02.22.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest serving woman in the United States Congress and member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after she cosponsored legislation to immediately terminate President Trump’s national emergency concerning the southern border of the United States. The legislation was introduced by Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20) and currently has 222 cosponsors. Last week, President Trump announced he would raid $3.5 billion in appropriated funds from the Department of Defense, funding which would otherwise go toward important military construction projects such as upgrading military hospitals, improving training facilities for troops, removing lead from military family housing, and making overseas bases more secure. Military construction projects in Ohio are at risk, specifically Wright-Patterson Air Force Base’s ADAL Intelligence Production Complex (NASIC) ($61,000,000), Camp Ravenna’s Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range ($7,400,000), Youngstown Air Reserve Station’s main gate relocation ($8,800,000), and upgrades to the Mansfield Lahm Airport fire station ($13,000,000). President Trump has yet to announce which military construction projects will be gutted. “I’m not surprised President Trump would gut important military construction projects in order to circumvent Congress and build his ineffective border wall,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Throughout his campaign for the Presidency, and during his time in office, President Trump has promised time and again that Mexico would pay for the wall. Before he rushes to fulfill an ill-advised campaign promise few think will even work, the President should answer the question of just how it is we went from Mexico paying for his monument to depriving our military of its operational priorities to fund it. At best, this careless action to divert funds will leave thousands of military men and women in the lurch, at worst our national security and readiness of our troops will be put at risk.” “Today, I am cosponsoring legislation that would immediately terminate this so-called national emergency. This entire political exercise by President Trump is not only a blatant attempt to ignore the Constitution and usurp Congress’ power of the purse, it is also the latest example of President Trump’s disregard for good advice and of regular disrespect for the day to day work of our armed forces.” “The states and Congress are correct to challenge President Trump in court regarding his fake national emergency. I am confident the judiciary will find that President Trump lacks the authority to divert funds for a wall because it is Congress that controls such spending.” ###
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), joined by U.S. Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) and U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH), announced that the U.S. Navy has finalized the contract to build the USS Cleveland, a Freedom Variant Littoral Combat Ship, and will soon commence construction. The USS Cleveland will be built by Fincantieri Marinette Marine Corporation on the shores of the Great Lakes in Marinette, Wisconsin and will hold the hull number LCS 31. Over the past five years, Fincantieri Marinette has sub-contracted $14,562,573 to 14 Ohio contractors and suppliers. Upon the ship’s successful completion, the ship will be commissioned at the Port of Cleveland before joining its fleet in Mayport, Florida. “The USS Cleveland will not only honor the great city of Cleveland, it will also honor the brave servicemembers past and present who call the city home. It’s so fitting that this ship will be built on the shores of the Great Lakes, where many hardworking Ohioans are expected to contribute to the ship’s construction. When it comes to the security and defense of our great nation, the patriotic citizens of Ohio will always be there,” said Rep. Kaptur. “It’s fitting that the U.S. Navy chose Cleveland to represent American strength and resilience. Northeast Ohioans have a long, proud history of serving our country and this ship will pay tribute to our servicemembers, veterans and their families,” said Senator Brown. “I’m proud to see the Navy has named Littoral Combat Ship 31 after the great city of Cleveland. Our brave men and women of the United States Navy deserve the best, most advanced weapons systems in the world and this ship will be cutting edge, with state-of-the-art technology and weapons systems. LCS 31 will be fourth ship to bear the name of the great city of Cleveland, and we look forward to her christening in 2023,” said Senator Portman. “This fourth edition of the USS Cleveland will continue a long line of Navy warships that honor Cleveland, Ohio. I am proud that as one of the newest Littoral Combat Ships, the USS Cleveland will project American Naval might throughout the world and reflect the same great qualities of America’s heartland – strength, adaptability and tenacity,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “It is not a coincidence that this is the fourth time the Navy has chosen to name their newest combat ship after our city. Cleveland is a city full of proud, resilient people. Together, we thrive in the face of adversity, despite our individual circumstances. The U. S. Navy honors the patriotic and hard-working residents of our great city with the naming of the USS Cleveland – a great littoral combat ship,” said Rep. Fudge. “This is another step in bringing the future USS Cleveland to life with identifying the ship’s hull number of LCS 31. Our Navy has a long and storied history in and around the City of Cleveland and the Sailors of our future namesake will take on the tremendous task of carrying on a legacy of naval excellence, while maintaining the traditions and heritage that come with such distinction,” said Under Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly. Ohio contractors and suppliers who have worked with Fincantieri Marinette Marine Corporation in the past five years are: · WESCO Distribution Incorporated (Cincinnati) · The Hellan Strainer Company (Cleveland) · PBM Inc (Cleveland) · Lease Administration Center (Mason) · RFD Beaufort Inc (Canton) · ESMET Inc (Canton) · DFAS-CO JDCBB (Columbus) · Capital City Group Inc (Columbus) · Carlisle & Finch Co (Cincinnati) · HDT Engineering Services (Solon) · Acquisition Logistics Engineering (Columbus) · National Brass (Columbus) · Corrosion Fluid Products (Cincinnati) · Kaman Fluid Power LLC (Akron) ### kaptur.house.gov
02.15.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest serving woman in the United States Congress and Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced $29,400,000 in federal funds to expand conservation efforts across the Great Lakes region and improve the health of communities along Lake Erie. The federal funds will be administered through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for projects that will prevent the spread of harmful algal blooms (HABs) in Lake Erie, reduce the invasive Asian Carp population, and research the health effects from exposure to HABs and cyanobacteria toxins in deadly algal blooms. “I thank members of both parties who worked together to get these funds included in H.J.Res. 31,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Not only does this strong, bipartisan legislation fully fund the government through the end of the fiscal year, it also takes concrete steps to reign in the spread of deadly algal blooms and the invasive Asian carp population across the Great Lakes. The negative economic and environmental impact these species have on Lake Erie and its coastal communities cannot be overstated. I look forward to the good this funding will achieve for Lake Erie and our entire region.” Asian carp represent a serious economic and environmental threat to the Great Lakes. If this annual plight is not contained it will devastate our $7 billion fishing industry and equally important tourism industry. Harmful Algal blooms are a particularly dangerous problem for Western Lake Erie and the entire region. In 2014, a Harmful Algal Bloom caused a drinking water crisis in Toledo, Ohio which impacted more than 400,000 residents. The algal bloom lasted for three days after elevated concentrations of microcystins from the annually recurrent cyanobacterial bloom in Lake Erie were detected in the municipal water system. Rep. Kaptur has actively pursued improved federal responses to harmful algal blooms and Asian carp. She currently serves as co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives and represents a large portion of coastal Ohio along Lake Erie, the Great Lakes' largest fishery. Great Lakes provisions included in H.J.Res. 31: USGS: $8.4 million for research on containing and eradicating Asian carp from the Great Lakes USFWS: $11 million for Asian carp deterrence controls and contract fishing EPA: $5 million for research grants promoting scientific progress towards preventing and controlling HABs NOAA: $5 million for coastal science and assessment of HABs Additional Background on H.J.Res. 31: Fully funds the government through the end of the fiscal year. Rejects the President’s demand for $5.7 billion for his wall by providing $1.375 billion for physical barriers with language specifying that new fencing is limited to currently deployed designs and specified locations – ruling out the President’s border wall proposal. Provides a path to reduce ICE detention beds and includes new biannual inspections of detention facilities, which will check the Trump Administration’s out-of-control deportation policy. Funds a more humane immigration system and makes key investments in national security. Delivers a 1.9 percent pay raise to federal workers and invests $3.8 billion in the Census. Builds safer communities with more than $3 billion for state and local law enforcement, including by addressing the opioid crisis and closing sexual assault kit backlogs. Rebuilds America’s infrastructure with $17 billion in funding for new infrastructure investments to improve our roads, bridges, highways, railways and mass transit. Supports small businesses by restoring and increasing investments in job-creating initiatives for economic and business development, including for minority and women-owned businesses, which the Trump Administration tried to eliminate or slash. Rejects the Trump Administration’s attacks on the environment by blocking deep cuts to initiatives to protect clean water, clean air and public lands and investing a total of $9.3 billion in the EPA and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. ### kaptur.house.gov
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s border emergency declaration: “I am deeply concerned by President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border as justification for building a wall. Let me be clear: the situation at the border is not a national emergency. Border crossings are down to one-fifth of what they were in 2000, apprehensions are at their lowest level in more than four decades, and many of those crossing the border are women and children who do not pose a threat to national security. A wall does not protect the most vulnerable points on the southern border, which are the ports of entry,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Furthermore, declaring a national emergency will endanger the health and well-being of our communities and hurt the readiness and safety of our troops. We cannot allow the President to steal funds from the Army Corps of Engineers intended for urgently-needed civil works projects, including life-saving flood prevention projects across America and reconstruction efforts for the communities in Puerto Rico, Texas, USVI, and Florida that were devastated by recent hurricanes. We also cannot allow the President to pick the pockets of DOD, canceling high-priority military construction in communities at home and abroad, thereby eroding training, readiness, and quality of life for our troops.” “Past national security emergencies have involved hurricanes, wildfires, hostage crises, epidemics and public health emergencies and terrorist attacks posing grave and immediate risk to American lives. The situation at the border clearly falls short.” ### kaptur.house.gov
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), alongside Representatives John Rutherford (FL-4), Tim Ryan (OH-13), and Derek Kilmer (WA-6), introduced the bipartisan Veterans’-Specific Education for Tomorrow’s Health Professionals Act of 2019. The bill would create a three year pilot program at a minimum of five Veteran Health Administration (VHA) medical centers to give undergraduates enrolled in pre-health programs the opportunity to gain clinical observation experience. Students would earn a deeper understanding of veterans’ specific health needs and experiences and in the process create a viable pipeline of future VHA physicians and medical professionals. The program would prioritize students specializing in health professions with an identified staffing shortage, as well as first generation college students, students referred by minority-serving institutions, and veterans. “Congress has a duty to ensure that our veterans, those who sacrificed so much for our country and for the liberty we all enjoy, receive the highest quality health care from the most highly trained health professionals. This bill furthers that effort,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense legislation so we may send it to the President’s desk without delay.” “Since being elected to Congress, one of my top priorities has been to ensure that our nation’s veterans have access to quality health care,” said Rep. Rutherford. “The VET HP Act is one tool we can use to help create a pipeline of health professionals that both our VA and private hospitals desperately need. I would like to thank my colleague Representative Kaptur for her continued leadership, and I look forward to working with her on this issue.” “This bill helps us move forward on two big priorities,” said Rep. Kilmer. “First, it extends opportunities to more students who aspire to become future health professionals, particularly those looking to serve in underserved areas. Second, it alleviates the shortage of doctors and other health professionals at the VA, helping to ensure that those who serve get the care they’ve earned. I’m grateful for Rep. Kaptur’s leadership on this legislation, and I’m very proud to support it.” “The VET HP Act would strengthen recruiting of desperately-needed medical professionals to the VA,” said Rep. Ryan. “Not only would it build a bridge between civilian and military communities, but this legislation would increase opportunities for our students to gain valuable experience in the medical field and connect undergraduate students with our nation’s heroes. And this exposure ultimately leads to a better understanding of how to care for our veterans’ health needs.” The Veterans’-Specific Education for Tomorrow’s Health Professionals Act previously passed the House of Representatives on September 24, 2018 and has been endorsed by the American Legion and Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA). ### kaptur.house.gov
02.13.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, held a public oversight hearing to explore the successes, challenges, and innovations of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Weatherization Assistance Program (WAP). Committee members heard from weatherization experts at the local, state, and federal levels. The hearing can be viewed here. WAP works to ensure the health and safety of low-income and middle class households by increasing the energy efficiency of their homes and reducing energy costs. Through DOE funding, WAP provides weatherization services to 35,000 homes each year and supports 8,500 jobs. Through weatherization improvements and upgrades, households save on average $283 or more every year. Since the program began in 1976, WAP has helped improve the lives of than 7 million families through weatherization services. “Today’s oversight hearing could not have come at a more critical time for the tens of thousands of Americans who rely on DOE’s Weatherization Assistance Program each year,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Last week, it was colder in parts of the Midwest than it was in Antarctica, and if it weren’t for WAP, many low-income and middle-class Americans would not have been able to sufficiently weatherize their homes and keep themselves and their families safe. The WAP mission is about more than helping Americans cut down on the cost of energy, it is about saving lives. Despite misguided attempts to gut the program, WAP has successfully accomplished their vital mission for over 40 years. It is our job to ensure that WAP remains strong for the next 40 years.” Rep. Kaptur Opening Statement As Prepared For Delivery The Subcommittee will come to order. Welcome everyone to our second hearing of the new Congress. Thank you all for coming and I want to especially thank all of the witnesses here today. We appreciate your understanding and flexibility in rescheduling this hearing. Last week our hearing focused on energy trends and future outlook – which offered a 30,000 foot perspective of our country’s past, present, and future energy needs. This week we will do the opposite – take a deep dive into one specific program at the Department of Energy that has been hard at work BTU-tifying America for over 4 decades. DOE’s Weatherization program has a direct, positive impact on the lives and pocketbooks of every day Americans, particularly elderly and low-income Americans, spanning all 50 states, U.S. territories, and Native American Tribes. Just two weeks ago, it was colder in the Midwest than on the surface of Mars or throughout the Artic. And the data is clear – according to the CDC, weather-related death rates were 2 to 7 times as high in low-income counties as in high-income counties. Additionally, poorer households rely on alternative temperature regulating devices such as space heaters, which according to the National Fire Protection Association, cause about one third of all winter house fires and 80 percent of all winter fire deaths. This goes to show how crucial DOE’s Weatherization dollars are in ensuring low-income energy insecure families can protect themselves, their homes and mobile homes from the elements. This program was created after the 1973 oil crisis, when the price of oil quadrupled from $3 per barrel to nearly $12 per barrel, causing severe disruptions within our country. Low-income individuals, particularly in cold weather states who relied on oil to keep warm, suffered greatly. The Weatherization program has been a life saver. Since its first appropriation in 1977, the Weatherization program has made millions of homes energy efficient, resulting in an average of $283 in annual energy cost savings per weatherized unit. It was estimated that over a 20 year lifetime, the program would save the equivalent of 12 million barrels of oil. Because investments in weatherization pay off, it is a tragedy that this Administration continually targets this program for cuts. For each of the last two fiscal years, this Administration has proposed to zero out this important program. And sadly, I expect the forthcoming budget to again propose to eliminate this program. In 1983, the program received $473 million in 2010 dollars. Since then, this program has been on a downward curve in terms of funding. This fiscal year, the program received only $266 million. Despite these funding challenges, as of 2012, 3.2 million units have been weatherized, averaging about 110,000 units per year. We will hear today from Terry Jacobs of the Great Lakes Community Action Partnership in Toledo, Ohio who can attest to the many benefits of this program across Ohio. We will also hear from Michael Furze from the Washington State Department of Commerce who will speak to the health benefits of weatherizing homes – another example of how this program saves lives. Annamaria Garcia from DOE will give us some background and history. In looking at this history, it takes me back to my service in the Carter Administration, where I worked on housing and neighborhood revitalization efforts. The Weatherization program was still new at the time, but it has become clear that weatherization is a significant tool in a tool box with unrealized potential that can be used to help lift struggling families and neighborhoods out of poverty by a focus on the cost of energy. As successful as this program has been, there is always room for improvement and innovation. Amy Klusmeier from the National Association for State Community Services Program actually began her career on a weatherization crew, Amy will talk about what happens on the ground, at all levels, and how the program can be improved. I want to again thank our witnesses for their testimony today, and we look forward to hearing from you. I’d like to turn now to our Ranking Member, Mr. Simpson for any opening remarks. Witnesses Annamaria Garcia Director Weatherization and Intergovernmental Programs Office U.S. Department of Energy Amy Klusmeier Weatherization Assistance Program Director National Associations for State Community Services Program Michael Furze Assistance Director Energy Division Washington State Department of Commerce Terry Jacobs Director Housing and Energy Great Lakes Community Action Partnership (GLCAP) ###
02.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement in response to the passing of Congressman Walter Jones: “I am heartbroken by the passing of my beloved friend and colleague Congressman Walter Jones of North Carolina,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I thank the people of North Carolina’s 3rd Congressional District for sending such an honorable and dignified gentleman to the House of Representatives for over two decades. I can’t think of anyone who fought harder for veterans or those in our military than Walter. He was a man of conscience and an astute and inspiring legislator. My prayers are with Walter’s loving family as they walk through these difficult days.” ###
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement in response to the passing of Congressman John Dingell: “Congressman and gentleman John Dingell, giant of a human being, enduring patriot, beloved friend and colleague, legendary lawmaker, and proud Dean of the U.S. House of Representatives, has risen from us to fly with the eagles,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The citizens of Ohio join me in expressing deepest condolences to his loving, devoted spouse Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, his family, friends, colleagues, and his constituents whom he represented so honorably and fought for so fiercely.” “His enduring legacy lives on across our nation, in every family that receives Medicare coverage, in every national wildlife refuge and fishing grounds, in our thriving automotive industry, in cleaner water and cleaner air, and in the example he set for exemplary service in the United States Congress as its longest serving Member in history. What a rare privilege it has been to have known and served with this great public servant.” ###
02.07.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, held a public hearing to examine and stress the importance of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) investment in energy innovation. The hearing included a discussion of the changing nature of America’s energy demands, including past, present, and future energy trends. The Subcommittee heard testimony from energy experts representing a wide variety of sectors, offering valuable governmental, business, and global perspectives. The hearing will assist the Subcommittee as it prepares the Fiscal Year 2020 Energy and Water Development appropriations bill. The hearing can be viewed here. “I’m so pleased that today’s hearing was productive, practical and useful for the Subcommittee,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I thank our incredible witnesses who took time out of their busy schedules to discuss the importance of investment in American energy innovation.” “The way our country produces and invests in energy isn’t only important to the success of our economy and security of our homeland, it essential to sustaining life on Earth as we know it. Today, we took important steps to ensure that the Subcommittee has the information it needs to make wise investment decisions, ensuring Congress is prepared to put the health and longevity of our communities and planet first, increase funding for renewable energy programs and research, and vigorously defend our priceless natural resources from contamination and the increasing threats of climate change.” Rep. Kaptur Opening Statement As Prepared For Delivery Good morning. The Subcommittee will come to order as we begin our first hearing in what promises to be a very busy, and I hope productive, year. I’d like to welcome our new and returning members to the subcommittee. We are thrilled to have each of you representing very unique and diverse segments of America’s landscape. Energy is essential to sustaining life on earth, to driving our economy and the millions of jobs associated with it, and to assuring our freedom. We begin our work this Congress by looking at how much energy out nation produces and consumes currently, how that has changed over the last five decades, and what prospects look like for the future. After World War II, the U.S. began consuming more energy than we could produce domestically. Our nation increased imports of energy, creating dangerous economic vulnerabilities and strategic dependencies on other countries. The harsh reality of that dependency struck our homeland hard with the Arab oil embargoes of the 1970’s. Our economy was walloped by America’s reliance on imported oil. President Carter’s foresight, along with congressional leadership, created the Department of Energy in 1977 to propel our nation on a challenging path to become energy independent. Investing in research and development has been foundational to that strategic objective, but we have just begun to set a path toward permanent energy security. For example, DOE helped develop the drilling and extraction technologies credited for the recent growth in domestic oil and gas production. And today, our nation produces over 90% of our current energy needs as a result of progress on all energy horizons. There are new challenges to meet the goals of energy security and sustainability, including: Increasing demand from enormous world population growth; Continuing industrialization globally; Depletion of finite, traditional sources of energy; and The consequences of environmentally damaging energy sources, including fossil fuels. Fortunately, a sustainable energy supply and clean energy vision combines perfectly with the need to address the climate crisis. The future of our planet ecosystem and the lives of billions around the globe are depending on a shared vision of a livable future. DOE, with the finest scientists in the world, has been driving innovation and partnering with the private sector to achieve continuing and significant reductions in the cost of clean energy. For example, First Solar – with more than 17 gigawatts of cadmium telluride solar modules sold worldwide – was born in my district at the University of Toledo, thanks to the genius of Dr. Harold McMaster and Dr. Norm Nitschke. This was made possible by a partnership with DOE. So, how do we achieve the interdependent goals of energy independence, reducing pollution, and creating jobs? We deliver new technologies that are better and cheaper than their 20th century alternatives. That means we must provide robust, stable federal support for energy R&D at the DOE. This won’t be easy—we are still facing sequestration with no budget deal in place for the next two years yet—but I am committed to working to ensure continued progress in these important areas. In closing, our nation must keep investing in energy solutions, making them better and more affordable, reaching more people in more places. I look forward to hearing from our expert witnesses who can frame the context of our work. Let us now turn to our able Ranking Member Mike Simpson for his opening statement. Witnesses The Honorable Linda Capuano Administrator Energy Information Administration Dr. Jay Hakes Former Administrator Energy Information Administration Author of A Declaration of Energy Independence Ethan Zindler Head of Americas and Policy Analysis Bloomberg New Energy Finance Ms. Amy Myers Program Director for Energy Security and Climate Change Council on Foreign Relations Mr. Matt Sonnesyn Vice President for Infrastructure, Energy, & Environment Business Roundtable ### kaptur.house.gov
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Congressman Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), and Congressman Jared Golden (ME-02) responded to President Trump’s State of the Union speech in which he praised his NAFTA 2.0 agreement. The text of the agreement—which many House Democrats have urged needs to be changed to address issues on prescription drug costs, labor and environmental standards, and outsourcing incentives—was signed by all three nations on November 30, 2018. “For President Trump to declare victory on trade is dishonest and premature,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “Since the President took office, thousands of manufacturing workers across the heartland, including in my northern Ohio district, have been idled or laid off from their jobs in important keystone industries such as auto and steel as a result of senseless tariffs, closed off markets, and bad trade deals like NAFTA, while trade deficits increase. The American people deserve a fair trade agreement that brings jobs back, raises wages, improves working standards, and creates opportunities for workers in our communities. I stand ready to work with anyone who shares that same commitment. For the past two years I have urged the President to work closely with Congress to renegotiate NAFTA, there is no better time for collaboration to find a NAFTA 2.0 solution that benefits workers across our continent.” “With a national audience watching, President Trump failed to move the needle on the changes necessary to protect American workers and consumers in his NAFTA 2.0 agreement,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “Democrats would be willing to support a deal that puts working people first by ending outsourcing incentives and sets forth a trade template that supports American workers. However, the text is simply not there yet. As it stands, this deal locks in monopoly rights for Big Pharma, effectively ensuring that drug prices will remain high by providing giveaways to pharmaceutical companies. If the President is serious about reducing the cost of prescription drugs, this issue must be addressed. This provision—along with strong, enforceable labor and environmental provisions that ensure workers are paid a fair wage and environmental concerns are addressed—will require changes to the core of the agreement. I appreciate the work United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has put in throughout this process, and I look forward to continuing discussions on making these important changes to support American workers and their families.” “While I continue to be supportive of renegotiating NAFTA, what I have seen so far does not do enough to protect the hardworking men and women of my district,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “For far too long, I have seen firsthand how unfair trade agreements have harmed our manufacturing industry in Ohio and across the United States. Just this week the GM plant in my district started its first round of layoffs. I join with my colleagues in urging that a new NAFTA deal must protect workers’ rights and freedoms, create strong environmental standards, include substantive provisions to end outsourcing incentives, strengthen enforcement mechanisms, and increase access to affordable prescription drugs.” “Last night, President Trump called on Democrats to work with him on prescription drug reform,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “He also asked us to support NAFTA 2.0. What he failed to say is that these things are fundamentally at odds with each other. NAFTA 2.0, as written, will keep prescription drug costs high, and Americans will get poorer and sicker, as a result. Worse, it would tie Congress’ hands and prevent us from addressing the issue of drug costs. The President must re-open NAFTA 2.0 and work with House Democrats to ensure the new NAFTA works for working families in America.” “NAFTA has caused harm to our workers and our manufacturing industries. So I welcomed a renegotiation that makes meaningful reforms for American workers and families,” said Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. “The jury is out on whether Trump’s deal will bring jobs back to the United States. But this administration must work with House Democrats to improve labor standards and enforceability in the agreement before it can be considered for approval.” “I agree with the president that NAFTA has failed working Americans, but his NAFTA 2.0 proposal is more of the same,” said Congressman Jared Golden. “Putting a new paint job on the old NAFTA won’t work. Without significant changes to this proposal, Maine will see the last two decades repeated: closed mills, outsourced jobs, and stagnant wages. If the president is serious about protecting American jobs, I’ll work with him to overhaul NAFTA so that it defends Maine workers and forces Canada and Mexico to play by the rules.” ### kaptur.house.gov
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest serving woman in Congress and senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the State of the Union address: “Time and again, President Trump has told working families in my part of the country that he’ll stand up for them and put their interests first, yet whether it’s on trade, infrastructure, tackling the opioid crisis, prescription drug costs, or effective border security, President Trump has not only failed to deliver on their behalf, he has pushed policies that have actively hurt them,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Tonight we heard more of the same. Ohioans deserve better.” “Furthermore, President Trump’s infatuation with an expensive and ineffective border wall is a disservice to hardworking Americans across the country. As a nation, our focus should be on improving the lives of low-income and middle class Americans, bringing good jobs back to our communities, and implementing trade practices that effectively raise wages, improve working standards, and create opportunity. The border wall is an unfortunate distraction from that mission.” ###
01.31.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest serving woman in the United States Congress and senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, has introduced three pieces of legislation to stem the flow of dark money into our elections, increase transparency in our electoral process, and restore control over our Democracy back to the American people: “Out-of-control campaign spending in U.S. elections has brought troubling consequences on the state of governance in the U.S. and seriously impacted the confidence of voters in the integrity of our elections,” said Rep. Kaptur. “If we are to restore the American people’s faith in our democratic process, then we must take meaningful steps to reform our campaign finance system. I urge my colleagues to stand with the people, not major corporations or wealthy donors, and support this common sense legislation.” Congresswoman Kaptur introduced H.J Res. 39, a Constitutional Amendment to nullify Citizens United v. FEC and grant Congress and the States the power to establish limits on contributions and expenditures in elections for public office. Additionally, the amendment concludes that First Amendment protections do not apply to the political speech of corporations and other business organizations with respect to the disbursement of funds in connection with public elections. Congresswoman Kaptur also introduced H.Con.Res 11, a resolution to express the sense of Congress that the Supreme Court misinterpreted the First Amendment to the Constitution in the case of Buckley v. Valeo, which equated campaign spending with free speech and cleared the way for foreign and special interests to funnel dark money through 501(c)(4) organizations. Buckley v. Valeo failed to recognize the corrosive effect unlimited campaign spending has on our electoral process and in order to secure free speech as a right of the people rather than corporations this misinterpretation must be reversed. Congresswoman Kaptur’s third bill, H.R. 896, the Fairness in Political Advertising Act, would require television broadcasting stations to make available two hours of free advertising broadcast time in each even-numbered year to each qualified political candidate in a statewide or national election. This would help level the playing field for viable candidates running against campaigns bankrolled by special interests. ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), the longest serving woman in Congress and senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, joined the Chairman of the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee, John B. Larson (CT-01), in introducing H.R. 860, the Social Security 2100 Act, a bill that increases Social Security’s vital benefits while making the system financially strong throughout the 21st century. The legislation was introduced with 203 cosponsors. “Social Security is the bedrock earned benefit that underpins retirement security in this country,” said Rep. Kaptur. “It is a benefit that workers have earned, and paid for, with every paycheck. With the Social Security 2100 Act, we can improve benefits for millions of Americans while preserving Social Security for generations to come. I thank Congressman Larson for his leadership on this very important issue.” “Social Security is not an entitlement – it’s the insurance Americans have paid for through a lifetime of work to fund retirement, disability, and survivor benefits,” said Rep. Larson. “The Social Security 2100 Act takes common sense steps to increase benefits and to make the system financially secure for the next 75 years and beyond. Social Security is the most successful program in American history, it is time to improve it for the future.” The Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 860 provides the following: An across-the-board benefit increase for current and new beneficiaries An improved cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) that takes into account the true costs incurred by seniors A stronger minimum benefit, so someone who works their whole life does not retire into poverty A tax cut for over 12 million Social Security recipients by eliminating the tax on their benefits Social Security is the most important source of retirement income for 4 out of 5 seniors. It also provides protections to disabled workers and families who have lost a breadwinner. With common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can improve benefits while ensuring Social Security remains strong throughout the century. There are currently 203 cosponsors of the Social Security 2100 Act. ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, announced her nominations for candidates from Ohio’s 9th Congressional District to the nation’s leading service institutions: the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. “I am extraordinarily honored to nominate such an outstanding group of dedicated and accomplished young people from northern Ohio to our nation’s venerated service academies,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Our service academies have a reputation for cultivating some of the greatest leaders in our country’s history. This year’s nominees were selected not only for their academic achievement, but for their demonstrated leadership abilities and commitment to service. I look forward to their future success and thank them for their commitment to serve our nation in uniform.” A Citizen Advisory Committee formed by Rep. Kaptur selected the nominees from an extensive pool of qualified applicants. The Committee’s decisions were based on criteria including the students’ leadership potential, academic record, and overall achievement. Final acceptance is determined by each service academy. The United States service academies are some of the most highly respected institutions of higher learning in the world and offer young Americans the opportunity to serve our country as commissioned officers in the United States Armed Services upon graduation. Rep. Kaptur’s nominees are listed below by their High School and Service Academies, followed by individuals named as alternates to each academy: Douglass Poole (Berea-Midpark High School) – U.S. Air Force Academy Michael Larsen (Rocky River High School) – U.S. Military Academy Christian Velez (Amherst Steele High School) – U.S. Naval Academy Samuel Murray (Bay High School) – U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Air Force Academy: Erin Davenport, Saint Joseph Academy Scott Iliff, Amherst High School Dominic Kendrioski, Saint John’s Jesuit High School Michael Larsen, Rocky River High School Robert Lawson, University of Toledo Jalen Rahter, Ramstein High School, Pfalz, Germany Kyle Richards, Culver Academy Alec Thompson, University of Toledo Christian Velez, Amherst Steele High School U.S. Military Academy: Katherine Baeppler, Bay High School Samuel Murray, Bay High School Alec Thompson, University of Toledo Scott Iliff, Amherst High School Samuel Marshall, St. Edward High School Bridget Bishop, Notre Dame Academy Asa Kempton, Elyria Catholic High School Patrick Smyth, Dubuque Fighting Saints (USHL) U.S. Naval Academy Katherine Baeppler, Bay High School Bridget Bishop, Notre Dame Academy Alec Thompson, University of Toledo Scott Iliff, Amherst High School Asa Kempton, Elyria Catholic High School Samuel Murray, Bay High School Marlena Noeth, Saint Joseph Academy Robert Prusha, Avon Lake high School Adler Vasiloff, Naval Academy Prep School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Scott Iliff, Amherst High School Bridget Bishop, Notre Dame Academy Alec Thompson, University of Toledo ###
01.28.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest-serving woman in U.S. House history and Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement following President Trump and Republicans’ decision to temporarily reopen the federal government after 35 days of the Trump Shutdown: “For 35 days, President Trump used the suffering of 800,000 hardworking government employees and 1.2 million contractors as a bargaining chip to force the American people to pay for an ineffective border wall,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Today’s action is identical in form and function to what was suggested to the President back on December 21st, 2018. At a cost of tens of millions of dollars a day, the unnecessary, tragic, and dangerous Trump Shutdown accomplished nothing except to inflict great misery and pain upon Americans across the country, including in northern Ohio. “I look forward to working closely with my colleagues to pass a long term funding agreement that will keep the government open and honor our promise to treat our public servants with the dignity and respect they deserve.” ###
01.23.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest-serving woman in the 116th Congress and Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after she was elected by her Democratic colleagues to serve as the first woman to chair the influential House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “It is an honor to assume the important role of Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development,” said Rep. Kaptur. “As Chairwoman, I will work closely with my colleagues to fund innovative programs at the Department of Energy and the jobs that comes from it, shore up our energy and water infrastructure to bolster trade, and promote a comprehensive approach to the many challenges facing our Great Lakes – the largest collection of fresh water on the planet. Our efforts will also serve as an important check against the shortsighted efforts to gut the innovation-driven Department of Energy and its core programs. “Above all else, I will fight to improve the lives of the American people by implementing an agenda that will put the health and longevity of our communities and planet first, increase funding for renewable energy programs and research, and vigorously defend our priceless natural resources from contamination and the increasing threats that climate change presents.” The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development has jurisdiction over funding levels for the Department of Energy, Office of Civil Defense, United States Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, and related agencies such as the Appalachian Regional Commission, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Water Technical Review Board, the Tennessee Valley Authority and other regional authorities. As Chairwoman, Rep. Kaptur will guide the Subcommittee’s agenda and help craft annual funding bills for the departments, agencies, and vital programs under its jurisdiction. Rep. Kaptur strongly believes in the good that robust investment in these agencies can achieve for Americans across the country, especially in her northern Ohio district. Fostering job growth in renewable energy research, protecting our precious natural resources such as Lake Erie, and supporting U.S.-based manufacturing through investment in our nation’s energy infrastructure and waterways, especially those connecting communities in the Great Lakes Region to the Atlantic Ocean, will be among Rep. Kaptur’s highest priorities. In the 116th Congress, Rep. Kaptur will also serve as a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Defense, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and Central Intelligence Agency, as well as the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Commerce, Department of Justice, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the National Science Foundation. ###
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and a senior member of the House Defense Appropriations Committee released the following statement regarding the deaths and injuries sustained by U.S. service members in the U.S.-patrolled Syrian city of Manbij. The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the blast. “The President of United States and his chief National Security Advisor John Bolton —neither of whom are war tested veterans, both who dodged the draft— cannot carelessly and unilaterally change strategy in a war zone, like Syria, without great risk to human life. Over the objections of all his top military advisors, President Trump ceded the field to uncertainty. He gave succor to and emboldened the enemy. He risked the precious lives of our U.S. military personnel stationed around the globe, but most immorally in war ravaged Syria. Today's tragic loss of Americans’ lives in Syria, along with their comrades in arms in a dangerous conflict zone, should heavily weigh on the conscience of the President based on his orders.” ###
01.15.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and co-chair of the Congressional Poland Caucus today made a statement regarding the murder of Mayor Pawel Adamowicz of Gdansk, Poland. Gdansk has been a sister city of Cleveland, Ohio since 1990. “As co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Poland Caucus, it is with a truly heavy heart that I rise this morning to express deepest sympathy to our Polish ally, and its countrymen and women on the brutal slaying of visionary Gdansk Mayor Pawel Adamowicz. I hold profound respect for his dedication, perseverance, and honorable service to his community and nation. He loved Gdansk as a beacon for a free Poland and gave his life to it. What a deep tragedy this is for his grieving family and associates, and for the Polish nation. Far too much blood has been shed on Polish soil for the world to ignore such a heinous crime. I visited Gdansk in both 2009 and 2013. Through these visits I gained an even deeper respect for its noble history — including as the location where Nazi shelling at Westerplatte began the cataclysmic invasion of Poland starting World War II. Then more recently Gdansk’s redemptive, transformative role in world history with the courageous Solidarnosc worker strikes that trip-wired the collapse of tyranny imposed by the Soviet Union. In our modern era, Gdansk is formally partnered with the city of Cleveland, Ohio in a Sister-Cities relationship. As part of my own of my own Congressional district, I am deeply honored and proud of this exchange. In Mayor Adamowicz’s memory, I and this Congress stands ready to strengthen this alliance of liberty. In his memory, I will personally pursue an annual exchange in his name to our community our nation of young mentees who follow in his footsteps of pursuit of liberty. Let his death serve as a constant reminder of how precious freedom remains. I am certain Polish law enforcement officials will examine the circumstances surrounding the perpetrator’s actions with a diligent eye. They must ascertain whether any linkages with outside influence or propaganda that might have catalyzed this heinous crime exist. I speak of on behalf of thousands of Polish-Americans in my district, to remind all freedom-loving people that the United States stands with Poland at this hour of mourning. During these uncertain times, we must work to strengthen the transatlantic alliance through increased cultural and diplomatic exchange.”
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and Senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, yesterday joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) appropriations bill to remove all doubt that hard-working Ohioans will receive their tax refunds in full and on time. Each year, about 4,615,383 Ohio households receive an average tax return of about $2,518, which will remain in jeopardy as long as the President and Senate Republicans refuse to end the Trump Shutdown and fully re-open IRS. State-by-state data from the IRS can be found here. Earlier this week, after House Democrats announced plans to pass this bill, the Trump Administration suddenly reversed its previous announcement that the IRS is unable to issue tax refunds during a shutdown; and stated it will bring back some furloughed employees. However, the only way to prevent confusion and ensure that all Americans will receive their tax refunds without delay is to fully re-open the IRS and bring all IRS employees back to work. “There should be absolutely no confusion that Ohioans will get their tax refund in full and on time. Of course reopening the government is a first step,” said Kaptur. “On Day One of the new Congress, the House Democratic Majority took the first steps to restore certainty to people's lives by passing a complete funding package with Senate Republicans’ language to re-open government. Yet, Senate Republicans refused to bring that bill up for a vote. Now, over the coming days, Democrats will take action to re-open all government agencies that are shut by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills.” “The President needs to assure those on his side of the aisle who are waiting for his signal, that he will sign legislation to re-open the Department of the Treasury and the IRS as soon as the Senate passes this legislation,” continued Kaptur. “House Democrats believe in governing responsibly and will not allow hard-working Ohioans or the American people to be held hostage by the President’s reckless demands. We will continue to work to re-open government, and keep our promise to deliver progress for all Americans.” TRUMP SHUTDOWN IMPACTS: TAX REFUNDS IN JEOPARDY ACROSS THE COUNTRY STATE Number of Tax Filers Issued Tax Refunds Average Tax Refund Alabama 1,668,205 $2,784 Alaska 281,918 $2,815 Arizona 2,267,224 $2,659 Arkansas 1,003,069 $2,735 California 13,762,053 $2,912 Colorado 2,040,196 $2,645 Connecticut 1,412,536 $3,113 Delaware 369,244 $2,796 D.C. 281,001 $2,949 Florida 7,952,393 $2,924 Georgia 3,644,655 $2,814 Hawaii 541,506 $2,554 Idaho 570,841 $2,438 Illinois 5,024,942 $2,900 Indiana 2,601,369 $2,602 Iowa 1,153,791 $2,589 Kansas 1,057,376 $2,646 Kentucky 1,605,908 $2,641 Louisiana 1,633,325 $3,087 Maine 515,097 $2,321 Maryland 2,350,025 $2,863 Massachusetts 2,728,086 $2,864 Michigan 3,816,778 $2,556 Minnesota 2,135,303 $2,515 Mississippi 1,031,115 $2,904 Missouri 2,249,039 $2,592 Montana 379,672 $2,372 Nebraska 720,503 $2,599 Nevada 1,123,339 $2,817 New Hampshire 564,292 $2,587 New Jersey 3,517,476 $3,036 New Mexico 733,125 $2,637 New York 7,812,711 $3,077 North Carolina 3,616,657 $2,619 North Dakota 282,131 $2,954 Ohio 4,615,383 $2,518 Oklahoma 1,317,152 $3,074 Oregon 1,450,741 $2,385 Pennsylvania 5,113,174 $2,643 Rhode Island 439,336 $2,648 South Carolina 1,736,382 $2,561 South Dakota 326,744 $2,620 Tennessee 2,494,470 $2,713 Texas 10,221,525 $3,189 Utah 1,047,151 $2,663 Vermont 257,738 $2,353 Virginia 3,161,298 $2,761 Washington 2,790,617 $2,661 West Virginia 655,678 $2,631 Wisconsin 2,258,571 $2,429 Wyoming 219,062 $2,945 United States 121,244,896 $3,186 Source: IRS, SOI Tax Stats – State Data FY 2017. November 15, 2018. ###
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Annie Kuster (NH-02), and Donald Norcross (NJ-01) are leading more than sixty of their colleagues in calling on Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer to prioritize policies that will help tackle the opioid epidemic. A recent report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found a dramatic increase in deaths nationally due to synthetic opioids such as fentanyl and increases in overdose deaths in many of the hardest hit states. “Despite previous Congressional efforts to provide more resources to combat the opioid crisis to states and communities across this nation, there is much more to do,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “The opioid epidemic must be a top priority for the 116th Congress, as we demonstrate our commitment to innovative solutions and creative resources to counter this complex crisis. To build on local, regional, or state successes, it is vital we prioritize substantial and comprehensive measures and strategies. Democratic Leadership in the House has shown early attention to these matters and we look forward to an aggressive agenda.” “I’m proud of our efforts to support those on the frontlines of the opioid crisis, but our work is not done,” said Congresswoman Annie Kuster. “In the 116th Congress, I’m committed to building on our success and continuing to advance policies that will save lives and rebuild communities. It’s imperative that Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer prioritize this issue and empower the new Congress to take additional action to address the opioid epidemic.” “Over 3,000 people died from overdoses in New Jersey in 2018 – and, sadly, that’s a new record. Every single year we’re losing more Americans to the opioid epidemic than we did in all of the Vietnam War. It’s clear we need to work together, address the many different aspects of this crisis and implement a variety of tactics to help those suffering from the disease of addiction," said Congressman Donald Norcross. “We took positive steps in the last Congress to help our friends and neighbors. Now, we need to build upon those successes and vote to increase mental health and addiction funding because one preventable death is too many.” “While Congress passed several bills to increase access to treatment and recovery, improve state prescription drug monitoring programs, increase access to medication assisted treatment, support research efforts, and expand availability of naloxone, many of our states are seeing an increase in overdose death rates,” wrote the members. “At a time when our state and local partners are begging for federal assistance to combat the opioid crisis in their communities, Congress must answer the call through increased resources, creative solutions, and with more legislative staff. Dedicated staff across House committees capable of analyzing both the larger federal need and specifics from states and districts is necessary at this point.” Kuster, Kaptur and Norcross are joined in their call by Representatives Joyce Beatty (OH-3), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Brendan Boyle (PA-2), Matt Cartwright (PA-8), Conor Lamb (PA-17), Michael F. Doyle (PA-18), Susan Wild (PA-7), Chrissy Houlahan (PA-6), Madeleine Dean (PA-4), John Yarmuth (KY-3), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2), Chris Pappas (NH-1), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Jared Golden (ME-2), Jim McGovern (MA-2), Lori Trahan (MA-3), Ayanna Pressley (MA-4), Seth Moulton (MA-6), Bill Keating (MA-9), Haley Stevens (MI-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Andy Kim (NJ-3), Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5), Tom Malinowski (NJ-7), Albio Sires (NJ-8), Bill Pascrell (NJ-9), Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), David Price (NC-4), Alma Adams (NC-12), John B. Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Jim Himes (CT-4), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At Large), Al Lawson (FL-5), Stephanie Murphy (FL-7), Darren Soto (FL-9), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Debbie Wasserman Shultz (FL-23), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Andre Carson (IN-7), Tom O'Halleran (AZ-1), Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-2), Greg Stanton (AZ-4), Ruben Gallego (AZ-7), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), David Trone (MD-6), Jamie Raskin (MD-8), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-At Large), David Cicilline (RI-1), James Langevin (RI-2), Jim Cooper(TN-5), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Peter Welch (VT-At Large), Ben McAdams (UT-4). The full text of the letter is available HERE and below: Dear Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer: As our Congress enters a transitional period and Democrats re-gain the Majority, we must make our top priorities known to our body of government and to the American people. While Congress passed several bills to increase access to treatment and recovery, improve state prescription drug monitoring programs, increase access to medication assisted treatment, support research efforts, and expand availability of naloxone, many of our states are seeing an increase in overdose death rates. Recently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released the final 2017 data from the National Vital Statistics System regarding mortality that tells a dire story of the tragic human toll of this crisis. Between 2016 and 2017, the age-adjusted rate of drug overdose deaths increased by 9.6%. In 2017, there were 70,237 drug overdose deaths. Of that number, 47,600 were opioid overdose deaths. Also, drug overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids like fentanyl increased by 46% between 2016 and 2017. While this paints a bleak picture of the nation, several states experienced the brunt of the epidemic. According to the CDC, the following states experienced increases in overdose deaths between 2016 and 2017: • Ohio increased from 39.1 deaths per 100,000 to 46.3 deaths per 100,000 • Pennsylvania increased from 37.9 deaths per 100,000 to 44.3 deaths per 100,000 • Kentucky increased from 33.5 deaths per 100,000 to 37.1 deaths per 100,000 • West Virginia increased from 52 deaths per 100,000 to 57.8 deaths per 100,000 • Maine increased from 28.7 deaths per 100,000 to 34.4 deaths per 100,000 • Indiana increased from 24 deaths per 100,000 to 29.4 deaths per 100,000 • Delaware increased from 30.8 deaths per 100,000 to 37 deaths per 100,000 New Hampshire was the only state that experienced a decrease from 39 deaths per 100,000 in 2016 to 37 deaths per 100,000 in 2017, dropping the state out of the top five from 2016. In 2017, overdose death rates in 24 states surpassed the national average of 21.7 per 100,000. Those states and territories, excluding the 7 listed above, include Arizona, Connecticut, Washington, DC, Florida, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah, and Vermont. At a time when our state and local partners are begging for federal assistance to combat the opioid crisis in their communities, Congress must answer the call through increased resources, creative solutions, and with more legislative staff. Dedicated staff across House committees capable of analyzing both the larger federal need and specifics from states and districts is necessary at this point. People across this country are suffering and need more relief than our local governments can provide. As members from the states impacted by this crisis the most, we see people every day who need our help. We hope that you will take into consideration our proposal to make countering the opioid crisis a top priority for the 116th Congress. Sincerely, ###
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, will be sworn into the 116th Congress today by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Speaker Pelosi will conduct an individual ceremonial swearing-in ceremony for Rep. Kaptur following the en masse oath of office on the Floor of the House of Representatives at 12 noon. Rep. Kaptur is the longest-serving woman in U.S. House of Representatives history, achieving this milestone in March of 2018. A photo opportunity will be available with Speaker Pelosi and Rep. Kaptur to mark this historic occasion. A livestream will also be available for local television stations. Information is as follows: WHO: Speaker-designate Nancy Pelosi Members of the 116th Congress and their families WHAT: Ceremonial Swearing-in with Members of the 116th Congress WHEN: Thursday, January 3, at approximately 4:30 – 5:00 p.m. WHERE: Rayburn Room, H-207 United States Capitol Washington, D.C. NOTE: Livestream of the swearing-in ceremony will be available here. # # #
12.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on news that Republican leadership in the Senate would move forward with a continuing resolution that would provide short-term funding to nine cabinet agencies and several smaller departments through February 8, 2019. “In the final stretch, with both parties and both chambers of Congress within striking distance of an agreement that would provide long-term stability to the remaining unfunded government agencies, the Republican Majority has decided to shirk its responsibilities again,” said Kaptur. “Funding the government is one of Congress’s primary responsibilities and instead of abdicating this responsibility with a stop-gap measure that stretches the calendar out and kicks the can down the road, Congress should do its job for the American people.” ###
12.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congressman Dave Joyce (OH-14), Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Congressman Brian Mast (FL-18) wrote a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney urging the Trump Administration to fully fund all programs related to addressing harmful algal blooms in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2020 budget. “We write to respectfully request that you allocate robust funding in the President’s Fiscal Year 2020 budget request for programs that address a widespread and ever-increasing problem: toxic algal blooms, also called harmful algal blooms (HABs),” the Members wrote. “Toxic algae affect marine, coastal, estuarine, and freshwater systems in all 50 states and all U.S. territories. A strong investment in programs that address toxic algae will help protect economic activity, the health of millions of Americans, and our environment.” The letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 61 members. “To make the necessary progress toward understanding and addressing the significant and expanding threats that toxic algae pose to human health and our national economy, we ask that you prioritize a strong and coordinated federal response in this year’s budget request by including robust funding to support multi-investigator research programs for HAB-related work,” the Members concluded. Read the entire letter here: 12.15.18 FY20 Harmful Algal Bloom funding ltr to OMB.pdf ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Andy Harris (R-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a statement after the House of Representatives unanimously passed three Ukraine-related bills in the face of Russia’s military escalation in the Kerch Strait. “We applaud the passage of the H.Res. 1162, which condemns Russia’s brazen aggression against Ukrainian ships in the Kerch Strait. This same week, the House unanimously passed, H.Res.931, which recognizes the grave crime of the Holodomor Famine-Genocide against the Ukrainian people. We also applaud the passage of H.Res. 1035, which expresses the House’s unanimous opposition to Nord Stream II as a Russian ploy to weaponize energy against Ukraine. “These bills send a clear, bipartisan message to the Ukrainian people that we stand in strong solidarity against Russian aggression. We thank Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel for their continued leadership on these critical issues. “Tragically, Russian Dictator Vladimir Putin continues to test the resolve of NATO and the western alliance, and seeks to slowly but surely whittle away the Ukrainian people’s sovereignty and its democratic progress. History shows us that appeasement only emboldens dictators. “We urge the international community to raise the costs on Russia due to its escalation and aggression against the people of Ukraine.” ###
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after the passage of the bipartisan Farm Bill by the U.S. House of Representatives. The Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 passed the Senate yesterday and it now heads to the President’s desk. “One of our government’s most important duties is to ensure that our agriculture sector and our farmers have the resources they need to feed our nation,” said Kaptur. “I am pleased that a bipartisan agreement on the Farm Bill provides forward-thinking support for American producers through mandatory investments in research, urban agriculture and local and regional food systems.” Kaptur has pushed for a comprehensive effort to invest in urban agriculture through her bill, the Urban Agriculture Production Act, and was instrumental in making sure urban agriculture was a priority in this Farm Bill. In the bill, innovative and high-tech production will be supported by a newly created Office of Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production. The office will serve as a policy and program development hub for non-traditional operations. Additionally, the agreement continues conservation programming, especially important in the Western Lake Erie Watershed where such programs have been used to address nutrient run-off and control erosion. “Though this is a good step, we still have more work to do to improve water quality in Lake Erie and regional tributaries,” Kaptur continued. “Conservation programming remains a critical management tool as we work toward meeting our goals of healing Lake Erie.” “With this final bipartisan agreement Congress has provided stability to our farmers and businesses, fortifying our commitment to protecting our environment and making sure that families, and especially children who are struggling, don’t go hungry,” Kaptur concluded. Read more about the bill here. ###
12.10.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement after news the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) made two arrests involving potential terrorist activity in Northwest Ohio, including one potential attack on a Toledo synagogue. “I salute the FBI, the Toledo Police Department and our local law enforcement who fulfilled their sworn duty to uphold the U.S. Constitution and defend Americans from enemies both foreign and domestic,” said Kaptur. “Though some would politicize the FBI’s work, its noble motto of ‘Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity’ was on full display in Ohio today. A grateful region along with all liberty-loving citizens thank these brave men and women for their service in keeping us safe.” “Our community and nation cannot tolerate hate in any form. Hate destroys. It is un-American and indeed our Constitution guarantees freedom of religion and association. It imposes no mandated worship and that brilliant idea has helped preserve our Union to date. We must remain dedicated as defenders of liberty and be ever diligent to stamping out hate and bigotry wherever we see it,” Kaptur concluded. Read the details of the arrests from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Northern District of Ohio here and here. ###
12.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and Co-Chair of the Auto Caucus, today sent a letter with four of her colleagues to President Donald Trump formally asking him to visit the communities impacted by General Motors’ decision to idle several North America plants. The letter was signed by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03) and Rep.-Elect Andy Levin (MI-09). “Respectfully, we invite you to join us to visit the Lordstown Assembly, Warren Transmission, Brownstown Battery, Baltimore Operations and Detroit-Hamtramck plants, to meet the workers who will soon receive pink slips. This idling will impact over 14,000 workers, including the layoff of 3,300 production workers in the United States and 2,500 in Canada, and another 8,000 salaried employees,” the Members wrote. “We urge your Administration’s intervention in every manner possible to seek both short and long term remedies for these workers, the auto-part supplies that will also be impacted, and the communities sure to be severely impacted by these job losses,” the Members continued. “Our communities need deliverance on your promises to invest in and restore America’s manufacturing might and to put an end to the outsourcing of American jobs. We will work with you and your Administration to reinvest and modernize American auto manufacturing. Thank you for review of this urgent request,” the Members concluded. Read the full letter here: 12.7.18 OH & MI Pres. Invite to Tour Idled GM Facilities.pdf The letter comes after Kaptur, joined by several of her colleagues, held a press conference on November 29 and issued a call for immediate action from President Trump. Watch that press conference here. ###
12.06.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today announced a $434,739 National Institutes of Health research grant for the University of Toledo. The award is the first part of a five-year grant distributed by the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research that will go toward research to protect people against oral disease. “When we invest in scientific research, we can create healthier outcomes for the American people,” said Kaptur. “I applaud the efforts of the University of Toledo and the researchers doing this path-breaking work. Through federally funded research, Northwest Ohio is positioning itself as a leader in developing strategies that lead to improved health outcomes. As this important work continues, I’ll do everything I can in Washington to support our local research institutions.” Dr. Heather Conti, UT assistant professor of biological sciences, will investigate the role blood platelets play in the body’s natural defense against oral candidiasis, also known as thrush. Conti’s research is particularly aimed at helping cancer patients who are undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy, both of which can destroy mucous membranes in the mouth leading to patients developing painful and potentially serious fungal infections. “Unfortunately, many patients who develop this condition choose to forego their cancer treatment. It can actually have a direct link to cancer prognosis because the symptoms are too hard to deal with,” Conti said. “The immune response to oral candidiasis is quite complicated. If platelets play an important role, we need to understand that response. The hope would be to develop therapeutics that not only kill the fungus directly but can also bolster the immune response.” ###
12.03.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), as co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, today welcomed several members of the Ukrainian Parliament (Verkhovna Rada) to Northwest Ohio. The delegation was organized by the Open World Leadership Center in an effort to strengthen ties and exchange information between the United States and Ukraine. “It was truly a pleasure to welcome these representatives of democracy from Ukraine to Northwest Ohio,” said Kaptur. “We will continue to unite in our efforts to strengthen democracy against all enemies of liberty in Ukraine and across Europe, as well as to bring hope for a brighter, more democratic future for the Ukrainian people. I truly thank this delegation for taking the time to travel to Ohio to increase democratic and cultural exchange between our nations.” The visitors were Oleksandr Opanasenko, Ostap Yednak and Yuri Solovei. The group discussed combatting Russian aggression, including the recent crisis of Russia firing on Ukrainian ships and taking several Ukrainian soldiers hostage. Additionally, Kaptur and the members of parliament discussed ensuring the productive development of Ukrainian energy and agriculture sectors, especially among rural women.
12.01.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today released the following statement on the passing of President George Herbert Walker Bush: “With a heavy but grateful heart, our nation bows its head at this Thanksgiving and holiday season on the passing from this life of its distinguished and honorable patriot son, President George Herbert Walker Bush. “A family man, decorated World War II veteran and courageous pilot, he devoted his public life to our nation with honor and grace. Hailing from the privileged Ivy League class, he never exempted himself from duty’s call. “This brave and affable soul always chose the path that was required for our country’s sake, so often at great risk to himself as President, Vice President, Congressman, Ambassador, and CIA Director. “Our republic is truly blessed that a citizen of his stature and commitment stood fast at liberty’s side. May he, his departed spouse, Barbara, and their family be especially blessed now and always.” Kaptur and President George H.W. Bush sharing a happy moment in White House during her early service in Congress. This visit was related to her effort to pass legislation to mint World War II memorial coins to then help raise the initial $7 million in seed money to begin planning the WWII Memorial in Washington DC.
11.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and longest-serving woman in Congress, today released the following statement after President Trump signed a new trade agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada: “The same week General Motors announced the idling of five U.S. facilities and cutting 15,000 living wage jobs, including in Lordstown, Ohio, President Trump has claimed premature victory as U.S., Canadian and Mexican officials signed a tentative replacement for NAFTA. “This Administration’s rush to sign something, creates more uncertainty for working people who have long suffered under NAFTA. Congress will have the final say on trade but from where we stand today, President Trump’s campaign promises to working people and the reality of his NAFTA only reinforce this Administration’s standard: Say one thing, do another. “Globally, will we open closed markets of other nations? Will we equalize the negative impact of the value-added tax? Will tax policy stop favoring outsourcing? Most importantly, will Trump’s NAFTA do more for outsourcing and corporate profits than it does for the American worker? “Democrats look forward to hearings and oversight of how these questions will truly impact all Americans. “The American people are not interested in staged production signing ceremonies, they want an agreement that will create good paying jobs in America and heal economic injustices suffered for the past three decades.” ***VIDEO***: Additionally, Kaptur spoke on the House floor last night regarding the signing today. Watch that speech here and reply to this e-mail if you need a high-definition download: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4763341/ahead-trump-signing-nafta-20-kaptur-calls-continental-trade-deal-lifts-workers
11.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and longest-serving woman in Congress, today released the following statement on General Motors’ decision to idle several North American manufacturing plants. “Time and time again both the taxpayer and our workers have been asked to sacrifice for the good of the General Motors brand. This latest move from General Motors is an affront to that sacrifice,” said Kaptur. “For too long a rigged economic system highlighted by bad trade deals such as NAFTA and a tax system that incentivizes offshoring has stacked the deck of corporate power against the American worker. This Administration promised an end to it and has dragged its feet while more jobs hang in the balance. Enough is enough.” “Our effort to rescue the American auto industry secured automotive manufacturing even as some in Congress were willing to keep shipping it offshore. To keep good jobs here in the U.S., we need a just and accountable tax policy and we need to jettison trade deals that only serve to undermine a fair playing field for all workers,” Kaptur concluded. ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Andy Harris (R-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a statement rebuking the Russian Federation’s aggressive attack on Ukraine near the Kerch Strait in the Sea of Azov: “As co-chairs of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, we strongly condemn Russia’s dangerous naval assault on Ukrainian ships. This episode, as well as Russia’s blockade of Ukrainian ports, is a deeply disturbing sign of continued Russian aggression in its efforts to tighten its bloody grip and illegitimate occupation of the Crimean peninsula. “We join the international community and our NATO allies in resolute affirmation of the fact that Crimea and its surrounding waters belong to Ukraine. We call on Russian authorities, in accordance with international law, to cease any and all interference with access to Ukrainian ports and the Azov Sea. Russia must end this bloody and unjust occupation of Ukrainian sovereign territory.” Six soldiers were injured and three Ukrainian naval ships, along with the crew members, were captured. Read more about the attack here.
11.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, announced several investments from the fiscal year 2019 work plan from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) in Northern Ohio as well as the Soo Locks, which are critical for moving industrial materials across the Great Lakes. The Energy and Water Subcommittee oversees all spending by the Army Corps. “These investments are an important step toward modernizing our Great Lakes ports and waterway infrastructure,” said Kaptur. “Northern Ohio and our region are the agriculture and industrial center of the United States. These investments in critical infrastructure will fortify our commitment to creating good jobs and strengthening commerce across our Heartland.” Soo Locks – The work plan includes $32.4 million for work on a new lock. This money will allow the USACE to begin the initial work necessary to construct a second Poe-sized lock. The Soo Locks are the only waterway connection between Lake Superior and the other Great Lakes and the Saint Lawrence Seaway. Thus, it connects the mining of raw materials in the Iron Range of Minnesota—the source of nearly all domestic iron ore—to all the economic activity that flows from our steel industry and is critical to supplying our national defense needs. This new project will combine two of the oldest, smaller locks at the site into one large lock to complement the 1,200-foot Poe Lock which handles nearly all of the commercial freight. Port of Cleveland – The work plan includes an additional $8.4 million for annual dredging of the Cuyahoga River. Lorain Harbor – The work plan includes $2.9 million for maintenance of the breakwater. Toledo Harbor – The work plan includes $3.8 million for annual dredging of the Maumee River.
11.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation and longest-serving woman in the House, today released the following statement regarding her support for Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House: “As House Democrats weigh candidates for top leadership positions in the 116th Congress, Nancy Pelosi presents the broadest experience and soundest measure to be reelected Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, a position second-in-line to the Presidency. “Through wars, deep recessions, September 11 and other national and legislative challenges — time and again her leadership demonstrated putting the national interest first, grace under pressure, dogged dedication to assisting her colleagues and an openness to listening to all points of view. As she would advise ‘unity’ is its own message. “No possible candidate can match Nancy Pelosi’s indefatigable, consistent determination to restore a Democratic majority against tremendous odds. “At this critical juncture of restoring a balance of power in the Legislative branch of the federal government, our Caucus’ primary consideration should be supporting a proven Leader whose batting average cannot be matched.” ###
10.21.2018	Toledo, OH - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the House’s longest serving woman and the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, released the following statement regarding the apparent murder of U.S. journalist Jamal Khashoggi: “As gruesome, repugnant horrors about Saudi Arabia’s repressive kingdom emerge in the tragic death of Jamal Khashoggi, its reputation as the home to “Chop-Chop Square” is verified again — a place where oil and money regularly trump liberty and free expression. At our own nation’s founding, as colonial rule was upended, free expression was viewed as so vital, its protection was placed in the very first amendment to our Constitution. Still, far too many have sold liberty’s soul for Saudi favor — crude, cash, or massive weapons deals. U.S. leaders, beginning with our President and his relatives with financial interests in the Saudi kingdom, must ask themselves on whose side they stand: Liberty or gold-infused tyranny? Congress must demand a full accounting of the facts and circumstances surrounding the untimely death of Jamal Khashoggi.” ###
10.10.2018	Cleveland, OH - Following the State Department’s unexpected July announcement of a deferment in grant monies to help nurture independent media outlets in rural Hungary, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-chair of the Congressional Hungary Caucus, lead 21 Members of Congress in a letter to Assistant Secretary of State Wes Mitchell to express deep concern about the diminished space for independent journalism in Hungary. The letter seeks clarification on why the State Department canceled $700,000 worth of grants to support independent media in Hungary, as the cancelation raises questions as to State’s global commitment to freedom of the press. Kaptur issued the following statement with the release of the letter: “I am pleased to join my colleagues to reaffirm the U.S. commitment to freedom of the press in Hungary and around the world. As co-chair of the Congressional Hungarian Caucus, I remain a close friend of the Hungarian people. Hungary has struggled and fought for its own liberty. Their commitment to the values of free expression and democracy have been repeatedly reiterated by successive Hungarian governments, both in words and binding commitments.” “Yet, independent media in Hungary has come under fire from the government. Newspapers such as Nepszabadsag have been shuttered, while media outlets friendly to the government receive more state advertising support. Media consolidated in the hands of a few is a weapon against liberty. In an era of global democratic retrenchment and rising nationalism, the United States must continue to lead with our democratic values that are so critical to our own national security. If we do not stand by our values, we undercut the foundation of our enduring strength. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the State Department to promote and ensure U.S. engagement on freedom of the press, and other democratic principles.” Read more about the news here: New York Times: “Hungary’s Leader was Shunned by Obama, but Has a Friend in Trump” Wall Street Journal: “In Orban’s Hungary, a Glimpse of Europe’s Demise” ###
10.01.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and a leader in the initial fight to prevent NAFTA from being enacted, released the following statement after text of a modernized trade deal between the United States, Canada, and Mexico was released. “Ohio has been a bull’s eye of destruction due to the original NAFTA. Town after town lost good jobs at good wages and benefits. I voted against the original NAFTA and its vast US job outsourcing and wage drag, and have witnessed firsthand as dire predictions came true for too many of our fellow citizens. Our nation lost thousands of jobs to penny wage environments where workers could not even afford to buy what they made. The original NAFTA fueled massive migration from Mexico’s countryside to our nation because thousands of small farms there were extinguished. What a tragedy. In the nearly three decades since, we have not had even one year of balanced trade accounts, vivid evidence of a trade agreement that failed America’s workers and communities as plant after plant shut down. In this wake, a modern agreement to correct these injustices is long-overdue. On first glance, it appears this Administration has made incremental progress on goals long championed to uplift North American workers devastated by the original agreement. However, the devil is in the details, the jury is out on this new deal. Trade with our closest neighbors is not simply a zero sum game.” “Any new North American trade agreement must raise wages and create a level playing field across the board. The threats and bluster in which President Trump has engaged have real consequences for jobs and Americans throughout the Heartland states, particularly in auto and farm country. The American people are not interested in faulty, half negotiations that look good on paper but fail to live up to the promises the President and his team made on the campaign trail.” “Now four weeks before a major election in our country and two months before a new, pro-worker president is inaugurated in Mexico the Trump administration puts forth the amended deal posting it at the 11th hour and without Congressional input up to this point. With the release of text, which remains unfinished and unresolved in some important places, comes the task to determine whether the job outsourcing bonanza that has taken hold since NAFTA’s passage in 1994 has truly been addressed. Have strong labor standards been included, subject to swift and certain enforcement, so corporate interests do not continue to outsource American jobs to take advantage of rock-bottom Mexican wages? To rush any deal of such magnitude through negotiations for the sake of electoral timelines rather than necessary and substantive achievements, is a disservice to our constituents and in the end will not succeed. American workers deserve a complete picture of where Trump’s NAFTA is headed.” Kaptur concluded. ###
09.28.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and her colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives voted 393-8 to pass the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bipartisan package of opioid-related provisions. “While I am pleased to see bipartisan action to advance the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act to the president, gaps remain in federal action that leave me greatly troubled for the Ohioans suffering from this crisis every day,” said Ms. Kaptur. “Provisions in this bill will expand treatment options and care delivery under Medicaid, strengthen enforcement against bad actors in the treatment and pharmaceutical community, protect our communities against illicit fentanyl, and provide workforce recovery opportunities with job training and treatment services.” “More, however, needs to be done to provide sustained funding for treatment, recovery, and supportive services, which this bill does not fully address. I am hopeful that this legislation can serve as another down-payment towards comprehensive relief the nation and Ohio desperately seek.” The opioids package includes an important provision that temporarily repeals the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion for certain Medicaid beneficiaries with substance use disorders (SUDs). Medicaid would pay for up to 30 total days of care in an IMD during a 12-month period for eligible beneficiaries aged 21 to 64 with a SUD. The bill also includes safeguards to ensure that states do not reduce the availability of community-based care. This is commonly referred to as the “16-bed limit,” which had hampered the efforts of communities to treat the growing number of people who needed access to treatment facilities. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act focuses on the recovery of those with substance use disorders (SUDs) and authorizes the Department of Labor to provide coordinated job training and treatment services to individuals in affected communities with Opioid Use Disorders (OUDs) or SUDs and to support the treatment workforce in significantly impacted areas. The bill also provides the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with new authority to cease distribution or recall controlled substances that may endanger patients and improves the FDA’s capacity to inspect and respond to illegal controlled substances. The legislation also reauthorizes the Office of National Drug Control Policy through 2023 and enacts important reforms to better coordinate an effective response to the opioid crisis. ###
09.21.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today welcomed news that the University of Toledo received four federal awards from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation totaling at over $1.3 million. “The University of Toledo continues to advance its strong research base, this time in the two critical areas of innovative drug targets for cancer risk and also to public health and opioid crisis education,” said Kaptur. “The University of Toledo’s leadership in pioneering treatments and therapies for everything from heart disease to detecting a substance use relapse has earned it the attention of granting agencies. Securing competitive federal awards is no easy task. Congratulations to UT for identifying and competing in very competitive space.” Dr. Cheryl Mccullumsmith, professor and chair of the UT Department of Psychiatry, was awarded a three-year, $449,076 grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to expand education about opioid use disorder across all disciplines within UT’s College of Medicine and Life Sciences. “We are training a generation of family medicine doctors, surgeons and internists to actively prevent and treat opioid use disorders,” Mccullumsmith said. Dr. Linda Lewandowski, dean of the UT College of Nursing and co-chair of the UT Opioid Task Force, was awarded a three-year, $371,723 grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for an interdisciplinary public health project that will provide evidenced-based mental health awareness training to UT students, faculty and staff, as well as the wider northwest Ohio community. “By providing ‘mental health first aid,’ we will empower our students, faculty and community to recognize mental health and substance abuse problems and respond appropriately,” Lewandowski said. “This type of training is especially important during this time of the pervasive opioid crisis affecting our state and the nation.” Dr. Maria Diakonova, professor in the UT Department of Biological Sciences, was awarded a three-year, $449,667 grant from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences to focus on a protein called JAK2 as she works to identify new drug targets to reduce the risk of cancer. “Our goal is to explain the JAK2-mediated intracellular pathways and have a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in cell proliferation, or cell division, which could provide insight into future therapeutic approaches to cancer,” Diakonova said. Dr. Terry Bigioni, professor in the UT Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, was awarded a $50,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to research broad-spectrum antimicrobial coatings for garments and textiles. Antimicrobial treatments are already used in medicine, as anti-infective treatments and in garments and textiles for odor control. This technology could bring odor control to a wider range of products and reduce the need to launder many garments, improving garment lifespan and reducing their environmental impacts. “We think our antimicrobial technology could bring a lot of added value to the garment and medical industries and create new manufacturing jobs right here in northwestern Ohio,” Bigioni said. ###
09.20.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today welcomed news that the Erie County Department of Health and Firelands Regional Health System each received federal awards from the Health Services and Resources Administration (HRSA) and that the Erie County Department of Health also received a federal award from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). “Our community health partners have committed to expand delivery of opioid related health services in our rural areas,” said Kaptur. “Erie County Health Department and Firelands Regional will help to lead this area out of the opioid epidemic by providing life-saving intervention, treatment, and support during recovery. I am very pleased to support the continued efforts of our health care entities as they continue to garner federal resources.” The Erie County Health Department and Firelands Regional Health Systems each received a $250,000 Rural Health Opioid Program award from HRSA, which intends to reduce morbidity and mortality related to opioid overdoses. The grantees will each prepare individuals with opioid use disorder to begin treatment, support patients in recovery through counseling, and provide peer support activities. In addition, the Erie County Health Department received a $1,000,000 Improving Access to Overdose Treatment award from SAMHSA. The project will be a collaboration between Erie, Huron, and Ottawa counties to train first responders and the community to administer Narcan, the overdose reversal drug, and to connect individuals to treatment and recovery. The project will also work to train pharmacists and health care providers on prescribing medication assisted treatment. “Saving lives in our region has now become a strong reality thanks to this funding opportunity which will have an immediate and measurable impact on our communities,” said Peter Schade, the Erie County Health Commissioner. “Our collective quality of life has just received a remarkable stimulus. Thank you to Congresswoman Kaptur for her tireless fight on this addiction battle.” ###
09.18.2018	Toledo, Ohio - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives, released the following statement after news that the Supreme Court today denied an application for a stay of a lower court ruling in a case involving Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, which has been fighting a 2012 lawsuit that demanded that it disclose its donors. "Finally, a victory for the people," said Kaptur. "At least with this action, voters will know which billionaire paid for the smear ad they see on television leading up to Election Day. This is a first step toward real transparency. And, it’s one step forward on the path toward restoring the American peoples’ control over our democracy. "We must continue the fight to get money out of our elections; that’s why I introduced the REFUSE Act, which works to block foreign spending on U.S. elections. With less than two months until we cast our votes in an election that has the potential to change the course of our nation’s history, this Supreme Court action is truly a victory," Kaptur concluded. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today welcomed news of that the General Services Administration (GSA) is releasing a photo rendering of the new annex of the James M. and Thomas W.L. Ashley U.S. Courthouse in Toledo, Ohio. Kaptur, who serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, was instrumental in including the $104 million needed for construction of the Toledo Courthouse Annex in the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The bill’s passage put the new annex on track for construction to begin in 2019 with completion expected in 2021. “This new addition to the Ashley Federal Courthouse will lift up and modernize our Civic Center Mall,” said Kaptur. “This design is a tribute to Toledo’s ongoing heritage as the Glass City. A federal investment of more than $100 million in the heart of our city will transform our Civic Center Mall and justice corridor for generations. I look forward to work getting underway in the further renaissance of our city’s core.” (Click here for photo download) Project details according to the GSA: The $104 million project allows GSA to construct a nearly 96,000 square foot courthouse annex and to fully renovate the existing historic Ashley U.S. Courthouse. The concept design for the annex features a geometric glass structure that sits atop a raised base. This structure celebrates the glass manufacturing heritage of Toledo, and also maximizes natural daylight, views and visual connection to the Civic Center Mall. The renovations to the existing courthouse include upgrades to mechanical, electrical, plumbing and life safety systems, elevator modernization, accessibility upgrades, tenant improvements, and façade repairs for the existing courthouse. ###
09.11.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today welcomed news that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded nearly $1 million in federal grants to two scientists at The University of Toledo for research projects examining cell behaviors that can lead to the development of better medicines to treat cancer, cardiovascular disease and autoimmune disease. “Once again one of our top-level Ohio universities proves that they are on the cutting edge of medical research and innovation,” said Kaptur. “Northern Ohio is a leader in medical research and these funds build on that foundation of excellence. These researchers are pushing boundaries and working to develop treatments and therapies to help those suffering from chronic illness. The University of Toledo distinguishes itself by competing and winning competitive grant opportunities such as the one announced today. I am pleased to be able to support their efforts to access federal research resources.” Dr. Ajith Karunarathne, assistant professor in the UT Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, received $441,323 from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences to examine the regulation of a crucial group of signaling pathways named G-protein and GPCRs that help the body control functions, including heart rate, and are involved in pathological processes such as cancer and heart disease. “Knowledge from our experiments will help develop tissue and organ-specific treatments for a variety of diseases, including cancer, that are less harmful to patients,” Karunarathne said. Dr. James Slama, professor in the UT Department of Medicinal and Biological Chemistry, received $461,898 from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences to identify the elusive receptor for nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate, or NAADP, which could lead to the development of inhibitors that may be useful as anti-tumor drugs. “This project is part of an effort to discover how cells in an organism control their behaviors, and how they respond to changing outside conditions,” Slama said. “Results from our work will aid in the development of anti-cancer and cardiovascular drugs. ” ###
09.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), who co-led Conference Committee negotiations as a member of the Appropriations “Minibus” Conference Committee, announced Ohio priorities secured in the spending deal which covers the Department of Energy, Department of Veterans Affairs, Military Construction, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Legislative Branch. “Though House Republicans took the long way to a bipartisan, common sense spending agreement, I am glad we finally were able to negotiate with our Senate counterparts and produce this compromise for the American people,” said Kaptur. “We worked hard to make sure this package of bills reflects the priorities of the American people, and we found bipartisan consensus to reject partisan policy riders and the Trump Administration’s proposed cuts to manufacturing and energy research – efforts needed to position our Nation to take advantage of the next wave of innovation.” “It is my hope that the remainder of the funding bills can be negotiated with the same bipartisan approach between the Senate and the House,” Kaptur concluded. The final vote on the agreement will take place at the end of this week. Kaptur is the senior-most Democrat on the Appropriations Committee and the Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee which oversees spending for the Department of Energy and the Army Corps of Engineers. Breakdown of key priorities Kaptur fought for: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funding is up 2.5% to $6.9 billion to improve water infrastructure and ensure commerce can flow to Great Lakes ports. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will receive $5 billion more ($86.48 billion total) than in 2018. This includes investment in VA construction and health services like $348 million for opioid treatment for veterans. The Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy will receive a 2.5% increase to $2.3 billion. This program supports clean energy and energy efficiency programs with the goal of reducing our dependence on foreign energy and reduce pollution. DOE’s Advanced Manufacturing Office received $320 million up $15 million from last year. This office invests in path-breaking, manufacturing research that positions the U.S. to take advantage of changing technology and create jobs. DOE’s Advanced Research Project Agency – Energy (ARPA-E) program will receive an increase of 3% to $366 million to drive innovation for a clean energy future. You can read more about this program in an editorial Kaptur authored with experts from Case Western University in the Cleveland Plain Dealer (link). Kaptur fought for a $6 million increase ($257 million total) for the Weatherization Assistance Program that helps reduce energy costs for low-income households. Language to help move forward on shipping modernization at the Soo Locks, a key shipping terminal for steel in the Great Lakes. Language that pushes the Army Corps to take the next steps toward strengthening protections against Asian Carp entering the Great Lakes. Language to ensure interns working in Congress receive pay for their time. This move opens up this critical opportunity to more citizens who wish to gain experience in the Legislative Branch. Get a summary breakdown of the bill here and a full breakdown here. ###
09.10.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today announced that the Sandusky Artisans Recovery Community Center will receive a $199,207 federal award to help bolster substance use recovery efforts. The grant is part of the Building Communities of Recovery program, administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. “Our communities face immense pressure to help our people for whom substance use has disrupted daily life. These funds are a welcome relief to the many who are suffering and those who are trying to help,” said Kaptur. “I fought hard this year to make sure Ohio receives its fair share of federal funding to combat this crisis. This grant puts federal dollars to work in a community-centered program that will help people overcome substance use and live healthy and stable lives.” “Sandusky Artisans Recovery Community Center is honored to be the recipient of the Building Strong Recovery Communities Grant from the Department of Health and Human Services. Sandusky Artisans looks forward to working with all involved in bringing Hope, Health, Home, Purpose and Community for those in Recovery, those seeking Recovery or the supporters of Recovery,” said Joey Supina, Executive Director of the Sandusky Artisans Recovery Community Center. The Sandusky Artisans Recovery Community Center is a peer-to-peer operated Recovery Community Center dedicated to organizing and mobilizing peers in recovery, their families, friends, allies of the recovery movement, community organizations and networks that promote access to immediate treatment and the resources to long-term recovery. Learn more here. In March of this year, Kaptur announced she had helped secure Ohio as a priority state to be eligible for national funding of more than $3 billion dedicated to combatting the opioid crisis. ###
09.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today announced a federal award of over $200,000 to the Bay Village and Sheffield Lake Fire Departments under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The operations and safety award funds much needed personal protective equipment, training, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. The Bay Village Fire Department will receive $137,048 and the Sheffield Lake Fire Department, $64,762. “Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect people and property every day. Federal support for first responders helps us fulfill our nation’s promise to these public servants,” said Kaptur. “This crucial federal assistance for the Bay Village and Sheffield Lake Fire Departments will help our community firefighters stay safe and protect our citizens from harm's way. The Assistance to Firefighters program is a helping hand to our cities and towns. As a member of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, I will continue to fight to ensure our communities in Northern Ohio are positioned to get the help they need to properly equip first responders.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. Since 2001, AFG has assisted fire departments and other first responders to obtain the resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. ###
09.06.2018	Learn more about the REFUSE Act here: https://kaptur.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/kaptur-introduces-bill-boost-transparency-and-reduce-influence-foreign
09.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, as arguments begin in a Federal District Court in the Republican-led Texas v. United States lawsuit to strike down the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, called on Republicans to stop their attacks on Americans’ health care. “As health costs soar, the attacks on Americans’ health care by Republican leaders in Congress continues,” said Kaptur. “While President Trump made promises about lower costs and better coverage that has yet to materialize. Instead, we are witnessing a sustained attack on the Affordable Care Act and the life-saving protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Congress cannot sit idly by while the American people’s health security is faced with such uncertainty and instability.” “This is life or death for many Americans and the silence of Congressional Republicans is deafening,” Kaptur concluded. According to a study by the Center for American Progress, the Republican lawsuit jeopardizes the health care of 130 million Americans, including 68 million women and girls, nationwide. In Ohio, the health care of 4.8 million people with pre-existing conditions could be threatened if the lawsuit succeeds. Last year, Kaptur brought Ohioan Kevin Filiatraut to President Trump’s joint address to Congress. Mr. Filiatraut’s wife, Kim, is a cancer survivor and was able to get life-saving coverage and treatment thanks to the protections in the Affordable Care Act. Learn more about the Democrats’ plan for lower health care costs here. ###
08.30.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today announced a continuation grant of $125,000 in federal funds to the Erie County Health Department, operated by the Partners for Prevention of Erie County. The grant is part of the Drug-Free Communities program, administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). “As the opioid crisis continues to ravage our communities in Ohio, now more than ever, we need sustained federal help in the efforts to prevent drug use among our most vulnerable citizens,” said Kaptur. “These funds and the continuation of this grant offer vital assistance to Erie County and its community partners in law enforcement, education and non-profit advocacy, in their daily efforts to prevent drug use and reduce the devastating impact of addiction.” “I commend Erie County and its people for rolling up their sleeves and working together to mitigate substance abuse problems,” Kaptur continued. “Their dedication inspires me to keep fighting in Washington for the resources needed to combat this crisis in Ohio.” The Drug-Free Communities Program (DFC) has funded more than 2,000 coalitions and about 9,000 volunteers across the country to provide local solutions for local drug issues. Coalition partners are well-situated to effectively address drug trends such as methamphetamines, illicit prescriptions, synthetic drug use and other harmful substances because they have the infrastructure to take a comprehensive approach to tackling these issues. Learn more about the work of the Partners for Prevention of Erie County here. In 2017, Kaptur was part of a bipartisan effort to protect Office of National Drug Control Policy, which administers the Drug-Free Communities grant program, from being slashed by the Trump Administration. Read more about that effort and her letter here. ###
08.27.2018	Parma, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) announced that U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will award $1,025,000 to the City of Parma to support the Brookdale/Broadview Septic System Abatement Project. The funding is issued through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Section 594 Infrastructure Improvement Funding Program to the Ohio Small Communities Environmental Infrastructure Group (SCEIG). The program supports water-related infrastructure and development projects that help alleviate environmental infrastructure issues throughout the state. “This infrastructure investment is good news for our region and the City of Parma,” said Kaptur. “Projects such as this are critical to the health and safety of our communities. These upgrades will create jobs, help improve the quality of life of our residents and are crucial to continued efforts to keep our rivers and lakes clean.” “The city truly appreciates the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ continued investment in Parma’s infrastructure projects,” said Parma Mayor Tim DeGeeter. “This is another big win for the City. Our Assistant City Engineer Hasmukh Patel has a great working relationship with the Army Corps, which only benefits our residents. We also want to thank Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur for her advocacy on the city’s behalf for this important infrastructure improvement.” Kaptur is the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water which provides funding for the Corps’ Section 594 program. ###
08.27.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House Representatives, released the following statement after news that the United States and Mexico reached a tentative trade agreement on a range of issues. “Congress must have its say on this Administration’s NAFTA,” said Kaptur. “I hope for a vote of the Congress on whether the President and his team have lived up to the promises he made to America’s workers in his 2016 campaign. Simply, any new North American trade agreement must raise wages and create a level playing field across the board. We must end the job outsourcing bonanza that has taken hold since NAFTA’s passage in 1994.” “The details and the fine print matter more than a hasty self-proclaimed victory. As someone who fought with all I had to prevent NAFTA’s passage and the trauma it wrought on American workers, I know the devil is in the details. I look forward to reviewing the details of this agreement as well as the issues that remain with Canadian negotiators in the days and weeks to come,” Kaptur concluded. ###
08.26.2018	Toledo, Ohio — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the senior woman in the U.S. House of Representatives, issued the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain of Arizona: “I extend deepest sympathies and abiding gratitude to Mrs. Cindy McCain, and Senator McCain’s lovely mother, Roberta, and his beloved children,Douglas, Andrew, Sidney, Meghan, John, James and Bridget, on the loss of this great American patriot. “America has lost a freedom fighter who fearlessly and robustly guarded liberty’s ramparts at home and abroad. John McCain never wavered from his sworn oath to protect and defend our nation. He truly stood in a class of his own.”
08.21.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement regarding the conviction of President Donald Trump’s campaign manager Paul Manafort in federal court and news of the guilty plea of Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen. This comes after Trump foreign policy advisor George Papadopoulos and national security advisor Michael Flynn plead guilty to charges last year. “The road to justice is long but today we are one step closer to learning the full picture of the crimes committed during the run-up to President Trump’s election,” said Kaptur. “From bank fraud to lying to federal officials to campaign finance violations there is a clear culture of corruption and criminal activity prevalent among some of the President’s closest advisors. As the American people digest this news, it is critical we ensure that the Mueller investigation continues without interference.” “As I have said since the beginning of this unfortunate national drama; truth will out, no matter where it leads,” Kaptur concluded. ###
08.15.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) held an event at Westgate Market in Toledo with local health and nutrition experts from the Area Office of Aging of Northwestern Ohio, Neighborhood Health Association and ProMedica to highlight the Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP) as well as other initiatives to help ensure food security. The Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program helps older Americans, mostly on fixed incomes, to obtain fresh fruits and vegetables and eat nutritious locally grown foods. Other local measures discussed include food pharmacies, affordable and well-stocked grocery stores in food deserts, the importance of good nutrition to wellness, and the Seagate Food Bank and its mobile market. “The Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program, is a win-win for farmers and seniors alike and I thank these groups for joining me today to highlight this program and its benefits for older Americans,” said Kaptur. “Too often our seniors are without nutritious and fresh fruits and vegetables and two decades after we pushed for this program it has proven to be both popular and put dollars in the pockets of our local growers.” “In a nation whose wealth is abundant but not shared by all, we continue to look for creative solutions to food insecurity,” Kaptur continued. "I encourage all to take advantage of these great initiatives to partake of and enjoy the delicious fresh produce grown by our neighbors!" More about federal and local efforts to combat food insecurity: This month the U.S. Department of Agriculture awarded $2.276 million to Produce Perks Midwest in order to expand the offering and increase access to fresh locally-grown food to 1.4 million Ohioans who receive SNAP. This nutrition incentive provides a dollar for dollar match to those using SNAP to purchase fresh produce from farmers markets and retailers in over 100 locations throughout our state, including the Toledo Farmers Market and Promedica’s Market on the Green. Produce Perks benefits our local economy, farmers, and families. Kaptur encouraged those who may be eligible to sign up for the coupons and check out the services discussed today to help with food. Learn more about the SFMNP program for the Area Office of Aging here. ###
08.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) announced her support as a lead cosponsor of bipartisan legislation dedicating more federal resources to combating toxic algae. This bill reauthorizes the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act and increases annual funding to $22 million. “Though serious work remains in our shared challenge to address harmful algal blooms, this is a good step and a commonsense measure to bolstering a coordinated federal response to this crisis,” said Kaptur. “From Lake Erie to Florida to Oregon – harmful algal blooms take their toll on our property values, our economy, our environment and threaten clean water access. With the Senate passage of a fully funded Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, we now need to double down at every level of government to heal our Great Lakes.” The bill was led by Congressman Brian Mast (FL-18) and also cosponsored by Congressman Bill Posey (FL-08) and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01). More about the bill: This bipartisan bill will make federal funding available to communities impacted by harmful algal blooms and ensure that a federal program aimed at combating harmful algal blooms is not allowed to expire. The bill also expands grant eligibility to include proposals for the intervention and mitigation of harmful algal blooms and also directs NOAA to improve their monitoring of harmful algal blooms and hypoxia. Read a copy of the bill here: Harmful Algal Bloom Research and Control 2018.pdf ###
08.01.2018	As Co-chair of the bipartisan Ukrainian Caucus, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement: "I remain deeply troubled by the arrest and detainment of Crimean filmmaker, Oleg Sentsov by Russian authorities. Oleg took up the cause of liberty for Ukraine, speaking out against Russian aggression and its illegal occupation of Crimea. Tragically, over 75 days have now passed since Oleg begun his hunger strike in a Siberian prison, and his health is rapidly deteriorating. It is clear that the enemy of liberty has little regard for human rights, and seeks to globally undermine vital democratic values. I join the international community in calling on Putin to immediately and unconditionally release Oleg Sentsov, and all other Ukrainian political prisoners." Kaptur was proud to adopt Sentsov’s case for freedom as a part of the “Defending Freedoms Project” with the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. Oleg Sentsov is a Ukrainian filmmaker from Crimea. In 2014, Sentsov was arrested by Russian occupying forces in Crimea due to his outspoken criticism of Russian aggression and its illegal occupation of Crimea. In a Soviet-style show trial without credible evidence, Oleg was wrongfully sentenced for 20 years and sent to a Siberian prison 3,000 miles from his home in Crimea. Since May 2018, Oleg has been on a hunger strike demanding the release of 64 Ukrainian political prisoners (not including himself). Tragically, his health is rapidly deteriorating. Read more here: https://www.rferl.org/a/european-parliament-urges-russia-to-release-sentsov-other-ukrainian-political-prisoners-/29290146.html
07.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today released the following statement after news of the death of Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne: “My sincerest sympathy goes to the family, friends and colleagues of the gifted executive and business leader Sergio Marchionne. We had many interactions and conversations over the years and he is someone for whom I have the utmost respect. “The Toledo community expresses its deepest gratitude to Mr. Marchionne for his productive life, sparkling imagination and respectful manner to both management and workers. “His engineering talents guided the Jeep legacy through a very turbulent transition to a new era of superior performance and growth globally. He left his mark on our community and throughout our auto-producing American Heartland.” ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House has passed Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur’s (OH-09) bill, H.R. 2787, the Veterans-Specific Education for Tomorrow’s Health Professionals (VET HP) Act. The bill would create shadowing and training opportunities for individuals entering the medical profession, including doctors, nurses, and physical therapists, who provide health care services for veterans. “It is remarkable what we can accomplish when we work together,” said Kaptur. “I am pleased and honored that this Congress is moving forward with our effort to establish a clinical observation pilot for future health professionals within the VA medical system. I thank Chairman Phil Roe and Ranking Member Tim Walz and Vice Ranking Member Mark Takano for their help and thoughtful review of this measure. Our attention now turns to the Senate where we hope our bill can receive quick review and action.” Watch Kaptur’s speech during debate on the bill (click here). As part of their admissions application, all schools for health professions either require or recommend clinical observation hours, but there is no formal process to apply for these opportunities. Students who attend schools outside major cities, as well as those whose families lack connections to the medical and health care community, face a disadvantage when looking for clinical observation hours and therefore admissions. This places an unfair burden on otherwise qualified students who lack the opportunity to shadow and who would benefit from the diverse, and often specialized, care provided in the VA health system. The VET HP bill: Provides a pathway for pre-health students to gain valuable shadowing hours and levels the playing field in admissions to health professions schools; Creates a 3-year pilot program at no less than 5 VA hospitals or clinics that would prioritize students in health professional shortage area, first-generation college students, students referred by minority-serving institutions, and veterans; Prioritizes students who wish to train in health professions experiencing staffing shortage. Expands the pool of health providers and fosters an early awareness of the specific health care needs of veterans, potentially making a dent in the health professions shortage. ###
07.23.2018	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed action by the Lorain City Council to rezone 9.7 acres at Kolbe and West Erie in the City of Lorain to make way for a new U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) outpatient clinic. With a final announcement pending, construction is expected to commence in 2019. Kaptur vowed to keep the clinic in Lorain when it was announced the clinic would leave the former St. Joseph’s hospital for a temporary location in Sheffield. “This has been a years-long effort to secure this clinic to better serve the thousands of veterans in Lorain and the surrounding area,” said Kaptur. “We anticipate the selection of this particular site in Lorain to place the veterans outpatient clinic at the nexus of the area’s healthcare network. Adjacent to Mercy Health Center, Oak Hills Nursing and Rehabilitation, the community heliport, extended care facilities and hospice, the proposed location sets up the VA to develop a truly full service, campus-like facility that meets the needs of our veterans into the future.” “We owe a deep debt of gratitude to those who defended our nation and the cause of liberty. Improving access to the health care services they have earned is an essential part of keeping the promise we have made to our veterans,” Kaptur continued. “This is a major step in bringing to fruition the vision of our partnership to keep the VA in Lorain. With our veterans, the healthcare and business communities, faith leaders and elected and community representatives, we sought to deliver a first-class facility to the heart of Lorain. Today we celebrate the next major step forward in that vision.” ###
07.17.2018	Watch Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur speak on the House floor regarding President Trump's meeting with Putin in Helsinki. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur took to the House floor to condemn Trump's irresponsible and "unpatriotic" behavior.
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) issued the following statement regarding the 2014 downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 by Russian forces in Ukraine. “Today marks the 4th anniversary of the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17, which was shot down by Russian forces in Ukraine in 2014. We honor the 298 innocent passengers whose lives were unjustly taken, and join the international community and the Joint Investigation Team in calling on Russian authorities to immediately engage, in good faith, to explain the downing of a civilian aircraft by missile.” ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Sandy Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a joint statement after President Donald Trump’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki: “As co-chairs of the bipartisan Ukraine Caucus, we are deeply troubled by the President’s subservient behavior towards President Putin. The United States must never tolerate actions that seek to weaken democratic institutions in the U.S. and our allies abroad. “Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine and its assault on peace and security in Europe has led to the death of thousands of Ukrainians and the displacement of millions. “We are also concerned that the President did not condemn the Russian government’s assault on Ukraine’s sovereignty, including cyberattacks on its institutions, aggression in the Donbass region, and the illegal occupation of Crimea. “We urge President Trump to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our NATO allies in the face of continued threats from Russia and its aggression in Ukraine.” ###
07.13.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the Polish Caucus, issued the following statement in regards to news that the Polish government has forced the retirement of several Supreme Court justices, threatening the independence of the judiciary: “I thank Poland for its deep commitment to the U.S.-Polish military partnership. Our alliance is critical to liberty in Europe, especially in the face of Russian aggression in the East. Despite a history of brutal oppression against the Polish people during the Partition, under Nazi tyranny, and throughout decades of Soviet occupation, courageous Poles have assumed leadership roles in historic achievements in helping to defeat communism, and develop democracy, and build a free market economy and civil society. Importantly, this includes Poland’s membership in NATO and the European Union. "Unfortunately, I have become concerned by the Polish government’s recent actions to undermine its independent Supreme Court and put Poland’s achievements at risk. An independent judiciary is critical to preserve democratic protections and provide checks and balances against overreach. In the face of Russian aggression in Europe, it is essential for democratic allies to reaffirm commitments to the fundamental values that bind them. As close friends of the Polish people, I urge the Polish authorities to recommit to principles rooted in the rule of law, upon which our great friendship is based.” Read more about the news here: New York Times, Poland Purges Supreme Court and Protesters Take to the Streets ###
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, a bill introduced by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) advanced in the House Veterans Affairs Committee. Kaptur’s bill, H.R. 2787, the Veterans-Specific Education for Tomorrow’s Health Professionals (VET HP) Act would bolster shadowing and training opportunities for individuals entering the medical profession, including doctors, nurses, and physical therapists, who provide health care services for our veterans. “Our veterans are owed a health care system that matches their great sacrifice for liberty’s cause and this bill is a step forward in the effort,” said Kaptur. “I thank members of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, specifically Vice-Ranking Member Mark Takano (D-CA), for the attention to and support shown in passing our measure. I look forward to continuing this collaborative effort as the bill moves to the House floor soon.” All schools for health professions either require or recommend clinical observation hours as part of an admission application, but there is no formal process to apply for these opportunities. Students who attend schools outside major cities, as well as those whose families lack connections to the medical and health care community, are disadvantaged in admissions to these schools. This places an unfair burden on otherwise qualified students who come from less affluent communities or rural areas, or who may not have connections to health professionals. The VET HP bill: Provides a pathway for pre-health students to gain valuable shadowing hours and levels the playing field in admissions to health professions schools; Creates a 3-year pilot program at no less than 5 VA hospitals or clinics that would prioritize students in health professional shortage area, first-generation college students, students referred by minority-serving institutions, and veterans; Expands the pool of health providers and fosters an early awareness of the specific health care needs of veterans, potentially making a dent in the health professions shortage. ###
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) yesterday secured a report requiring the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to provide information on prescription drug prices to the Appropriations Committee within 120 days of enactment. Four Republicans voted for the measure, joining every Democrat. “This is a reasonable step to get the information and data we need to provide a good breakdown on prescription drug pricing across Medicare, Medicaid, and the Department of Veterans Affairs,” said Kaptur. “We asked for this report three years ago but the agencies did not deliver the data we needed. As Americans face the pressure of ever-rising drug prices, it is my view that we must act as soon as possible to address this crisis and provide the American people with relief. I thank our bipartisan coalition for supporting this report, and I look forward to sharing its findings with my colleagues as we continue our work to lower drug prices for the American people.” The vote occurred during the lengthy markup of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education funding bill. Watch Kaptur and Ranking Member of the Labor-HHS-Ed Subcommittee, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) speak in favor of the amendment by clicking here. The Amendment will require CMS to report on the following: Drug prices per enrollee for 10 most utilized drugs and 10 most costly drugs. A breakdown of the 10 most utilized drugs and most costly drugs between ambulatory (hospital) and retail. Under Part D, a breakdown of rebates paid to pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs). Total annual prescription drug costs to each program. Drug price and total spending in each program for drugs approved by the FDA in the last 5 years that have largely benefitted from federal grants or research subsidies. Last year, Kaptur and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) introduced H.R. 2974, the Stop Price Gouging Act in the U.S. House, a companion bill to an effort led by U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH). The bill holds pharmaceutical companies accountable and protects consumers from egregious year-after-year price spikes and large, unjustified single price spikes companies use when they reach the end of their patent life or are looking for a quick increase in revenue. Learn more about the Stop Price Gouging Act here. ###
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today released the following statement after President Trump’s comments deriding our NATO allies: “I am deeply concerned with the President’s continued undiplomatic, belligerent conduct in public towards our closest Allies at the NATO Summit in Brussels. It is a certainty that through hybrid warfare, Russia is weaponizing energy in countries across Europe, including Germany and Ukraine, creating a dangerous new dependency by recipient nations. “Fundamentally, Russia seeks to undermine democratic values and institutions by seeding division and conflict. Unity in the Western Alliance is our most important bulwark against repression. It has been forged inter-generationally, at the highest cost, by our soldiers of liberty beating tyranny back from the ramparts of Europe. “Nordstream II poses new, troubling dependency threats on Europe’s energy security boosting undemocratic Russia’s toehold on the European continent. Facing such a transformation to European dependency on supply points East means the U.S. must strengthen, not berate publicly our Allies to counter insidious Russian influence wherever it exists. “Words of the President of United States matter. Risking alienation of the leaders of nations who share our fundamental political values is counterproductive and gives comfort to our enemies.” ###
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, a bill by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) advanced in a key subcommittee in the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Kaptur’s bill, the Veterans-Specific Education for Tomorrow’s Health Professionals (VET HP) Act would bolster shadowing and training opportunities for medical professionals, like doctors, nurses, and physical therapists, who provide health care services for our veterans. This hurdle moves this bill one more step toward passage. “There are few duties more sacred than our Nation’s charge to deliver quality care to our veterans who have bravely served liberty’s cause,” said Kaptur. “Those willing to serve are owed the best care possible. We must do more to train health professionals in order to decrease the impact of a physician shortage. Our bill creates more opportunities for students to get the training they need to care for our veterans.” “In order to meet our veterans’ needs for health care providers, we must look to all steps of the medical education process to build a diverse pipeline of students. Expanding access to clinical observation is one of those key steps. The VET HP Act will help build a pipeline of health care providers with veteran-specific experience and fill our health care workforce shortage,” said Congressman Mark Takano, (D-CA), Vice-Ranking Member on the Veterans Affairs Committee. More about the VET HP Act: All schools for health professions either require or recommend clinical observation hours as part of an admission application but there is no formal process to apply for these opportunities. Students who attend schools outside major cities, as well as those whose families lack connections to the medical and health care community, are disadvantaged in admissions to these schools. This places an unfair burden on otherwise qualified students who come from less affluent communities or rural areas, or who may not have connections to health professionals. The VET HP bill: Provides a pathway for pre-health students to gain valuable shadowing hours and levels the playing field in admissions to health professions schools; Creates a 3-year pilot program at no less than 5 VA hospitals or clinics that would prioritize students in health professional shortage area, first-generation college students, students referred by minority-serving institutions, and veterans; Expands the pool of health providers and fosters an early awareness of the specific health care needs of veterans, potentially making a dent in the health professions shortage. ###
06.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today introduced the bipartisan Repelling Encroachment by Foreigners into U.S. Elections (REFUSE) Act, H.R. 6249. The bill would help limit the influence of foreign-controlled entities and corporations and bolster disclosure requirements for lobbyists of foreign agents. “Look no further than the pervasive impact of Russian-sponsored political ads on Facebook to see why we need to maximize transparency and close the loopholes within our broken campaign finance system,” said Kaptur. “Until we repeal Citizens United -- which threw open the floodgates for billionaires and special interests to spend unlimited secret money on our elections -- we need common sense legislation to ensure foreign interests do not influence American democracy from the shadows.” Watch Kaptur’s floor speech on the REFUSE Act here: https://youtu.be/MaCY1JmGGcw The bill has 12 original cosponsors including Reps. Carson (D-IN), Deutch (D-FL), Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Jayapal (D-WA), Walter Jones (R-NC), McNerney (D-CA), Pingree (D-ME), Pocan (D-WI), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Raskin (D-MD), Shea-Porter (D-NH), and Waters (D-CA). The REFUSE Act is endorsed by Public Citizen, Common Cause, the Campaign Legal Center, and the Sunlight Foundation. What good government groups are saying about the REFUSE Act: “The bipartisan REFUSE Act will protect our right to self-government by closing loopholes that foreign actors have used to secretly influence American democracy,” said Adav Noti, senior director, trial litigation at the Campaign Legal Center (CLC). “The bill’s bans on election spending by foreign-influenced corporations and by foreign-funded dark money groups are a major advance towards safeguarding our elections. And the bill’s strengthening of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) will ensure that voters know which foreign interests are trying to influence U.S. policy.” “Instead of using nuclear weapons and guns, foreign entities are trying to undermine our democracy by exploiting our weak campaign finance laws and sowing discord through social media in this new type of ‘Cold War,’” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs with the non-partisan democracy reform group Common Cause. “All Americans deserve to know who is trying to influence their votes and their voices, and we commend Congresswoman Kaptur for introducing this common-sense legislation that would help secure the integrity of U.S. democracy.” “Foreign meddling in American elections has reached all-time and alarming heights,” said Craig Holman of Public Citizen. Russian sources in particular are exploiting the ‘dark money’ loopholes in our campaign finance laws, having launched a well-disguised and large-scale campaign ad blitz in the 2016 elections, and are already sponsoring anonymous and misleading ads for the upcoming elections. Kaptur’s REFUSE Act would help close these dark money loopholes, effectively shutting down the laundering of foreign money into campaign advertising. The REFUSE Act would also strengthen our lobby laws requiring full disclosure of foreign efforts to influence Congress or the executive branch on public policy. This is desperately-needed legislation.” “Preventing foreign interference in our elections will require significant reform on several fronts, and the REFUSE Act takes on some of the most vital. Undisclosed dark money and foreign lobbying both represent urgent vulnerabilities for our politics that the REFUSE Act will help to close,” said John Wonderlich, Executive Director of the Sunlight Foundation. What does the bill do? The REFUSE Act works to combat the influence of money in politics and shines a spotlight in the deepest recesses of our election system. Illuminating the full reach of foreign and corporate special interests is the first step in restoring the integrity of our democracy. The REFUSE Act would: Prohibit election spending by foreign-influenced corporations (through connected PACs) and 501(c)(4) organizations at two thresholds of foreign ownership interest/funding: 20% for foreign nationals; And a more strict 5% if those foreign parties are directly connected to foreign governments. Modernize and tighten the reporting requirements of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) and expand the Department of Justice’s FARA enforcement authority. Download a section by section summary of the bill here: REFUSE Act SBS.pdf REFUSE Act SBS.pdfREFUSE Act one-pager.pdf Kaptur simultaneously introduced two related pieces of legislation: 1) a Constitutional Amendment nullifying Citizens United v. FEC and 2) the Fairness in Political Advertising Act. The latter would require television broadcasting stations to make available free advertising broadcast time qualified political candidates in statewide or national elections, to level the playing field for viable candidates trying to compete against campaigns bankrolled by special interests. ###
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today announced that $300,000 in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) funds will go to Toledo Metroparks to help restore the Maumee River Area of Concern. The funding is part of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Both Senator Brown and Congresswoman Kaptur have led the charge in the Senate and House respectively to ensure that Great Lakes restoration efforts are fully funded. “These federal resources will continue our work to clean-up the Maumee River and Lake Erie,” said Brown. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is critical in our fight to keep the Western Lake Erie Basin healthy and we must ensure this bipartisan program is funded by Congress.” “Our work to preserve and protect the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative against attacks by the Trump Administration has been critical to the continued progress of healing Lake Erie,” said Kaptur, Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. “Metroparks Toledo will be a good steward of these funds as part of their work to conserve public lands and waterways across the largest watershed in the Great Lakes region. Their expertise and dedication to move forward on restoring the Maumee are both welcome and needed.” The funds will be used to restore 32 acres of wet prairie within the Maumee River Area of Concern. According to U.S. EPA, Metroparks Toledo will acquire property in the Irwin Wet Prairie Priority Conservation Area in the Oak Openings Region and will provide habitat restoration, site cleanup and invasive species removal. The site will be under permanent care by Metroparks Toledo and managed to preserve the thousands of species that rely on this habitat. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, in coordination with Advocates for Basic Legal Equality (ABLE), today secured the release of three women, all mothers, who were being detained after the immigration raid in Sandusky. The women were held at the federal immigration detention center in Calhoun County, Michigan until being released to electronic monitoring today while they await upcoming legal proceedings. All three have U.S. citizen children and have long-standing ties to the community. “I am very pleased we were able to reunite these women with their families while they await their upcoming legal proceedings,” said Kaptur. “I call on this Administration to stop these barbaric tactics and stop separating working families. Meanwhile, we continue our work to ensure that these individuals receive proper legal representation and basic care.” On Monday, June 18, Kaptur met with 30 women being detained at the federal facility in Michigan after the greenhouse raid in Sandusky. Read more about that visit here. Also, watch Kaptur’s floor speech this week regarding the recent immigration raids in Ohio. (link) ###
06.21.2018	Kaptur called on President Trump to “stop the barbaric tactics and stop breaking up working families” and come to the table for a productive solution that regularizes labor flow across North America and renegotiates bad trade deals that punishes workers both here and abroad. Watch the speech here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4736628/2nd-ice-raid-ohio-weeks-kaptur-urges-trump-stop-barbaric-tactics-table-workers
06.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Reps. Don Beyer (VA-08) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today led 71 Democrats in a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt expressing grave concerns over his May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. The memo asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider “adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. This would result in insufficient standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, and would also set a dangerous precedent for setting future EPA standards. The Members wrote: “We are deeply concerned with your May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. “Your memo specifically asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider ‘adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS’ during the standard-setting process. Currently, cost considerations inform implementation of the health standards, but not their establishment. The Supreme Court unanimously confirmed this point in Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, 531 U.S. 457 (2001), ruling that EPA may not consider implementation costs in setting NAAQS. “Allowing the consideration of factors other than health in setting future NAAQS would not only result in inadequate standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, it would also set a dangerous precedent for setting EPA standards. Your memo calls for the expedited review of two pollutants, particulate matter and ozone, which have the potential to aggravate asthma, increase the severity of chronic lung diseases, damage the lungs, cause cardiovascular harm, and even cause death. “Using the CASAC as the vehicle to make this change is also very concerning given your decision to bar scientists that receive agency funding from acting on advisory boards. This action diminishes the input from the world’s best scientists and we fear it will advantage the economic arguments of industry to the detriment of public health. “Your memo’s stratagem—formally directing CASAC to consider non-health factors during the standard-setting process, before final standards are adopted—is highly objectionable. We, therefore, urge you to withdraw the improper charge to CASAC at once, and to make clear that CASAC—and EPA—will remain focused exclusively on the adverse public health effects that the Clean Air Act and a unanimous Supreme Court confirm are the only relevant statutory considerations during the health standard-setting processes. “The Clean Air Act has been an overwhelming success for the health of Americans. We urge you not to backslide on that legacy.” Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here: The Honorable E. Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are deeply concerned with your May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. Section 109(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act directs EPA to establish “ambient air quality standards the attainment and maintenance of which in the judgment of the Administrator, based on such criteria and allowing an adequate margin of safety, are requisite to protect the public health.” Health is the sole criterion for setting the primary standard. Yet your memo invites that criterion to include economic costs. Your memo specifically asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider “adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. Currently, cost considerations inform implementation of the health standards, but not their establishment. The Supreme Court unanimously confirmed this point in Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, 531 U.S. 457 (2001), ruling that EPA may not consider implementation costs in setting NAAQS. The health-based NAAQS have driven lifesaving air pollution cleanup for decades. According to EPA’s own analysis, from 1970 to 2015, aggregate national emissions of the six criteria pollutants dropped an average of 70 percent – even as GDP grew by 246 percent. The agency also found that steps taken under the Clean Air Act, including implementing and enforcing the NAAQS, will prevent 230,000 premature deaths in the year 2020 alone. The work of the Clean Air Act and the NAAQS is far from finished, as more than four in ten Americans still live in areas where levels of ozone or particle pollution make the air unhealthy to breathe. Allowing the consideration of factors other than health in setting future NAAQS would not only result in inadequate standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, it would also set a dangerous precedent for setting EPA standards. Your memo calls for the expedited review of two pollutants, particulate matter and ozone, which have the potential to aggravate asthma, increase the severity of chronic lung diseases, damage the lungs, cause cardiovascular harm, and even cause death. Emerging research shows links to additional health harms. Those at increased risk include children, seniors, pregnant women, people with chronic lung and heart disease, people who work or exercise outdoors, people of color, and lower-income communities. Weakening these public health and clean air standards to help industry will not eliminate costs, it will merely shift them to communities, workers, and children, and increase the cost of medical care for those affected. Using the CASAC as the vehicle to make this change is also very concerning given your decision to bar scientists that receive agency funding from acting on advisory boards. This action diminishes the input from the world’s best scientists and we fear it will advantage the economic arguments of industry to the detriment of public health. It is clear from the Clean Air Act’s text, “allowing an adequate margin of safety,” that the intent of Congress is to err on the side of caution to protect human and environmental health. Any leniency to ozone and particulate matter NAAQS as a favor to industry resulting from these reviews will only endanger health and the intent of the Act. There is a highly problematic, internal contradiction at the heart of your memorandum and your charge to CASAC. In describing the controlling legal precedent, your memo claims that “adverse public health… effects” from attaining a standard are “relevant to the standard-setting process.” The memo then uses ellipses to omit that the other impacts related to implementation of the standard, may be considered only after that standard has been set: namely economic impacts, energy effects, etc. that may result from various attainment strategies. Despite this, your memo’s ‘charge questions’ to CASAC asks them to “advise the Administrator of any adverse public health, welfare, social, economic, or energy effects which may result from various strategies for attainment and maintenance of such NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. This charge question to CASAC contradicts the memo’s recognition of the restrictions in the controlling Supreme Court decision. The memo notes that your charge may “elicit information which is not relevant to the standard-setting process, but provides important policy context for the public, co-regulators, and EPA.” CASAC must only consider adverse public health effects--from the air pollutant itself--that are relevant to the standard-setting process, during that process. CASAC should not consider alleged health effects related to attainment strategies, and CASAC certainly must not consider economic or energy effects allegedly resulting from those implementation strategies, during any health standard-setting process. Your memo’s stratagem—formally directing CASAC to consider non-health factors during the standard-setting process, before final standards are adopted—is highly objectionable. We, therefore, urge you to withdraw the improper charge to CASAC at once, and to make clear that CASAC—and EPA—will remain focused exclusively on the adverse public health effects that the Clean Air Act and a unanimous Supreme Court confirm are the only relevant statutory considerations during the health standard-setting processes. The Clean Air Act has been an overwhelming success for the health of Americans. We urge you not to backslide on that legacy. Sincerely, ###
06.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, issued the following statement after news that the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the State of Ohio can continue to purge Ohio citizens from the voter rolls. “This decision by the Trump era Supreme Court emboldens those who want to disenfranchise voters and put up barriers to citizens exercising their constitutional right to vote,” said Kaptur. “Purging voters from the rolls is wrong, plain and simple and this 5-4 decision takes us backward. Voting should be easy and accessible, no matter who you are or where you live. It should not be a ‘use it or lose it’ privilege.” The decision in the case Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Institute was decided yesterday. Kaptur spoke on the steps of the Supreme Court back in January stating Ohioans or any American should not be purged from the voter rolls. She spoke with Oak Harbor Mayer Joe Helle, a veteran, who was not able to vote because he was purged from the voter rolls. See those materials here. "Voting is the cornerstone of our democracy” said Catherine Turcer, executive director of Common Cause Ohio. “This case highlights the importance of all Ohio voters being proactive and taking time to verify that they are in fact on the voter rolls. Voters can confirm that they are properly registered which is essential for their vote to count at MyOhiovote.com or by calling their local board of elections." ###
06.08.2018	Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement after news that President Trump said that Russia should be readmitted to the Group of Seven club of industrial economies. Russia had been ejected from the Group of Seven four years ago over the annexation of Crimea. “It is outrageous that the President would call for the reinstatement of Russia to the Group of Seven nations. Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and ongoing aggression in eastern Ukraine were the reason the Group ejected Russia in the first place. Russia continues to illegally occupy regions of Ukraine and has since expanded efforts to disrupt democracies in Europe, proving Vladimir Putin’s Russia is no friend of the community of democracies. Instead of further isolation and division, this is a time when we must stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies in the face of Russia’s dangerous and malign actions in Ukraine and beyond. I strongly urge the Administration to put an end to this reckless and inexplicable talk that could only send a signal of validation to Putin’s oppressive and barbaric ways.” ###
06.06.2018	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined Toledo Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz to announce that $1.8 million from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has been awarded to the City of Toledo for clean-up of the former Champion Spark Plug site on Upton Avenue. The significant federal investment will be used to remove asbestos and building debris along a 5-acre portion of the former spark plug maker’s 20-acre production site. “The City of Toledo and Mayor Kapszukiewicz are to be commended for their dogged pursuit of federal dollars available for efforts such as this,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Like our efforts to secure and later restore West Toledo’s Overland industrial complex, a renewed effort to improve the Champion corridor will have a tremendous impact in quality of life for Toledoans for generations to come.” “This property has a deep legacy in my own family as our mother, Anastasia, was one of the lead organizers during the union drive at the Champion Spark Plug plant, helping to lift up workers in the plant,” said Kaptur. “Now, we owe it to the nearby neighbors to the property and to the legacy of those workers to clean up the plant site so we can revitalize the property for future use. These federal funds put us on the path to progress,” concluded the congresswoman. Kaptur is a Member of the influential Interior Appropriations Committee which has oversight over U.S. EPA spending, where she has fought to bolster funding for EPA cleanup projects. “We have been looking for all options to address clean up at this property and we are very appreciative of the U.S EPA’s funding, especially after the recent brownfield grant award to the city,” said Mayor Kapszukiewicz. “This is an important step toward getting that property back into productive use.” The U.S. EPA award is the result of action taken by the City of Toledo in 2017 to advance the site for consideration and clean-up funding. The property clean-up is scheduled for this summer and is predicted to take 2 months to complete. The award is funded through the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or EPA’s Superfund program. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), the longest-serving Democratic and Republican women in the House, today introduced a bipartisan resolution condemning Russian transgressions against international law and FIFA values during the 2018 World Cup in Russia. This includes Russia’s history of violent and illegal action, like the invasion of Ukraine, as well as their well-documented human rights violations and the jailing of activists and journalists. “As the world turns its eyes toward the World Cup in Russia, with billions of viewers across the world, our resolution makes it clear that Congress has not forgotten Russia’s continued campaign of disinformation and electoral meddling, human rights abuses and violence across the world,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We must stand united against forces of tyranny, not undermine global sanctions against Russia by providing them with a windfall of tourism, likely to only benefit Putin’s rich oligarch friends.” "I'm proud to join my friend and colleague, Marcy Kaptur, in introducing this resolution at a time the world will be focused on Russia,” said Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. “We need to ensure we hold the Putin regime accountable and urge FIFA to reform its guidelines so dictators are no longer rewarded with prestigious events to give their kleptocracies a patina of legitimacy." The Members were joined in support for the resolution by Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel (D-NY). “When it comes to our shared experiences through the world’s most popular sport, we can do better than to reward Russia’s dangerous and reckless behavior with the honor of hosting the World Cup. The spirit of the game of soccer deserves better,” said Congressman Engel, Ranking Member on the Foreign Affairs Committee. “This bipartisan resolution makes it clear that Russia’s violent and aggressive actions will not be forgotten or glossed over. The international community must stand up against Putin and his cronies. The resolution details how Russia’s actions not only fly in the face of international norms, but they also go against FIFA’s statutes, which state that “discrimination of any kind against a country… is strictly prohibited and punishable by suspension or expulsion.” The Resolution goes on to urge the international community to continue to hold Russia to account, and not reward its malign behavior with the benefits of hosting the World Cup and hold FIFA to a higher standard in future bidding processes to ensure fairness and transparency. There are 14 original cosponsors supporting the resolution, in addition to Ros-Lehtinen and Engel, the other cosponsors are Reps. Poe (R-TX), Perry (R-PA), Sires (D-NJ), Dingell (D-MI), Connolly (D-VA), Burgess (R-TX), Cook (R-CA), Cicilline (D-RI), Gutiérrez (D-IL), Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Harris (R-MD) and McCaul (R-TX). See a full copy of the resolution here: ###
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today released the following statement in regards to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) action that occurred at a greenhouse and landscaping company near Sandusky, Ohio: “We are in direct contact with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials as well as local advocates in regards to the 114 people that were questioned and in some cases detained, in yesterday’s raid in Sandusky. “My office is working to get as much information as possible and we encourage transparency from ICE officials as this process unfolds. “In this tense environment created by an Administration intent on dividing us, we want to make sure everything about this action is above board and that individuals are being treated with dignity and respect. “I know many Ohioans are upset and alarmed by these actions by the government and I share their concern. We hope to share more information as it becomes available. I urge anyone to contact our regional offices if they need assistance at 800.964.4699. “The tragic reality is agricultural workers are vulnerable and targets for those looking to exploit them. Congress must regularize the seasonal and migrant labor flow across the Americas and we must end modern-day indentured servitude that is all too commonplace.” ###
06.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, will today introduce an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 to expand the scope of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC) to use funds to bolster trade and port activity in the Great Lakes region. Additionally, the bill renames the Seaway the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. “The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is full of potential to revitalize and reinvest in our Great Lakes Heartland,” said Kaptur. “Similar to the Appalachian Regional Commission, we can use the knowledge base and expertise at the Seaway to rehabilitate troubled industries and spur new innovation and investment, creating good jobs in the process.” “I hope my colleagues will join me in our effort to bring consistent and strategic investment through the Seaway and into our Great Lakes communities,” Kaptur concluded. The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is a wholly owned government corporation to construct, operate and maintain that part of the St. Lawrence Seaway between the Port of Montreal and Lake Erie. Learn more about the Seaway here: https://www.seaway.dot.gov/about/what-does-slsdc-do Read the text of the amendment here: ###
06.04.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a senior Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced several grants made available through the Administration for Children and Families (ACF), an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “As these grant opportunities become available it is important that leaders in our community put forward their best effort to bring these much-needed resources to Ohio,” said Kaptur. “We worked to make sure Ohio gets a priority share of federal funds to combat the opioid crisis, and I remain as dedicated as ever to ensure our people and our communities get a helping hand – from law enforcement to social services to treatment.” The opioid crisis has not spared any community, income level, race, or age in this country. Growing numbers of children are in foster care, placed with an adoptive family, or in kinship families because a parent is either dependent on an opioid or has died of an overdose. The four grants below administered through ACF build the capacity for prevention and community-based solutions to opioid use disorder. Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act – The Children’s Bureau, within the Administration for Children and Families, provides grants to states to develop a Child and Family Services Plan and requires states to submit an Annual Progress and Services Report updating goals and objectives after assessing the performance factors monitored by the Children’s Bureau. The purpose of the Child and Family Services Plan is to integrate programs that serve children and families. Funding is available for state agencies and territories and allotments will depend on state population. Deadline for applications is June 30, 2018. Kinship Navigator Programs – The Children’s Bureau, within the Administration for Children and Families, is providing a new grant to states, tribal and territorial agencies administering or supervising the administration of Title IV-E of the Social Security Act for the purpose of developing, enhancing, or evaluating kinship navigator programs. The minimum award for states and territorial title IV-E agencies is $200,000 and the minimum award for tribal title IV-E agencies is $25,000. Deadline for applications is July 20, 2018. Best Practices for the Use of Text and Chat-Based Technology in Child Maltreatment Reporting, Detection, and Prevention – The Children’s Bureau, within the Administration for Children and Families, is providing a new grant to states, counties, cities, tribal governments, private institutions of higher education, public or state-controlled institutions of higher education, nonprofits, and small businesses to develop text and chat-based capabilities for child maltreatment prevention. The platform will have the capability of resource sharing, detection, and reporting within the child abuse and neglect context. The minimum award is $500,000 and the maximum award is $1,000,000. Deadline for applications is July 3, 2018. Regional Partnerships Grants – The Children’s Bureau, within the Administration for Children and Families, is providing a new grant to regional partnerships that form an interagency collaboration between a state child welfare agency, a state agency responsible for substance abuse prevention, an Indian tribe, non-profit child welfare services, community health service providers, community mental health service providers, local law enforcement agencies, or judges or court personnel. This collaboration must improve the well-being of children affected by substance abuse and the applicant is expected to build a capacity that meets a broad range of needs for families involved with both substance abuse treatment and the child welfare system. The minimum award is $1,500,000 and the maximum award is $1,900,000. Deadline for applications is July 2, 2018. In May, Kaptur announced several U.S. Department of Justice grants. See that announcement here. In April, Kaptur, a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, helped ensure that Ohio received priority status for $950 million in federal grants to fund treatment and prevention services to stem the opioid epidemic in the 2018 funding bill. ###
05.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, signed a discharge petition to force a vote to restore net neutrality protections, after Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans continued inaction to even debate restoring the net neutrality rules the Trump Administration’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) dismantled in December. “Most Americans will tell you unprompted that cable, phone and internet companies often give customers a bad deal and wield way too much power in Washington,” said Kaptur. “Net neutrality rules ensure consumers are protected from price gouging and other abuses by big telecom companies. Telecom giants have lobbied like crazy to stop this effort, but last week Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. Senate stood up and voted to reinstate these critical consumer protections. Now the House must act.” “I urge my colleagues to side with the American people and protect the internet for everyone, no matter their race, income or zip code,” Kaptur continued. Restoring Net Neutrality rules will: Safeguard the open Internet through strong net neutrality protections; Ensure nationwide, competitive broadband options for consumers and small businesses; and Expand Democrats’ Better Deal for Universal High-Speed Internet to bring broadband to every neighborhood, school and farm. For more information please see this fact sheet prepared by FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn and this press release from Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14), who is leading the effort to restore Net Neutrality protections. ###
05.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – In a letter, Ohio’s U.S. House Democratic Delegation urged Governor John Kasich to rescind employment and community engagement requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries. On February 16, 2018, the Ohio Department of Medicaid proposed a Group VIII Work Requirements and Community Engagement 1115 Demonstration Waiver. The letter was cosigned by Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03). “By pushing through a waiver that will have a detrimental impact to majority African American populations, this policy will exacerbate already existing economic and health disadvantages,” the Members wrote. “This same disparate treatment – using counties, instead of cities as a baseline – is also present in Ohio’s method for determining exemptions for work requirements in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In both cases, the result is unfair for beneficiaries in urban areas with high-unemployment.” “As any steward of taxpayer dollars, we want to retain Medicaid funds for all beneficiaries who truly need the program but this waiver would create needless administrative bureaucracy and red tape that will almost certainly end up accidentally kicking off men and women who truly need and deserve this program,” the Members continued. A full copy of the letter can be found here: ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and Member of the House Defense Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s decision to cancel the planned summit with North Korean leaders. “Lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula will not come easily,” said Kaptur. “North Korea is not an honest broker on the world’s diplomatic stage and rushed attempts to deter that nation from its decades-long tradition of brutal and unstable dictatorships will not be effective. Validating Kim Jong Un with the direct involvement of the President may well be premature when dealing with an immature dictator. Nonetheless, I urge this Administration to keep high-level diplomatic talks going and work toward real progress.” ###
05.22.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Dave Joyce (R-OH) along with some of their bipartisan colleagues, sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, in support of the Great Lakes Advisory Board. Recently, the EPA has threated the establishment and composition of the much-needed advisory group, which sparked the need for the letter after multiple attempts of outreach to the agency by Reps Joyce and Kaptur. Excerpts of the letter read: “We write to request that you maintain the Great Lakes Advisory Board (Board). "The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) created the Board to ensure transparent, credible, and diverse views in guiding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative’s (GLRI’s) investments. The Board—comprised of many of the region’s most respected experts—has provided invaluable advice for the guidance of the GLRI to the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force and its Great Lakes Regional Working Group… "We wish to reiterate, as we have done in past appropriations reports, that we support the establishment and maintenance of the Board. We urge you to maintain the Board and request that you seek our input should EPA consider any changes to this important entity.” Read the full letter here: Kaptur Joyce Great Lakes Advisory Board Letter May 2018.pdf ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after voting no for the GOP led Farm Bill: “America needs Congress to pass a bipartisan Farm Bill, not engage in political theatrics. Congress must immediately go back to the drawing board and produce a real Farm Bill that shows respect for our nation’s farmers and as well as consumers. “Agriculture and nutrition are fundamental to maintaining a stable society. Even our early Presidents knew that. With farm prices at historic lows, increasingly unpredictable weather events, and millions of our citizens without food security, the Republican leadership in Congress must produce a bipartisan bill that meets the challenges of today and tomorrow. “For a complicated state such as Ohio, where agriculture is one of our largest business sectors and multiple urban centers are dependent on food produced outside their borders, a stable agricultural economy is a must. It is part of our heritage and natural endowment. “We cannot allow unnecessary political wrangling to deter us from meeting our responsibilities to this vital sector of our economy. “Congressional Republicans continue to produce gridlock even as they control all three branches of the federal government. Republicans should do the job expected of them and pass a respectable Farm Bill.” ###
05.14.2018	Washington D.C. -- Co-Chairs of the Congressoinal Poland Caucus, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04) released the following statement: "As co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Poland Caucus, we deeply value the importance of remembering Poland’s historical struggle for liberty. This spring, we commemorate the 78th anniversary of the Katyn Massacre, and honor the lives of around 20,000 Polish officers, soldiers, and other innocents murdered at the hands of the Soviet secret police at Katyn forest and other sites. The truth of this event was covered up far too long by the Soviet propaganda machine, which makes remembering this event so important today. "Tragically, this event led to the murder of many nationalities, and continues to affect many communities today across the United States and the world. As Dr. Timothy Snyder notes in his book Bloodlands, “Poland was a multinational state, with a multinational officer corps, and so many of the dead were Jews, Ukrainians, and Belarusians. Some eight percent of the victims were Jews…” "Through honoring the victims of Katyn, we are showing that these lives were not lost in vain, and that we must pursue historical truth. On this anniversary, let communities of all heritage come together in dialogue to pay respect to this solemn occasion so that the wounds may continue to heal."
05.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today announced several grants made available through the U.S. Department of Justice that would help communities combat the opioid crisis through enforcement as well as treatment programs. “We need to make sure as many of these resources make it back to Ohio as possible,” said Kaptur. “Ohio is at the top of the list in nearly every tragic opioid-related statistic. We must act to help provide relief to our citizens. I urge local leaders, law enforcement, health officials and community advocates to carefully review these grants and apply as soon as possible.” In April, Kaptur, a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, helped ensure that Ohio received priority status for $950 million in federal grants to fund treatment and prevention services to stem the opioid epidemic in the 2018 funding bill. Several U.S. Department of Justice grants are now available with the explicit instruction to reduce the impacts of the opioid crisis on our states and communities. The four grants below were recently announced and have fast approaching deadlines. COPS Anti-heroin Task Forces – The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Anti-Heroin Task Force Program provides competitive grant money to investigate activities related to illegal distribution of heroin or prescription opioids. Approximately $32,000,000 in funding may be available for the FY 2018 program and a maximum of $3,000,000 may be awarded to each recipient. Funding is available to state law enforcement agencies. Deadline for applications is June 27, 2018. Justice and Mental Health Collaboration – The Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Program awards competitive grants to states, local governments, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments to perform one of the following three functions: 1) collaborative approaches to reduce the prevalence of serious mental illness among individuals is jails, 2) strategic planning for police and mental health collaboration, and 3) implementation and expansion to support law enforcement prosecution, court-based, corrections, parole and probation activities. BJA estimates that it will make up to 58 awards for an estimated total of $23,750,000. Deadline for applications is May 29, 2018. Adult Drug Court Discretionary Grant program – The Adults Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program is a competitive grant that serves Veterans Treatment Courts and Adult Drug Courts. Grants are available for eligible states, state and local courts, counties, and local governments for two categories: 1) Implementation of an evidence-based drug court or 2) Enhancement of a fully operational adult drug court. Grants are also available for eligible State Administering Agencies, Administrative Office of the Courts, and the State Alcohol and Substance Abuse Agency for a third category: 3) Statewide coordination, services, evaluation, and training for drug courts. Ninety-six awards will be made for varying amounts depending on the category (categories 1 and 2 have a max of $500,000, category 3 has a max of $2,000,000). Deadline for applications is June 5, 2018. Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Program – The Residential Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners Program awards formula funding to states for the development and implementation of substance use disorder treatment programs in correctional and detention facilities or for the creation and maintenance of community reintegration services for individuals once they are released from incarceration. There will be an estimated 56 awards for an estimated total of $12,000,000 for a 48-month project period. Deadline for applications is June 18, 2018. ###
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today issued the following statement regarding the passage of State Issue One, which would create a bipartisan redistricting process aimed at ending extreme partisan gerrymandering. “Today Ohioans have taken a giant step forward toward fairer, more representative districts,” said Kaptur. “The people of Ohio have spoken clearly, and hand in hand with legislators and advocates for good government have now helped to put an end to extreme gerrymandering in Ohio. Partisan brinksmanship has resulted in a delegation of twelve Republicans and four Democrats from a state that has a history of nearly fifty-fifty votes in national elections. Ohioans have voted to end the practice of extreme gerrymandering that divides communities and creates disunion both in Ohio and in Washington.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – During congressional debate on a related bill, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today sought inclusion of her bipartisan amendment to provide relief to communities impacted by the potential closure of nuclear plants. The amendment would establish the National Electric Generation Facility Cessation Mitigation Program within the U.S. Department of Energy, and provide grants of up to 80% of lost tax revenue to local governments. The grants would decrease by 10% each year. “Though we are not ready to give up on regional energy security or the livelihoods facilities such as Ottawa County’s Davis-Besse power station provide, we must be prepared should our communities face a devastating loss of revenue that would come from a plant closure,” said Kaptur. “We must provide for a smooth landing for these communities, which through no fault of their own will be faced with drastic cuts to education, road maintenance, public safety and other critical civil services. Our amendment will provide these affected communities the necessary resources so they can gain a firm footing.” Watch Kaptur’s testimony to the House Rules Committee here: https://youtu.be/NkCRZ-VJQa0 Read the text of the amendment here: 20180508 KAPTUR AMENDMENT LOCAL RELIEF NUCLEAR PLANTS.pdf ###
05.07.2018	Thank you Chairman Simpson and all Members of this great subcommittee that consistently endeavors to work on a bipartisan basis to produce bills that meet our nation’s priorities in energy, water, and nuclear capabilities for domestic needs as well as security. As always, we applaud that our subcommittee bill is among the first out of the starting gate for 2019. This does not happen by chance and I am grateful for the excellent working relationship we and our Members have, Mr. Chairman. This is an achievement worthy of emulation in this Congress. Our bill supports America’s progress. Energy and water are essential elements of existence. Our work contributes to assuring their availability for domestic stability and national security not just for today but importantly for the tomorrows to come. America’s future is headed toward a population of half a billion citizens with growing pressures on our freshwater and energy systems. Programs under our jurisdiction advance our nation’s ability to meet that future with soft landings, not lurches. It is no secret for example that every time that fuel prices exceed $4.00 per gallon, our nation sinks into deep recession. Thus energy is intertwined in our economy as a main artery. Our Subcommittee’s work aims to assure America meets its potential. And with the two-year Budget agreement in place, we begin our work knowing what our topline funding level should be. That is a giant step in the right direction of restoring regular order. Largely thanks to Budget agreement, the Chairman has been able to provide increased funding levels across our bill. I am thankful for that and for the Chairman’s efforts. Our bill is certainly a message to the Executive Branch that the Legislative Branch rejects the ill-considered, draconian cuts we have come to expect to every important agency we fund in this bill. I hope we will see a realistic budget request next year. The significant increase in funding for the Army Corps will ensure continued forward progress across all project areas, including navigation and environmental restoration. I’m grateful for the Chairman’s continued partnership to address the Asian carp threat to our freshwater Great Lakes ecosystem as well as for funding to keep our Great Lakes open to shippers, which drives economic investment. While the Chairman has been generous in the funding of most programs, the bill cuts funding from the enacted levels for some of the highest priorities to those of us on this side of the aisle. These include Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, high sciences driven by ARPA-E, and Nuclear Nonproliferation, all within DOE. These programs invest in new horizons to move our economy forward through innovation while keeping us safe from bad actors with nuclear ambitions. I continue to be troubled by the unsustainable spending in DOE’s weapons program. We all agree that modernizing our nuclear arsenal within a reasonable timetable is necessary for nuclear security. As I have said repeatedly, these colossal increases for weapons are not sustainable year over year. Further, instead of working to rein in costs, just over three weeks ago the Administration submitted a budget amendment to begin work on a new low-yield ballistic missile as proposed in the Nuclear Posture Review. Given the timing of this request, we have not had any opportunity for debate in our committee. We did not have this information in time to discuss this with either Secretary Perry or the NNSA Administrator in our budget hearings. As of today, I remain unconvinced this new capability will actually improve our nuclear deterrent. The bill again includes several unnecessary and controversial policy riders, including a new version related to the Waters of the United States, and new language legislating an ongoing court case. These riders make moving our bill in a bipartisan manner difficult and I strongly object to their inclusion. In closing, I would like to thank our Members on both sides of the aisle, and our staff, who as always work in a collegial and inclusive manner. In particular, I would like to acknowledge Angie Giancarlo and Jaime Shimek, who are in their first full cycle as clerks. They have done a fantastic job. We thank you all.
05.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last Friday, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Paul Mitchell (R-MI), Jack Bergman (R-MI), and John Moolenaar (R-MI) led a bipartisan letter to President Donald Trump, urging his continued commitment to rebuild and improve the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. The letter was sent in response to remarks the president made during a recent event in Washington Township, Michigan, where he told the crowd he supports modernizing the Soo Locks. In their letter, Representatives Mitchell, Kaptur, Bergman and Moolenaar, and 49 of their colleagues wrote: “As you know, the Soo Locks are nearly 50 years old, which is well past their useful and safe lifespan. A new 1,200-foot lock is vital to ensuring our economic prosperity and national security. These locks are the only waterway connection from Lake Superior to the rest of the Saint Lawrence Seaway. This makes it a single point of failure in a system that supports millions of jobs nationwide and billions of dollars of economic activity. Nearly all domestic iron ore – which is required for certain steel production, a substantial part of our economy and needed for national defense – travels through the Soo Locks. This passage also carries other significant domestic materials and products, and is used for recreational purposes.” “Upgrading the Soo Locks, which are critical to jobs and commerce across the Midwest, is precisely the type of investment that should be priority number one,” said Kaptur, Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Committee. “I urge the President to follow through on his words with real action that will bolster our Great Lakes Heartland as well as America’s industrial base.” “The Soo Locks are an essential component of American’s economy and our prosperity, and President Trump’s acknowledgment of the Soo Lock’s importance is a major step forward in rebuilding and improving them,” said Mitchell. “Since coming to Congress, I have been working hard to draw attention to the importance of upgrading the Soo Locks to the Army Corps of Engineers and others, and am confident that with the president’s support, we will soon see the project advance.” “Since taking office, building a new Poe-sized Lock in Sault Ste. Marie has been my number one infrastructure priority, not only for the First District of Michigan, but for our entire country,” said Bergman. “I’m encouraged by President Trump’s interest in building this Lock, and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to move this project forward.” “The American economy depends on iron ore that passes through a 49-year old Lock. We need to build a second new lock to make sure this critical supply of goods continues uninterrupted for years to come,” said Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I welcome President Trump’s support for this project and I will continue to fight for this priority in Congress.” Representatives Mitchell, Kaptur, Bergman, and Moolenaar were joined by 49 of their colleagues including: Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Rep. Richard M. Nolan (D-MN), Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI), Rep. Dave Trott (R-MI), Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI), Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rep. David Joyce (R-OH), Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), Rep. Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL), Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH), Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL), Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI), Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI), Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rep. Jason Lewis (R-MN), Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY), Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN), Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH), Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI), Rep. Keith J. Rothfus (R-PA), Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI), Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT), Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA), Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), Rep. Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA), Rep. Steve King (R-IA), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN), Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Conor Lamb (D-PA), Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI). You can view the letter here: 04.30.18 - Letter to Trump on Soo Locks (Kaptur and Mitchell) - Signed L....pdf ###
05.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement regarding news of the Trump Administration’s continued delays on finalizing relief for the U.S. steel industry: “The President’s team promised a decision on steel a year ago. Unfortunately, mixed signals, lack of clarity, and failure to consult fully with other nations, has created chaos and upset the markets globally. “Now, more delays make it seem as though no decision is forthcoming, as has happened time and time again with the derailed Trump Administration infrastructure bill. All while we watch imports rise as companies work to beat tariff announcements. “I urge the Trump Administration to stop the delays and confusion and fulfill its promise to the American people. Thousands of jobs, the plight of laid-off workers coast to coast, and the fate of one of America’s foundational industries hangs in the balance. “The U.S. steel industry and its workers are long overdue for a level playing field.” ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, led a letter this week to Ohio Governor John Kasich urging the State of Ohio to protect constituents’ health insurance from rising costs and efforts by the Trump Administration to undermine health care markets. The letter was cosigned by Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03). “We write to urge you to reject partisan attacks on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and continue to work across the aisle to protect our constituents’ health insurance,” the Members wrote in the letter. “Bipartisan solutions that reduce out of pocket health care costs for working families must be developed. Since the passage of the ACA, many Republicans have worked on a national and state level to undermine or eliminate the law despite the fact that millions already receive coverage through the ACA, including 940,627 individuals in Ohio, comprised of 710,500 Medicaid beneficiaries and 230,127 Marketplace enrollees.” "There are a number of actions at the state level that would help increase coverage and improve the affordability of care for families in our state that will also counteract the harmful work of Republicans in Washington,” the Members continued. “[We] urge you to work to implement some or all of these options to help ensure stability and lower costs for our residents.” The Members listed four potential options in their letter: Protect state residents by limiting the sale of sub-par junk insurance plans. Boost coverage (and lower costs) by increasing outreach, enrollment and marketing. Protect consumers by ensuring their health plan provides essential health benefits, like hospital care, mental health and substance use disorder treatment, or prescription drug coverage. Use existing Affordable Care Act (ACA) authority to craft a reinsurance program to reduce health insurance premiums. Download a full copy of the letter here: Insurance Market Stability Letter to Kasich Final.pdf ###
04.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09,) in a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, urged the Trump Administration to actively oppose anti-worker legislation currently moving through the Mexican Senate. “We are alarmed and concerned about proposed amendments to Mexican labor law introduced in the Mexican Senate on March 22nd, 2018. The bill would maintain the corrupt labor oversight system that has prevented Mexican workers from exercising their rights to organize and bargain for higher wages for decades,” wrote the Members. “This directly undermines the ongoing effort to create a fair playing field for U.S. workers and U.S. businesses through NAFTA renegotiation and will ensure Mexico remains out of compliance with labor standards in the current agreement. We urge you to engage with your counterparts in Mexico, and make it clear that approving this law will have serious ramifications and negatively impact the effort to renegotiate NAFTA.” This letter was led by U.S. Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Sander M. Levin (MI-09), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Mark Pocan (WI-02) and cosigned by 94 House Democrats The full text of the letter as drafted can be found below: Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20006 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: In a previous letter, sent January 23rd, 2018 we urged you to address the issue of Mexico’s poor labor standards in a newly renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), with the understanding that Mexico’s government needed to implement reforms internally for such changes to take place. We appreciate your response and commitment to working with us on this issue. In continuing that effort, we write with urgency today regarding legislation before the Mexican Senate that would maintain the corrupt system that prevents Mexican workers from exercising their freedom to organize and bargain for higher wages. We are alarmed and concerned about proposed amendments to Mexican labor law introduced in the Mexican Senate on March 22nd, 2018. The bill would maintain the corrupt labor oversight system that has prevented Mexican workers from exercising their rights to organize and bargain for higher wages for decades. This directly undermines the ongoing effort to create a fair playing field for U.S. workers and U.S. businesses through NAFTA renegotiation and will ensure Mexico remains out of compliance with labor standards in the current agreement. We urge you to engage with your counterparts in Mexico, and make it clear that approving this law will have serious ramifications and negatively impact the effort to renegotiate NAFTA. For far too long, Mexican workers have been prevented from forming and joining independent unions and bargaining for better wages and working conditions. The system of protection contracts, which allows employers and employer-dominated unions (“protection unions”) to sign labor agreements without the approval or often even the knowledge of workers, deliberately prevents workers from negotiating higher wages,[1] keeping many in dire poverty.[2] It is no coincidence that the wage disparity between the United States and Mexico is unchanged in the 24 years NAFTA has been in effect.[3] In February 2017, the government of Mexico initiated constitutional amendments to address protection contracts and dismantle the corrupt Conciliation and Arbitration Boards (CABs) which give employers and protection unions control over labor courts, legitimizing protection contracts and preventing workers from accessing justice. The constitutional changes would replace the CABs with independent Labor Tribunals and require that collective bargaining agreements be explicitly approved by workers. These are urgent and vital changes that must happen if Mexico is to have a functional labor relations system. However, to complete the reform process the Mexican legislature must approve implementing legislation. This is the second attempt to introduce implementing legislation that would gut the 2017 reform process. Both bills were introduced by two members of the Partido Revolucionario Institucional (PRI) who also lead the two largest protection unions in the country.[4] The bill, introduced in December 2017, prompted unions in the United States and Mexico to file a complaint under the labor side agreement of the original NAFTA.[5] The bill introduced on March 22 is largely unchanged.[6] The current proposal would dismantle the tentative progress made over the last year and allow the corrupt network of protection unions to maintain their grip on industrial relations in Mexico. As detailed in the NAALC complaint, the proposal undermines the Constitutional requirement that workers approve collective agreements by a secret ballot vote, weakens transparency provisions established to ensure workers can access information about organizations claiming to represent them, and imposes onerous requirements for independent unions to gain recognition. It would ensure that protection unions and corrupt officials maintain control over the labor justice system, with the power to approve and oversee union registrations, collective agreements, and labor conflicts. We urge you to work with your Mexican counterparts to address this harmful legislation and end the long-standing suppression of wages in Mexico. The current corrupt system of labor relations is harmful not only to workers in Mexico, but to workers and businesses in the United States and Canada. If this legislation is passed and becomes law, it will be a potentially devastating obstacle to the success of the NAFTA renegotiation. Mexico’s Senate must reverse course and stop this regressive bill from becoming law. We urge you to work with Mexico’s government and trade negotiators to ensure Mexico’s 2017 Constitutional amendments become meaningfully implemented, and that a new NAFTA agreement must protect working people and ensure a level playing field. We look forward to continuing to work with you for an agreement that prioritizes working people, their jobs and their wages as NAFTA renegotiations progress. [1] See, e.g. David Welch and Nacha Cattan, How Mexico’s Unions Sell Out Autoworkers, Bloomberg (May 5, 2017) https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-05-05/how-mexico-s-unions-sell-out-autoworkers [2] See, e.g. Christopher Woody, Mexico's wages are so paltry that human-rights and legal groups are sounding the alarm, Business Insider (March 1, 2017) http://www.businessinsider.com/mexico-wages-incomes-poverty-2017-2 [3] The Conference Board, International Comparisons of Hourly Compensation Costs in Manufacturing, 2015 - Summary Tables, https://www.conference-board.org/ilcprogram/index.cfm?id=38269 [4] The Confederación de Trabajadores de Mexico (CTM) and the Confederación Revolucionaria de Obreros y Campesinos (CROC). See Maquila Solidarity Network, Will Mexico Make Good on Promise of Labour Justice Reform, (March 21, 2018)http://www.maquilasolidarity.org/en/will-mexico-make-good-on-promise-of-labour-justice-reform [5] Public Communication to the U.S. National Administrative Office under the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation (NAALC) Concerning the Introduction of Reforms to the Federal Labor Law of Mexico That Would Weaken Fundamental Labor Rights, including the Right to Freely Associate, to Organize and to Bargain Collectively, Submitted by AFL-CIO and the Unión Nacional de Trabajadores (January 22, 2018) https://aflcio.org/sites/default/files/2018-01/NAALC%20submission%20JAN%2025%202018%20with%20UNT.pdf [6] Isabelle Hoagland, Labor sources: Mexican Senate bill could undermine new NAFTA standards, Inside Trade (March 27, 2018) ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, today announced $249,000 in federal conservation funds for the Bay Point Conservation Project in Ottawa County. The investment comes from U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s National Coastal Wetlands Conservation Grant Program. “This is welcome news in our work to restore Lake Erie,” said Kaptur. “This investment will fortify our work with the community to ensure we restore this vital coastal ecosystem and protect the wetlands in Sandusky Bay. I am especially grateful to Western Reserve Land Conservancy for putting the pieces of this complicated funding puzzle together." "The rarity and quality of Bay Point’s 34-acre freshwater coastal wetland habitat and nearly 2.5 miles of undisturbed Lake Erie shoreline make this coastal ecosystem a nationally significant conservation priority,” noted Rich Cochran, president and CEO of the nonprofit Western Reserve Land Conservancy. “We are extremely proud to preserve such an extraordinary landscape.” The Western Reserve Land Conservancy has been instrumental in acquiring the property and leading the charge in conservation of these lands. Once permanently conserved, the property will be accessible to the public on a limited, by-permission basis for research, education, and some passive recreational and naturalist-led activities. This limited access is intended to allow public use and involvement while ensuring that the rare and fragile habitats of the property retain their extraordinary pre-settlement conditions. More about the Bay Point Conservation Project from U.S. Fish and Wildlife: The Ohio Department of Natural Resources will purchase a conservation easement encumbering the 65-acre Bay Point peninsula in Ottawa County, Ohio. The rarity and quality of Bay Point’s 34.1 acres of freshwater wetland habitat and 12,500 linear feet of undisturbed Lake Erie shoreline make this coastal ecosystem a conservation priority for the state. Moreover, the peninsula’s critical role in protecting the health of the abundant Sandusky Bay wetlands to its west underscores Bay Point’s unique conservation value. This area is composed of sandy substrates that are constantly shaped by wave and wind action. The southern portion of the property contains beaches, sand bars, small sand dunes and wetlands. The northern portion of the property is more stable and contains mature trees along with extensive forested wetlands and wetland pools. Protection of Bay Point will provide habitat for rare plants, and nesting, foraging and stopover habitat for several species of coastal-dependent migratory birds. ###
04.04.2018	Cleveland — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $2.6 million in federal investment for the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) to renovate bus facilities. “As we continue to fight for bold and innovative investments in our infrastructure and manufacturing base, we must remain committed to providing much-needed resources to our public transportation systems,” said Kaptur. “The funds provided in this federal transportation grant will help the Cleveland Regional Transit Authority better serve residents throughout Northeast Ohio.” Read more on the U.S. Department of Transportation grant here. ###
03.29.2018	President Donald Trump will visit Richfield, Ohio on Thursday to discuss his infrastructure proposal with the International Union of Operating Engineers. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following in response to the visit and infrastructure proposal: “We certainly welcome the President’s attention to Ohio today. An infrastructure overhaul that enhances transportation safety and creates jobs is desperately needed across America. The proposal set forth today, however, is a half-baked start. It relies heavily on funding from already strapped state and local governments, and raises significant concerns about commuter tolls and the sale of public assets to private companies to raise the money. The proposal also eliminates clean air and water protections that keep us all safe. Although there is strong consensus that we need to invest in our transportation links, such as the ports along Lake Erie, the St. Lawrence Seaway System, and our interstates, selling off these vital assets to provide funding for other projects is a reckless start. Privatization may offer short-term funding relief to the transportation budget, but the long-term implications could be dire for our public assets and transportation systems.” ###
03.26.2018	Toledo, OH — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, announced millions in new funding to combat the opioid crisis as part of the recently passed funding agreement. Kaptur, as a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure Ohio as a priority state eligible for grants. “Under a provision I helped spearhead in the recently signed Omnibus bill, Ohio will be given priority access to millions in state-level grants to be distributed by federal agencies to aid in our ongoing fight against the importation and sale of opioids and the devastating effects that addiction is having on families and communities across our state,” said Kaptur. “There is no silver bullet to address this crisis, but these funds and resources are a boost from the federal government to help address this crisis and provide our communities with much-needed relief.” “We must work together as a community to help our law enforcement authorities make our community drug-free. If you see something, say something. People in Northwest Ohio can call the drug hotline at (419) 255-3784,” Kaptur concluded. Kaptur in Toledo with law enforcement officials discussing the news opioid funding.Download the photos here >>> In the spending agreement which funds the government until September 30, 2018, there is $3.2 billion in total new spending to bolster programs across the federal government to combat the opioid crisis. $950 million in new State Opioid Response Grants will provide priority funding for states highly affected by the opioid crisis, including Ohio. Additionally, $330 million will be made available to law enforcement across the U.S. to bolster programs such as drug courts and substance use disorder treatment. To see the graphic used at today’s press conference click here: Opioid grants presser poster FINAL.pdf ###
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, today issued the following statement after news the State of Ohio will declare the open waters of Lake Erie impaired. “I welcome this long overdue decision by the state of Ohio. As I have said many times, anyone can look out at the now annual progression of green slime and tell you that the water is ‘impaired,’” said Kaptur. “The big question now is; how quickly the state will move to meet the reduction goals? I hope to see strong and swift action to reduce nutrient runoff and other contributors to this ecological challenge.” The announcement comes after a January, 2018 move by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw approval of the State of Ohio’s assessment of Lake Erie. In November of 2016, Kaptur and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) teamed up to send a letter to the U.S. EPA urging them to disregard Ohio’s determination and list the waters as officially impaired. Kaptur and Dingell reiterated this call last May. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation and senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding the release of the Omnibus Appropriations package that would fund the government through September 30, 2018. “Though this bill is far from perfect it includes many priorities and resources that will strengthen Ohio’s economy, bolster our Great Lakes Heartland and provides $3.2 billion in long-awaited relief for the opioid crisis,” said Kaptur. “From full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, to fighting algal blooms and Asian carp, to path-breaking clean energy and advanced manufacturing research, this budget takes a step forward. Congress is again living up to its promises to invest in the American people.” “Rest assured our fight is not over, and I’ll be working as a Senior Member of the Appropriations Committee to protect these investments. This compromise legislation is a constructive step to moving our country forward,” Kaptur continued. Kaptur spoke on the House floor regarding the bill. Watch that video here. See fact sheet on Democratic priorities secured in Appropriations bill here. ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Andy Harris (R-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a statement reaffirming support for Ukraine on the anniversary of Russia’s annexation and illegal occupation of Crimea: “As Russia’s illegal occupation of Crimea from Ukraine enters its fourth year, we reaffirm our commitment to an independent and sovereign Ukraine free from Russia’s interference. Since the invasion of Crimea four years ago, Russian authorities have especially targeted human rights advocates, journalists, civil society advocates, and Crimean Tartars in efforts to suppress their freedom of expression, movement, and association, in total disregard for the rule of law. “We continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Ukraine and reaffirm our commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. We firmly support Crimea as part of Ukraine and for Crimea-related sanctions to remain.” ###
03.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, March 18, 2018, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation and senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, has become the longest-serving woman in U.S. House of Representatives history. Kaptur surpassed the record previously held by Rep. Edith Nourse Rogers (R-MA). “It is my great honor and privilege to represent the people of Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District, and I thank them for putting their faith in me for so many years and inspiring our work to make America a better place,” said Kaptur. “Whether it is pension and retirement security, peace and stability throughout the world or fighting for a fair playing field, where working people have a chance to get a leg up and achieve the American dream – our work continues.” Pelosi honored Kaptur with a reception on Capitol Hill marking her milestone as the longest-serving woman in House history. DOWNLOAD HI-RES PHOTOS HERE >>> Other audio/visual assets: Leader Nancy Pelosi honored Kaptur with a special reception this past Wednesday. Watch here for remarks from Pelosi, Kaptur, former Rep. Betty Sutton and others. Speaker Paul Ryan and Leader Pelosi honored Kaptur on the House floor. Watch here. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a close colleague of Kaptur, surprised her with a special order hour of speeches on the House floor this week. Kaptur thought she was speaking Wall Street, only to discover that her colleagues were there to celebrate her milestone. Watch those speeches here. Other photos for public use can be found here. More on Congresswoman Kaptur: Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur is the daughter of Stephen and Anastasia Kaptur, a Polish-American working-class family in Toledo, Ohio. She still lives in the same neighborhood where she grew up and her parents’ hard work allowed her and her brother Stephen to advance. Ms. Kaptur was the first member of her family to graduate high school and college, earning degrees from the University of Wisconsin and the University of Michigan. She then worked to revitalize cities across America and as an advisor for President Jimmy Carter. While pursuing a Doctorate at MIT, Ms. Kaptur was encouraged by people back home to run against the Republican in her home district, Ohio’s Ninth. Her campaign focused on the deep recession in Ohio and resulted in an upset victory that was powered by grassroots volunteers and bake sales. Ms. Kaptur’s blue-collar roots drives her dedication to her fight for good jobs, fair trade agreements and against predatory abuses by large financial institutions. Her District first approach informs her work every day, including her decades-long struggle to build the WWII Memorial which was inspired by a constituent veteran. After tough internal elections, she secured a seat on the powerful Appropriations Committee where she ranks among its most Senior Members. There she focuses on economic growth, financial stability and defense and energy security for all Americans. Additionally, a fact sheet on Kaptur from the U.S. House of Representatives Historian can be found here: Kaptur-fact-sheet-3-13-18.pdf ###
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bob Latta (R-Bowling Green) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Toledo) will both participate in a ceremony honoring members of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian distinction awarded in the United States. The ceremony, which was recently announced by Speaker Paul Ryan’s office, will be held at Emancipation Hall at the U.S. Capitol on March 21 at 3 p.m. A single gold medal has been struck to collectively honor the members of the OSS. The OSS was created by General William J. Donovan in 1942 to better coordinate and oversee American intelligence options, and at its peak included about 13,000 members from every branch of the military, along with civilians. It served as a precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency and aided Allied forces by establishing intelligence networks, training resistance operations throughout Europe and Asia, and carrying out “mercy missions” at the end of WWII. “It is my deep honor to pay tribute to the brave soldiers who served in the clandestine service in defense of liberty during World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal. In awarding this recognition to the members of the OSS, America honors those who bequeathed precious liberty to us all. We must carry that torch forward as it was carried at such a great price by our forebears,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Office of Strategic Services was comprised of more than 13,000 noble Americans, who served our Nation during a time of great uncertainty and war. Our family’s beloved Uncle Tony, Anthony Rogowski, served in the OSS. To honor these individuals means a lot to us personally, as I am sure it does to the thousands of other families whose loved ones fought and served in the OSS. We salute you.” “The men and women of the OSS carried out missions behind enemy lines with exemplary bravery and skill,” said Congressman Latta. “The clandestine operations of the OSS played a significant role in an Allied victory during World War II, and their actions saved countless lives. It’s time to officially recognize these heroes with the highest civilian honor our country bestows — the Congressional Gold Medal.” Congressman Latta was the sponsor of the legislation to honor OSS veterans with a Congressional Gold Medal, which was signed into law in December, 2016. The sponsors of the bill in the Senate, Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Mark Warner (D-VA) will also speak at the ceremony. Congresswoman Kaptur was also a sponsor of the legislation and her Uncle Anthony (Tony) Rogowski, served as a member of the OSS. He was a corporal and his medals include Army Good Conduct, American Theater Medal, Pacific Theater Medal, and World War II Victory Medal. He is buried in a simple grave at Calvary Cemetery in Toledo, Ohio, with a gravestone marker provided by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The ceremony can be live-streamed at speaker.gov/live. ###
03.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s proclamation today with specifics on steel tariffs. “Today’s decision from the Trump Administration on steel and aluminum tariffs has moved through an unnecessarily prolonged and chaotic process with many delays. And this nontransparent approach has unsteadied the American economy. “Nonetheless, I am encouraged the President and his team have followed through on their promise to seek relief for America’s steelmaking communities and workers. Northern Ohio has fallen victim for far too long to illegal dumping, predatory practices and closed markets of foreign steel producers. “In a nation like China, its government directed steel industry is creating vast global overcapacity. America’s steel and aluminum manufacturing cannot fall victim to unfair foreign trade regimes — by China, Russia, Vietnam or any other nation. “I look forward to providing the Administration with commentary from Ohio based firms and workers as the President refines and targets his trade and tariff solutions to restore U.S. steel and aluminum competitiveness. “The President’s willingness to be flexible and exempt countries like Canada and Mexico who play by the rules is a good step, but the devil is always in the details. So we will be vigilant in monitoring how the Administration handles this action and whether or not it has the desired impact of helping to level our trade accounts, shoring up our critical steel making capabilities and doing right by American workers.” Background on Kaptur’s efforts and the 232 Steel decision: In February, the Administration released a report that contained Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s recommendations for tariffs and quotas targeting nations long known for steel dumping including Russia, China, South Korea and Vietnam. Read the report here, which mentions Lorain, Ohio and includes Kaptur’s testimony from last May to the Department of Commerce. The report was the result of President Trump initiating an investigation through the Department of Commerce to look into actions the federal government could take to keep illegal foreign steel from disrupting U.S. steel markets and harming American workers. In August of last year, Kaptur wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter came after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June of 2017, a self-imposed deadline that was missed by more than six months. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. Last year, Kaptur, along with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) invited Secretary Ross to visit Lorain. ###
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statements today after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced an action plan to combat harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. Kaptur and Dingell have repeatedly urged EPA to take steps to manage excessive phosphorous, the root cause of toxic algal blooms, to protect human health and the environment. "Though we welcome support from U.S. EPA to combat harmful algal blooms, this plan does not reflect the urgency or accountability we need in this fight," said Kaptur. "This first step must be followed by actions on the state and federal level to meet the plan’s reduction targets. Congress has provided one important tool for achieving these goals by funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Even still, the Trump Administration plans to cut GLRI funding by 90 percent. We cannot settle for the U.S. EPA having its budget slashed and hands tied leaving the Great Lakes and the millions of Americans who rely on them for water and commerce in the lurch.” “It is critical that EPA take action to protect the drinking water that 11 million people in Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes region rely upon,” said Dingell. “We have urged EPA to be more aggressive in combatting Lake Erie’s toxic algal blooms, and this action plan is a step in the right direction. However, we continue to believe that full remediation of Lake Erie requires an impairment designation by EPA. We will continue working with state and federal stakeholders to ensure communities have the resources needed to clean up these waters and protect the health of residents throughout the region.” In November 2016, Kaptur and Dingell sent a letter to U.S. EPA urging them to list the waters of Lake Erie as officially impaired. Last May, EPA accepted both Ohio’s and Michigan’s assessments even though Michigan had designated the open waters of Lake Erie as impaired, while Ohio had refused to do so. The Representatives reiterated their call for EPA to disregard Ohio’s determination. U.S. EPA now considers the Ohio assessment to be “incomplete.” Read the full letter here. Today’s plan from EPA outlines federal and state efforts to achieve the binational phosphorus reduction targets adopted by the United States and Canada in 2016 under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. Under the agreement, the U.S. committed to reduce phosphorus nutrient sources by 40 percent. The U.S. Action Plan can be accessed here. ###
03.05.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) cosponsored the Election Security Act, H.R. 5011, which provides cybersecurity resources and guidance to states to protect election systems. The bill currently has 52 cosponsors. “Ohio was one of the targeted states in this attack on American democracy, and as we learn more and more about how our elections are at risk and how Russia interfered in the 2016 Presidential election, it is crucial that we work to improve our election infrastructure,” said Kaptur. “Elections are meant to be the voice of the people, and I want to reassure the people that their rights as voters are secure.” The Election Security Act would work towards improving the security of election infrastructure in the United States by updating paper ballot systems, improving election cybersecurity and increasing accessibility for voters. Through financial grants for eligible states, the government would be able to facilitate a system that would safeguard election infrastructure, while keeping the integrity of the voter’s intent. Read a fact sheet on the bill here. The bill is based on a report by the Congressional Task Force on Election Security. You can read the report here. ###
03.01.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s announcement that his administration would take action and impose a 25 percent tariff on imported steel. Specifics have not yet been released. “Steelmaking communities are being whipsawed by unfair global trade and illegal dumping of steel by foreign nations such as China and Russia,” said Kaptur. “Though we have yet to see specific details, we are hopeful today’s announcement will put an end to a long series of delays to much-needed action against a rigged global steel market. Our steelmaking businesses and workers need relief so they can compete on a fair playing ground.” In February, the Administration released a report that contained Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s recommendations for tariffs and quotas targeting nations long known for steel dumping including Russia, China, South Korea and Vietnam. Read the report here, which mentions Lorain, Ohio and includes Kaptur’s testimony from last May to the Department of Commerce. The report was the result of President Trump initiating an investigation through the Department of Commerce to look into actions the federal government could take to keep illegal foreign steel from disrupting U.S. steel markets and harming American workers. In August of last year, Kaptur wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter came after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June of 2017, a self-imposed deadline that was missed by more than six months. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. Last year, Kaptur, along with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) invited Secretary Ross to visit Lorain. ###
02.22.2018	Cleveland — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement after news that the State of Ohio and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers reached a settlement in the lawsuit regarding the disposal of dredged material at the Port of Cleveland. “This decision ensures we keep our Lake clean and keep the Port of Cleveland open for business,” said Kaptur. “I welcome news that the U.S. Army Corps and the State of Ohio agreed to a resolution regarding disposal of the dredged material from the Port. We can now move on and work together to protect and restore our Great Lakes.” ###
02.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Commerce released its long awaited and long-delayed report on illegal dumping of steel on the U.S. market. “Though, thoughtful and prudent action must be weighed carefully, the release of this report, is a good step,” said Kaptur. “While the delays have been frequent and frustrating, I commend the Administration on a thorough report and Secretary Ross’s attention to communities that have been devastated by a rigged global market.” “Now that this report is public, Congress and the American people can be on the same page when it comes to what remedies the President is seeking to deter the illegal dumping of foreign steel. Steelmaking communities like those in Northern Ohio are hurting Mr. President, we must not delay action any further,” Kaptur concluded. The report contains Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s recommendations for tariffs and quotas targeting nations long known for steel dumping such as, Russia, China, South Korea and Vietnam. Read the report here, which mentions Lorain specifically and includes Kaptur’s testimony from last May to the Department of Commerce. The report was the result of President Trump initiating an investigation through the Department of Commerce to look into actions the federal government could take to keep illegal foreign steel from disrupting U.S. steel markets and harming American workers. In August of last year, Kaptur wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter came after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June of 2017, a self-imposed deadline that was missed by more than six months. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. Last year, Kaptur, along with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) invited Secretary Ross to visit Lorain. ###
02.15.2018	CLEVELAND – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of Ohio’s delegation in Congress and a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee which oversees government spending, today applauded the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s award for diesel pollution reduction projects in Cuyahoga, Lucas and Geauga Counties. EPA gave three Ohio organizations a total of $1,967,000 in Diesel Emissions Reduction Act grants, which have been combined with $3.2 million in matching funds from project partners to reduce diesel emissions from paratransit buses, refuse haulers, terminal tractors, and tug/tow boats. “The funding awarded through the EPA’s Diesel Emissions Reduction Act grants will help clean our air and reduce the amount of harmful pollutants that Ohioans breathe,” said Kaptur. “For the large number of people who live in Ohio with chronic lung diseases, like asthma, bronchitis and emphysema, this effort will help to improve their lives. Not only will the pollution reduction improve lives, it can save lives - the World Health Organization reported that railroad workers and truck drivers exposed to diesel emissions show that these workers have been found to tend to have a 20 to 40 percent higher incidence of lung cancer. Diesel pollution can compromise public health and these awards will allow for cleaner air and will also promote strong economic activity with upgraded equipment for our Ohio businesses.” EPA awarded the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority a $750,000 Diesel Emissions Reduction Act to replace older marine engines with new, cleaner engines as part of a two-for-one vessel replacement project. The Great Lakes Towing Company is providing matching funds of $1.1 million and will replace four 1940’s-era single engine tugboats with two new dual-engine tugboats. These new tugboats meet the current EPA standards for a significant reduction in diesel emissions. In addition, the EPA awarded the American Lung Association a $1 million grant to replace three diesel-powered terminal tractors owned by Nolan Logistics with zero-emissions electric vehicles for use at a distribution center in Lucas County and also replacement trucks owned by Waste Management in Geauga County. Both Nolan Logistics and Waste Management are providing $1.8 million to the projects. More information on the Midwest Clean Diesel Initiative can be found here, and additional information about EPA’s Clean Diesel program can be found here. ###
02.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – The Co-Chairs of the House Great Lakes Task Force, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Congressman Sean Duffy (WI-07) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25) and Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition Co-Chairs, Congressman David P. Joyce (OH-14) and Rick Nolan (MN-08), released the following statement after news President Trump’s budget would cut the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative by 90%, from $300 million to $30 million. “The bipartisan Great Lakes delegation is united in its support of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative which has made so much progress in cleaning up the largest surface freshwater system in the world,” said the Co-Chairs. “Much work remains, however, to deal with both the legacy pollutants as well as the new threats of harmful algal blooms and invasive species like Asian carp. Therefore, we were all very disappointed to see that the President’s budget once again fails to recognize the value of GLRI and the importance of the Lakes to our region. We look forward to working together, once again, to provide necessary funding for the health and safety of our Great Lakes.” The House Great Lakes Task Force is a bipartisan group that works across the Great Lakes region to ensure the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. ###
02.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of Ohio’s delegation in Congress and a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee which oversees government spending, issued the following statement after the release of President Trump’s budget. “This budget slashes and cuts without regard for how it will impact the hardworking people of our Nation,” said Kaptur. “While billionaires and corporations are still celebrating their tax giveaway, this President seems intent on cutting vital programs such as Social Security, Medicaid, nutrition assistance, clean energy, Great Lakes restoration and on and on. This budget is about as unrealistic as it is cruel.” “I look forward to working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to ensure a collaborative budget that maintains the bipartisan priorities that the American people rely on,” Kaptur concluded. Read an overview of President Trump’s budget from the Democratic House Budget Committee here. Additionally, the President’s budget also slashes the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative by 90% (see Kaptur tweet), leaving only $30 million of the $300 million that was restored thanks to the bipartisan leadership of Kaptur and other members of the House Great Lakes Task Force. ###
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, which is in charge of all government spending bills, released the following statement regarding passage of the bipartisan budget deal: “My vote in support of this bill avoids another prolonged, needless and expensive government shutdown. It assures a measure of stability in the operations of the federal departments of the United States for two years. Though very far from a perfect bill, to further delay vital decisions was not in America’s interests. “Our economy faces major challenges, and our Nation is at war. Lives are at stake abroad and here at home, millions of Americans need assurance of their health and pension security. This bill avoids more uncertainty and the fits and starts that have characterized the federal domain for far too long. Additionally, the bill takes a positive step to create a select bipartisan committee to craft a solution for 10 million workers and retirees whose pensions are at risk of being cut. “It is my fervent hope that the unfinished business of the Nation — such as steady, job growth and pension security, affordable medicines, infrastructure improvements, arresting the opioid epidemic, easing the pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and undocumented workers, affordable education, and relieving America’s growing debt load — will be advanced more easily now that this measure has passed both the House and Senate. “For the moment, the overheated, partisan wrangling has been put on the shelf. Congress has met its Constitutional obligation.” ###
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) issued a statement applauding a letter from Congressman Brad Schneider (D-IL), Congressman Bill Huizenga (R-MI) and a group of 24 bipartisan colleagues, urging a prompt and on-time completion of the Brandon Road Study, a critical milestone for a project by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to prevent invasive Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. “I applaud this bipartisan effort to prioritize protecting the Great Lakes from Asian carp,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), one of the recipients of the letter and Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “Our coalition to protect the Lakes and address our many shared challenges grows stronger by the day. I commend my colleagues on their letter, and I will make sure it receives attention on the Appropriations Committee.” “I’m proud to represent the largest stretch of Lake Michigan in Illinois, and the Great Lakes form an integral part of our local economy, environment, and quality of life,” said Congressman Brad Schneider (D-IL). “We have seen up close the damage wreaked by invasive species such as zebra mussels, and it’s crucial we prevent Asian carp from reaching our lakes. Upgrading the dam and lock system at the Brandon Road site represents our best opportunity to stop the destructive spread of Asian carp. I urge the Appropriations Committee to consider our bipartisan request and include language keeping this project on track.” “It is my hope the Army Corps of Engineers is making significant progress on finalizing the Brandon Road Study,” said Congressman Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “At a minimum, the Corps must meet its stated deadline of completing and releasing the Chief’s Report by February 2019. Given the gravity of the situation, I hope the Corps will present its findings even sooner than anticipated. It is widely accepted that if Asian carp are able to enter the Great Lakes, it will be nearly impossible to repair the damage done to the ecosystem as well as the economy. Time is of the essence and we cannot afford any further delays.” The letter is addressed to Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY), as well as Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development Chairman Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). It urges the Committee to include language in any Fiscal Year 2018 federal funding agreement to direct the USACE to complete and release the Chief’s Report Milestone by February 2019. The letter is available online here: Schneider Huizenga Asian Carp Appropriations 20180208.pdf The letter was signed by Reps. Jack Bergman (R-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Mike Gallagher (R-WI), Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Brian Higgins (D-NY), David P. Joyce (R-OH), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Robert E. Latta (R-OH), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Paul Mitchell (R-MI), Richard M. Nolan (D-MN), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jim Renacci (R-OH), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Elise M. Stefanik (R-NY), David A. Trott (R-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI), Tim Walberg (R-MI), and Timothy J. Walz (D-MN). ###
02.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of Ohio’s delegation in Congress, issued the following statement regarding news that the Ohio state legislature passed bipartisan redistricting reform that will now be on the May 8, 2018, ballot for public approval. “This measure has been years in the making. The people of Ohio deserve credit for keeping the pressure up and getting us this far,” said Kaptur. “This is a good step for our democracy and for the people of Ohio. Fair districts would keep communities together, not stretch them apart creating unnecessary division in our politics. The work is not done, as Ohioans must approve the measure on the May 8th ballot. I am honored to be on the side of ensuring fair maps that foster competition and dialogue instead of backroom dealmaking that sells Ohioans short.”
02.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) wrote to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Scott Gottlieb regarding the current shortage of IV saline and other critical medical products. The shortage resulted from the devastation Hurricane Maria wrought on Puerto Rico’s many major manufacturing facilities. Months after the storm, many of these factories still lack full and consistent access to power. At the height of the deadliest flu season in recent history, the shortage threatens to further endanger public health. The lawmakers’ letter urges the FDA to use all tools at its disposal to address these dire shortages, and calls for information regarding the FDA’s response to the shortage of IV saline. IV saline is used for critical medical procedures, including rehydration and delivery of medications. Key excerpts from the letter: “The ongoing shortage of medical products manufactured in Puerto Rico, specifically small volume IV fluid bags, has created a nationwide public health scare during the height of a severe flu season,” said the letter. “…a shortage of IV fluids was documented by the FDA and has persisted since January 2014. As of October 2017, no drug or medical product manufacturers in Puerto Rico were operating at higher than 70 percent capacity. Baxter is one of only three U.S. companies that manufacture IV bags, and the last of their facilities in Puerto Rico were only recently reconnected to the fragile power grid,” the letter continued. “To avoid any further harm to consumers, we request that the FDA use every authority at its disposal to address this crisis and present a plan to ensure immediate and sustained production of IV bags that also provides sufficient guidance to mitigate cost increases,” the letter concluded. “…providers in our states have voiced concerns over the uncertainty of when these products will become available and when a long-term solution to this shortage will be implemented.” The letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 29 U.S. Senators and 63 U.S Representatives. Read the entire letter here. What did the letter ask for? What steps has the FDA taken to prevent new shortages of other medical products manufactured in Puerto Rico? Is the approval of new suppliers of saline permanent or temporary, and what would trigger a change in this status as current suppliers eliminate shortages? When does the FDA expect these products to become widely available? Does the FDA have the tools necessary to increase the nation’s supply of saline and other IV fluids? If not, will you please provide detailed ways in which Congress can assist? What steps is the FDA taking to ensure manufacturers are creating contingency strategies to avoid future shortfalls? Is the FDA coordinating with other agencies aiding in Puerto Rico’s recovery to ensure the rebuilding of its critical infrastructure adequately address the operational needs of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers? ###
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Committee, which has oversight over the U.S. Department of Energy and National Nuclear Security Agency and a senior member of the House Defense Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding the Nuclear Posture Review released by the Department of Defense today: “As one of the world's two nuclear superpowers, along with Russia, the United States maintains a grave responsibility to not only protect human life from catastrophic nuclear disaster but also the responsibility to move toward the elimination of nuclear weapons. "Unfortunately, Russia has violated the terms of nuclear arms agreements as well as expanded its nuclear forces. In the face of this Russian aggression, the U.S. must maintain a strong and credible deterrent while not reigniting the nuclear arms race. We must engage diplomatically on nuclear issues. "Any proposal to alter the composition of our nuclear arsenal will necessitate a significant increase in the defense budget or require shifting funds from vitally important programs. Just to maintain and modernize our current nuclear capability requires roughly $40 billion annually and we cannot shortchange those efforts nor the priorities of Americans here at home. “I hope that President Trump's 2019 budget proposal reveals the missing details on the feasibility and fiscal impact of this proposed shift and I look forward to the debate as to what Congressional support is appropriate.” ###
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) issued the following joint statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s efforts to put forth a harmful rule that would make it legal for employers’ to take a portion of workers earned tips. Additionally, the Labor Department has come under fire for reportedly shelving an internal government study that detailed how the proposed rule would harm workers who earn tips, like servers and bartenders, while also asserting in their rollout materials they were unaware of how the rule would impact workers. “We are extremely concerned with the lack of transparency and efforts to misinform the public regarding this pending Department of Labor rule,” said the Members. “The way the rule is currently worded does nothing to protect the hard-earned pay from workers across Ohio and our Nation, in fact, it takes us backward. The U.S. government, especially the Department of Labor, should stand on the side of our workers, not help greedy companies reach into their pockets for their hard-earned wages. We urge this Administration to scrap this rule and go back to the drawing board.” According to a study from the Economic Policy Institute, American workers would lose $5.8 billion annually and Ohio workers could lose an estimated $224 million if the Department of Labor’s rule is finalized. ###
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Congresswoman Jenniffer González-Colón (R-PR), led 29 Senators and 63 Representatives in a letter to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Scott Gottlieb regarding the current shortage of IV saline and other critical medical products. The shortage resulted from the devastation Hurricane Maria wrought on Puerto Rico’s many major manufacturing facilities and, along with one of the potential deadliest flu seasons in recent history, the shortage has fueled a public health scare. In some instances, it took months for manufacturers to be reconnected to Puerto Rico’s fragile power grid. While the FDA has already taken immediate steps to address the shortage, Congress and the Administration must work in unison towards a long-term solution. The lawmakers’ letter urges FDA to use all tools at its disposal to address these dire shortages and requests information regarding the agency’s response to the shortage of IV saline. IV saline is used for critical medical procedures, including rehydration and delivery of medications. Key excerpts from the letter: “The ongoing shortage of medical products manufactured in Puerto Rico, specifically small volume IV fluid bags, has created a nationwide public health scare during the height of a severe flu season.” “Puerto Rico plays an important role in supporting American public health. Nearly 80 pharmaceutical companies in Puerto Rico manufacture approximately 10 percent of all drugs consumed by Americans, and this sector represents an important part of the commonwealth’s economy... These shortages have underscored Puerto Rico’s critical role after major manufacturing facilities were damaged or temporarily closed in the wake of Hurricane Maria. In light of this, we urge you to use all tools at your disposal to address these dire shortages…” “We understand the FDA has taken steps to attempt to remedy this crisis by allowing the importation of saline products from other countries and by also approving new saline products. However, providers in our states have voiced concerns over the uncertainty of when these products will become available and when a long-term solution to this shortage will be implemented.” Read the entire letter here: Bipartisan Saline Products FDA Letter 02022018.pdf What did the letter ask for? What steps has the FDA taken to prevent new shortages of other medical products manufactured in Puerto Rico? Is the approval of new suppliers of saline permanent or temporary, and what would trigger a change in this status as current suppliers eliminate shortages? When does the FDA expect these products to become widely available? Does the FDA have the tools necessary to increase the nation’s supply of saline and other IV fluids? If not, will you please provide detailed ways in which Congress can assist? What steps is the FDA taking to ensure manufacturers are creating contingency strategies to avoid future shortfalls? Is the FDA coordinating with other agencies aiding in Puerto Rico’s recovery to ensure the rebuilding of its critical infrastructure adequately address the operational needs of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers? A full list of additional cosigners below: House (61): Allen (R-GA), Barragan (D-CA), Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Carter (R-GA), Crowley (D-NY), Curbelo (R-FL), DeLauro (D-CT), DelBene (D-WA), Dent (R-PA), DeFazio (D-OR), Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Espaillat (D-NY), Fudge (D-OH), Gabbard (D-HI), Gonzalez (D-TX), Goodlatte (R-VA), Grijalva (D-AZ), Gutierrez (D-IL), Higgins (D-NY), Johnson (D-GA), Joyce (R-OH), Keating (D-MA), Kelly (R-AP), Kilmer (D-WA), King (R-NY), Larson (D-CT), Lipinski (D-IL), Lieu (D-CA), Lewis (D-GA), Lofgren (D-CA), Lowenthal (D-CA), Lynch (D-MA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), McGovern (D-MA), McSally (R-AZ), Meng (D-NY), Moulton (D-MA), Nadler (D-NY), Norton (D-DC), O’Rourke (D-TX), Payne (D-NJ), Pingree (D-ME), Pocan (D-WI), Raskin (D-MD), Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Rothfus (R-PA), Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Serrano (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Smucker (R-PA), Soto (D-FL), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Tonko (D-NY), Tsongas (D-MA), Veasey (D-TX), Velazquez (D-NY), Walters (R-CA), Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Watson Coleman (D-NJ), and Wilson (D-FL). Senate (27): Baldwin (D-WI), Barrasso (R-WY), Boozman (R-AR), Brown (D-OH), Carper (D-DE), Collins (R-ME), Coons (D-DE), Cornyn (R-TX), Duckworth (D-IL), Enzi (R-WY), Gillibrand (D-NY), Harris (D-CA), Hoeven (R-ND), Isakson (R-GA), Johnson (R-WI), Lankford (R-OK), Merkley (D-OR), Murphy (D-CT), McCaskill (D-MO), Menendez (D-NJ), Moran (R-KS), Nelson (D-FL), Perdue (R-GA), Rounds (R-SD), Thune (R-SD), Tester (D-MT), and Wicker (R-MS). Contact: Kaptur, (202) 225-4146 Blumenthal, (202) 224-6452 Rubio, (202) 224-3041 González-Colón, (202) 225-2615 ###
02.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) today strongly condemned reported efforts by the Trump Administration to cut clean energy research at the Department of Energy. “To every American who works in clean energy or cares about our environment, know that there is a coalition in Congress working to build on America’s progress in energy production and job creation in the clean energy sector of our economy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The White House proposal to slash funding at a time when new energy alternatives are needed more than ever is short sided and will be met with great resistance in the Congress. Our long-term energy goals should be to keep America strong, independent and competitive around the world. Ceding ground on solar, wind or other path-breaking technologies is both foolhardy and dangerous.” “It is disappointing, but not surprising, that the Administration again intends to push Congress for thoughtless and damaging cuts to clean energy research,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee. “Clean energy research holds boundless potential to grow our economy and improve the way we develop and consume energy, and abandoning this research would surrender this emerging industry to competitors around the world. The Administration is apparently intent on ensuring its upcoming budget request is dismissed even more quickly than its last one was.” The FY2017 enacted funding level for Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) is $2.1 billion. FY2018 funding levels have yet to be determined due to Republican leadership’s failure to reach a budget agreement and repeated reliance on Continuing Resolutions. The reported draft FY2019 budget request would propose cutting EERE funding by 72 percent. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Co-Chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus and senior member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, released the following joint statement regarding news that the Trump Administration would not implement strong sanctions called for by Congress’ bipartisan passage of sanctions legislation last year. “We are deeply disappointed with the Administration’s decision to forgo sanctions on more Russian oligarchs and Putin courtiers, particularly those who threaten liberty’s most cherished freedoms, democratic institutions and security, both public and private. The Administration claims that the mere threat of sanctions acts as a deterrent. We disagree. “It is clear that Russian aggression continues across Europe, and senior members of the U.S. intelligence and defense community have stated repeatedly there has been no significant diminishing of Russian attempts to sow division around the world, and use cyber weapons to damage our nation’s institutions. “Words alone are not enough. We urge our colleagues in Congress to recommit in holding Russia accountable and call on the Administration to sanction the Russian oligarchs.” ###
01.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement regarding news that Canada would invest an estimated $16 million (USD) to expand its program to combat Asian Carp: “This investment is welcome news to everyone in our Great Lakes Heartland who is committed to protecting our Lakes,” said Kaptur. “I know from conversations I have had with Canadian officials that they are equally committed to protecting our Lakes and keeping the carp out. Let’s hope the Trump Administration takes notice of Canada’s commitment and we can get full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in 2018 and beyond, and quick action on the Brandon Road Study’s recommendations to stop this harmful invasive species from devastating our Great Lakes.” Kaptur recently sent comments to the Administration as they consider action on the Brandon Road Study and has been a leader in the House in efforts to pressure the Administration to act in an expedited manner to keep the Asian carp out of the Great Lakes. ###
01.23.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, led a bipartisan group of eight Midwestern lawmakers in a letter to President Donald Trump seeking support for the Hyperloop Transportation Initiative — a grant program to accelerate the development of this technology and the opportunities it could create for Ohio and other Midwest states. From the letter: “As you develop the fiscal year 2019 budget, we urge you to include $20 million for the Hyperloop Transportation Initiative — a grant program to accelerate the innovation, business growth and job creation that will be enabled by this revolutionary transportation system,” the Members wrote. “We request your leadership in establishing the Hyperloop Transportation Initiative through the Department of Transportation. Specifically, this Initiative would work to help shape regulation and legislation; fund competitive grants for feasibility studies in centralized locations where there is the highest transportation demand; support research and development for universities and companies to develop various parts of the Hyperloop system; and connect stakeholders to ensure a smooth implementation of the Hyperloop alongside existing transportation systems,” the Members concluded. The letter was signed by Reps. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), and Mike Doyle (D-PA). View the letter here: Bipartisan Hyperloop Letter 2018.pdf “We are thrilled to be collaborating with partners that have vision and are at the forefront of this technology, such as members of the Northeast Ohio legislative delegation Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and Congressman Bob Gibbs,” said Grace Gallucci, Executive Director of the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA) – the metropolitan planning organization for greater Cleveland. At NOACA, we believe in investing in projects that promote mobility options and improve quality of life,” Gallucci continued. “As a new fifth mode of transportation, the Hyperloop has the potential to become truly transformative for our region and for the country!” ###
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and Dean of the Ohio Delegation, issued the following statement after voting YES on the House passage of a three-week spending bill: “What matters most at this juncture is reopening the government of the United States to serve the American people. Funding the government is the sworn obligation of Congress, and I cast my vote despite serious misgivings. “We must work hard over the next three weeks to make sure we are not in the same boat we are now, and though we temporarily moved past this self-inflicted crisis, this bill is half-a-loaf for the American people. “We still need to address a long list of bipartisan priorities including a long-term budget for the government, providing relief for millions of retirees whose pensions are at risk and funding community health centers, which are a lifeline in Ohio. “I am pleased this measure included vital funding for the children’s health program, but with each temporary spending bill, it is more and more clear that the GOP-led budget process is completely broken and they are unable to govern. “The only way we are going to change the dysfunction in Washington is if citizens across this country rise up and make sure their voices are being heard.” Kaptur had urged that pension relief be a part of a funding bill and has been a leader in the House urging action on the Butch Lewis Act, which would provide help to millions of retirees who are at risk of losing their earned pension benefits. Kaptur shared the stories of Ohio retirees who whose pensions are at risk if Congress does not act soon (click here for more). Also, last week Kaptur slammed Trump Administration Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney after he derided efforts to provide pension relief to millions of retirees by calling it a “bailout.” ###
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), slammed Trump Administration Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney after he derided efforts to provide pension relief to millions of retirees by calling it a “bailout.” See that clip here. “Despite this Administration’s obsession with cutting Wall Street regulations and providing tax cuts to billionaires, Mr. Mulvaney needs to look into the mirror and remember who he works for, and that is the American people,” said Kaptur. “This is not a bailout, this is money workers have set aside from their pay while working so that now as retirees, they can have retirement security from their pension. Workers have paid into these pensions for 30, 40 or sometimes 50 years. The President and his budget chief owe our retirees some respect here. They seek no handout, just their due.” Kaptur has been a leader in the House urging passage of the Butch Lewis Act to provide pension relief to retirees who are at risk of losing their earned benefits. “Mr. President, our people need the relief you promised on the campaign trail. The threat of pension cuts became a reality thanks to a last-minute budget push, and now we need to make these workers whole,” Kaptur concluded. This week Kaptur shared the stories of Ohio retirees who whose pensions are at risk if Congress does not act soon (click here for more). ###
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, issued the following statement after news that President Trump would cut funding of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) by 95%. The ONDCP not only provides the annual strategy to reducing illicit drug use, drug trafficking and crime, and related health consequences, it also administers funding programs that are vital to achieving those objectives. “More than 91 people die every single day as a result of the scourge of the opioid epidemic, and sadly Ohio leads the Nation in opioid overdose deaths per capita,” said Kaptur. “Every American needs to know that this Administration will live up to its promise, and put aside politics to address this epidemic. This move is more evidence the Trump Administration has no plan to provide real relief and resources to people who are suffering.” There were more than 5,000 drug overdose deaths estimated in the last 12 months in Ohio. In 2016, more than 63,600 people died from drug overdoses – more lives than were lost in the entire Vietnam War. The ONDCP helps support the following in Ohio: Lucas, Lorain, and Cuyahoga counties all have been designated High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas which facilitates coordination among federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to share information and design strategies and operations to reduce the supply of illegal drugs in designated areas and in the U.S. as a whole. Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program helps communities to prevent or reduce substance use in youth by providing grants to community coalitions. The Erie County Health Department through and the Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Lorain County both received DFC grants in FY 17. Also, the ONDCP supports drug court programs in Ohio, of which there are 113. Drug courts are a critical local tool to divert non-violent offenders with substance use problems from jails or prisons into treatment programs with accountability. Additionally, in May of 2017, Kaptur and 70 Members of the House wrote to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and urged him to maintain funding for the ONDCP in the Trump Administration’s FY2018 Budget, after initial reports the Administration would slash the ONDCP’s budget. ###
01.17.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after news that U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has withdrawn its approval of Ohio EPA’s assessment of the state’s list of impaired waterways. That assessment failed to address the open waters of Lake Erie. U.S. EPA had previously accepted both Ohio’s and Michigan’s assessments even though Michigan had designated the open waters of Lake Erie as impaired, while Ohio had refused to do so. U.S. EPA now considers the Ohio assessment to be “incomplete.” Read the full letter here: USEPA Withdrawal Letter 1.12.18.pdf “EPA’s decision to reconsider the status of the open waters of Lake Erie is right on. There is no magic line between the impaired Lake Erie waters of Michigan and Ohio,” said Kaptur, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This is simple, Lake Erie should be designated as impaired because it is. This past summer 1,000 square miles of the Lake were covered in green slime – even a child can see the Lake is impaired. The State of Ohio has proven time and again that it has more excuses than solutions. We hope Governor Kasich and the Ohio EPA will join us in welcoming the U.S. EPA’s input and expertise in helping return our Great Lake to great health.” “With this change of heart, EPA is finally taking a first step toward protect the drinking water 11 million people in Michigan, Ohio and throughout the Great Lakes region rely upon,” said Dingell. “Failure to recognize these waters as impaired puts public health and the Great Lakes economy at risk. There is no line of separation in Lake Erie, and it is clear that EPA must take a proactive approach in confronting this challenge facing the entire region.” In November of 2016, Dingell and Kaptur teamed up to send a letter to the EPA urging them to disregard Ohio’s determination and list the waters as officially impaired. Kaptur and Dingell reiterated this call last May. This move appears to be in response to a lawsuit filed by environmental groups in federal court with the U.S. Northern District of Ohio Judge James Carr to order the U.S. EPA to formally rule the western basin of Lake Erie impaired. ###
01.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), today issued the following statement regarding the section 232 steel report sent by the U.S. Department of Commerce to President Trump. “Now that the section 232 report has finally been delivered to the President, he has 90 days to act. One thing has not changed since the investigation began is that steelworkers and communities like Lorain, Ohio, who have been battered by job losses, need relief now,” said Kaptur. “After delays and a missed deadline by this Administration, I call on the President and his team to brief Congress on the report’s findings and to provide an expedited plan of action to ensure that the U.S. takes an appropriate response to the well-documented manipulation of the global steel market by countries like China and Russia,” concluded Kaptur. The report was the result of President Trump initiating an investigation through the Department of Commerce to look into actions the federal government could take to keep illegal foreign steel from disrupting U.S. steel markets and harming American workers. In August of last year, Kaptur wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter came after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June of 2017, a self-imposed deadline that was missed by more than six months. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. ###
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, spoke at a press conference at the U.S. Supreme Court to defend the constitutional rights of Ohioans who have been purged from voter rolls and to condemn the clear voter suppression implicit in denying eligible citizens access to the ballot box. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Institute. The case revolves around Larry Harmon, who tried to vote in an Ohio local election in 2015 only to find that the state had removed him from the voter rolls because he had not voted since 2008. “The Justices here will decide how far states can go in purging their election rolls. Voting should be easy. There should not be barriers of any kind to cast a ballot, and that includes being purged,” said Kaptur. “When our forefathers founded this country, they certainly didn’t stipulate that our democracy should be hidden behind a barbed wire fence. Ultimately, what is right will prevail,” Kaptur concluded. You can watch Kaptur’s entire speech here. Also, Kaptur met with Oak Harbor, Ohio Mayor Joe Helle, a veteran and public servant was purged from the voter rolls. Watch that conversation here. ###
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. — As one of her first actions in 2018, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), the longest-serving woman in Congress and Dean of the Ohio Delegation, took to the House floor to urge Congress and President Donald Trump to act and provide pension relief to thousands of retirees and workers through the bipartisan Butch Lewis Act of 2017. “Congress needs to step up and secure the pension benefits these workers have earned,” said Kaptur in her floor speech. “And there should be no pension cuts for workers who contributed to their own plans, and should have a right to the money that they invested.” “Congress can no longer kick the can down the road. This problem does not go away if Congress continues to ignore it. Rather the financial stress mounts for the retirement funds and of course for the retirees and their families,” Kaptur continued. Watch the video here. In December, Kaptur sent a bipartisan letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI), requesting action to address the looming crisis in America’s private pensions, which puts the retirement of millions at risk. The letter was signed by Reps. David B. McKinley (R-WV), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Don Young (R-AK). Read the full letter here. Recently Kaptur shared the stories of several retirees and workers who discussed the importance of their pension and how many retirees have paid into this earned benefit for 30 plus years. Watch those videos here. BACKGROUND: Kaptur is a cosponsor of several efforts to address the pension crisis and is a leader in Congress to protect the pensions of millions of Americans whose retirement is at risk through no fault of their own. In December 2014, amidst the threat of a government shutdown, Congress approved and President Obama signed a spending bill that included non-germane provisions that allowed for dramatic cuts to financially troubled multiemployer pensions. Under this provision, the pension benefits of retirees could be cut by 70 percent or more after a complicated set of reviews and Treasury Department approvals were completed. Before the law was changed, it was illegal for an employer to cut the pension benefits retirees had earned. Kaptur has championed the Butch Lewis Act and her bill, the Keep our Pension Promises Act, which establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multiemployer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. For a one-pager on KOPPA bill click here. ###
12.22.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), sent a bipartisan letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI), requesting action to address the looming crisis in America’s private pensions, which puts the retirement of millions at risk. The letter was signed by Reps. David B. McKinley (R-WV), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Don Young (R-AK). “America’s largest multi-employer pension plans face a looming stability crisis that requires immediate action. The retirement income on which millions of Americans depend is in jeopardy as plans like the United Mine Workers Pension Fund, the Central States Fund, and many others lurch toward insolvency. If serious discussion about a solution does not begin imminently, the options available to provide relief will become less flexible, and their cost will grow,” said the Members. “We urge you, Mr. Speaker, to support us in the coming months and please give this issue the courtesy of being heard and addressed,” the Members concluded. Read the full letter here: 12-21-17 Pension Caucus Letter to Ryan - Signed.pdf Recently Kaptur shared the stories of several retirees and workers who discussed the importance of their pension and how they have paid into this earned benefit for more than 30 years. Watch those videos here. BACKGROUND: Kaptur is a cosponsor of several efforts to address the pension crisis and is a leader in Congress to protect the pensions of millions of Americans whose retirement is at risk through no fault of their own. In December 2014, Congress approved and the president signed a spending bill that included provisions that allow for dramatic cuts to financially troubled multiemployer pensions. Under this provision, the pension benefits of retirees could be cut by 70 percent or more. Before the law was changed, it was illegal for an employer to cut the pension benefits retirees had earned. Kaptur has championed the Butch Lewis Act and her bill, the Keep our Pension Promises Act, which establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multiemployer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. For a one-pager on KOPPA bill click here. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and 171 Members of Congress, sent a letter to the Deputy Attorney General of the United States, Rod J. Rosenstein, to express their support for the investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III. The effort was led by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43). “We write to express our support for the work of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and to urge you to ensure that he be allowed to continue his investigation – unfettered by political influence or threats to his authority – to its natural and appropriate conclusion based on the law, the facts, and the evidence,” the Members wrote. Kaptur spoke at a press conference which you can watch here (Kaptur speaks at the 10 min mark). Special Counsel Mueller was appointed by Mr. Rosenstein on May 17, 2017 to lead an investigation into important matters arising out of the 2016 elections, including “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.” However, despite Mr. Mueller’s record of integrity, established through his previous service as the FBI Director for 12 years over two presidential administrations, and the clear progress that Mr. Mueller is making in his investigation, the partisan media, Republican Members of Congress and President Donald Trump, himself, have attempted to undermine Mr. Mueller’s investigation by advancing a false narrative that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation is biased. Read the full text of the letter here: 2017-12-21 Letter from 171 MOCs to DOJ Rosenstein.pdf
12.21.2017	Toledo, OH — Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), congratulated Ms. Micah Inak of Lakewood High School, Lakewood, OH and Mr. Ben Car of Bowsher High School, Toledo, OH for receiving the Downtown Toledo Coffee Cup Award as a result of their participation in the Ninth Congressional District Invitational Art Exhibition. The awards will be presented today at 4:00 p.m. at Claro Coffee Bar, 1801 Adams Street, Toledo, Ohio. “The student artwork we received this year showed great skill from many young artists throughout the region, and I commend each of our participants for their creativity and initiative.” said Kaptur. “Micah’s and Ben’s work stood out among the many compelling pieces we reviewed. The Arts uplift all of us and we are fortunate to have such talent in the Ninth Congressional District.” The Ninth Congressional District Invitational Art Exhibition is hosted each year by Rep. Kaptur and The Arts Commission. The theme of today’s Art Loop is “Light Up Toledo” in celebration of the holiday season. The artwork of the winners of the Art Exhibition will be on display, as well as artwork and creative talent by local artists throughout various venues in Downtown Toledo that are showcased during the Art Loop. The public is encouraged to attend the Art Loop today to support local artists. Below are the coffee cups that have been created for the winners of the Downtown Toledo Coffee Cup Award which will be on display at the event today. The title of Ms. Inak’s work is “I Have Rivers On My Mind”. The title of Mr. Car’s work is “Puzzled”.
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today issued the following statement after the House passed the final version of the GOP tax proposal: “This bill does nothing to guarantee higher wages, create good jobs or even to prevent corporations from outsourcing jobs. This scam gives the bulk of its trillion-dollar windfall to real estate investors and the millionaire donor class. Where is the middle-class windfall? “The American people deserve better than this tax deal that was negotiated in secret and rammed through Congress in a matter of weeks. Tax cuts for the rich won’t grow the economy nor will it provide relief to the millions of Ohioans who need a leg up.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Members of Congress from 18 states targeted by Russian hackers in 2016 called on House Speaker Paul Ryan to take immediate action to protect state voting systems from cyberattacks and to bolster state election infrastructure. In a letter, the Members asked Speaker Ryan to request a briefing from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about Russian cyberattacks on state election systems in 2016. The letter also urged Speaker Ryan to direct all relevant House committees to investigate the attacks and to support bipartisan legislation to strengthen the security of state election systems around the country. “When a sovereign nation attempts to meddle in our elections, it is an attack on our country,” the Members wrote. “The attacks in 2016 were not a one-off occurrence. In March 2017, then-FBI Director James Comey testified before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that: ‘[T]hey’ll be back. They’ll be back in 2020. They may be back in 2018.’ … The threat remains, and Congress must act.” Ohio was among the 21 states whose election systems were targeted by Russian hackers in 2016. To date, the Republican-led Congress has not held any hearings or opened any investigations into the Russian cyberattacks. It has also failed to take up any legislation to help improve the security and integrity of state voting systems. See below for a full copy of the letter: Letter_To_Speaker_Ryan_On_Election_Security_FINAL.pdf * * * The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker: We represent 18 of the 21 states whose elections were targeted by Russian hackers in 2016, and we write because we are deeply concerned about the security of America’s election infrastructure. Fair, free, and secure elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you ask DHS and the FBI to brief all Members of Congress on the Russian attack on 21 states voting systems, direct the relevant Congressional committees to investigate this attack, and seek bipartisan solutions to secure our elections going forward. The attacks in 2016 were not a one-off occurrence. In March 2017, then-FBI Director James Comey testified before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that: “[T]hey’ll be back. They’ll be back in 2020. They may be back in 2018.”[1] Days before the 2017 elections, Bob Kolasky, the acting Deputy Undersecretary of the National Protection and Programs Directorate at the Department of Homeland Security said, “We saw in 2016 that Russia had an intent to be involved in our elections and some capability to be active or to attempt to be active in scanning election systems. We have not seen any evidence that intent or capability has changed.”[2] The threat remains, and Congress must act. Over the past six months, the Election Security Task Force, comprised of Democratic Members of the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on House Administration, has conducted an in-depth examination of America’s voting systems. The Task Force’s preliminary findings demonstrate that this issue needs urgent, bipartisan attention. Our voting machines can easily be hacked. In July, at DefCon, one of the world’s largest, longest-running, and best-known hacker conferences, 25 pieces of election equipment were successfully breached by participants with little prior knowledge and limited tools.[3] In over 40 states, elections are carried out using voting machines that were purchased more than a decade ago.[4] These machines are now either obsolete or at the end of their useful life. Some of these machines rely on operating systems like Windows XP or Windows 2000 which pose a particularly significant security risk as those operating systems either do not receive regular security patches, or have stopped receiving support altogether.[5] These issues are exacerbated by the fact that twenty percent of Americans cast their ballot on voting machines that do not have any kind of paper backup.[6] In other words, if these paperless machines were hacked, it would be nearly impossible to tell.[7] State voter registration databases are also vulnerable to attack. In Illinois, hackers successfully breached registration databases and attempted, but failed, to alter and delete voting records.[8] In Arizona, hackers successfully installed malware on a county election official’s computer.[9] Russian hackers also targeted at least one election vendor with the hope of ultimately obtaining access into numerous state and local voter registration databases.[10] If these attacks had been successful, hackers would have been able to alter or delete voter registration records, causing a great deal of chaos on Election Day and potentially swaying the results of the election. State and local election officials are acutely aware of these issues, but many are struggling to get the necessary funding from their legislatures,[11] and are frustrated by Congressional inaction.[12] The plea for Congress to act is echoed by a bipartisan group of former government officials, academics and cyber security experts. Michael Chertoff, former Secretary of Homeland Security wrote in The Wall Street Journal, “[L]awmakers and election officials’ lackadaisical response is both staggering and distressing…This is a matter of national security, and Congress should treat it as such. Given that we’re still dealing with the unfunded mandates of 2002’s Help America Vote Act, there’s a clear need for action to upgrade security systems and create meaningful standards.” In June, a group of over 100 computer scientists and cyber experts wrote to Congress to take “simple, straightforward, and cost-effective actions to set meaningful standards to protect American elections.” [13] When a sovereign nation attempts to meddle in our elections, it is an attack on our country. We urge you to recognize that ensuring the security and integrity of our election system is a bipartisan issue, to request a briefing for all Members of Congress from DHS and the FBI, and to direct the relevant committees to open an investigation on securing America’s election infrastructure. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ### [1] United States Cong. House. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Open Hearing on Russian Active Measures Investigation, March 20, 2017. 115th Congress. 1st session, 2017. 2 Morgan Chalfant, “Homeland Security Cyber Unit on Alert for Election Day,” The Hill (Nov. 4, 2017), available at http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/358710-homeland-security-cyber-unit-on-alert-for-election-day. 3 Matt Blaze et al., DEFCON 25 Voting Machine Hacking Village: Rep. on Cyber Vulnerabilities in U.S. Election Equipment, Databases, and Infrastructure, 4 (2017) https://www.defcon.org/images/defcon-25/DEF%20CON%2025%20voting%20village%20report.pdf. 4 Lawrence Norden & Ian Vanderwalker, Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law, Securing Elections from Foreign Interference, 9 (2017). 5 Id. 6 Norden & Vandewalker, 11. 7 Eric Geller, Virginia Bars Voting Machines Considered Top Hacking Target, POLITICO (Sept. 8, 2017) http://www.politico.com/story/2017/09/08/virginia-election-machines-hacking-target-242492. 8 Pam Fessler, 10 Months After Election Day, Feds Tell States More About Russian Hacking, NPR (Sept. 22, 2017) https://www.npr.org/2017/09/22/552956517/ten-months-after-election-day-feds-tell-states-more-about-russian-hacking. 9 Id. 10 Matthew Cole et al., Top-Secret NSA Report Details Russian Hacking Effort Days Before 2016 Election, The Intercept (June 5, 2017) https://theintercept.com/2017/06/05/top-secret-nsa-report-details-russian-hacking-effort-days-before-2016-election/. 11 Cory Bennett et al., Cash-Strapped States Brace for Russian Hacking Fight, POLITICO (Sept. 3, 2017), http://www.politico.com/story/2017/09/03/election-hackers-russia-cyberattack-voting-242266. 12 Reid Wilson, Election Officials Race to Combat Cyberattacks, The Hill (Nov. 8, 2017) http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/359243-election-officials-race-to-combat-cyberattacks. 13 National Election Defense Coalition, Expert Sign-On Letter to Congress: Secure American Elections (2017). https://www.electiondefense.org/election-integrity-expert-letter/.
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), issued the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) decision to repeal Net Neutrality protections. “Repealing Net Neutrality is the opposite of President Trump’s promise to drain the swamp. Instead, the Trump Administration is taking America backward on key consumer protections and safeguards against corporate overreach,” said Kaptur. “As I have stated before, over the last several weeks I heard from citizens across Northern Ohio who have made their voices clear. They support Net Neutrality, and they support an internet that is open and free from overt meddling by big corporations to juice their profits,” Kaptur continued. This week Kaptur signed onto a letter with 118 colleagues urging the FCC to delay their vote in order to ensure that voices of the American people are heard. Additionally, Kaptur has announced support for an upcoming legislative effort by Congressman Mike Doyle of Pennsylvania that will reverse the FCC’s decision and codify Net Neutrality into law. ###
12.13.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest-serving woman in Congress, issued the following statement of congratulations regarding the election of Doug Jones as the new Senator from Alabama: “Congratulations to Senator-elect Doug Jones, and the citizens of Alabama, on their hard-fought victory for the future of Alabama and our nation. “His distinguished career as a reasoned and passionate voice for justice and the rule of law will well serve America’s highest aspirations. His election will help blot out the vitriol, prejudice and hate that underlaid this race and must be cleansed from our body politic.” ###
12.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) authored an op-ed in The Hill newspaper urging Canadian officials to join her and her colleagues in holding President Trump to his promises to American workers. Kaptur urged trade negotiators to create a new trade agreement that lifts workers and raises wages across the continent. Read the op-ed in The Hill below: If we put workers first, all three NAFTA nations will win in a new trade agreementBy Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio), Opinion Contributor — 12/11/17 11:30 AM EST For many members of Congress renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has been more than 20 years in the making. A chance to create a new trade model that benefits workers across the North American continent. I led the opposition to NAFTA in 1993, and have made trade a top priority in my tenure in Congress. It is not for a lack of support for global trade, but because trade must be an economic system that lifts economic prospects for all people. It must be fair. A drive through my district in Northern Ohio, spanning five counties from Toledo to Cleveland, is a reminder of the plight workers experienced following NAFTA’s passage. From shuttered factories, hollowed out neighborhoods, and chronic economic stress due to reduced income and outsourced jobs. In a recent letter to U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, I emphasized that the voices of workers from Ohio and our industrial heartland should guide this administration’s renegotiations process. This Summer I held a NAFTA renegotiation field hearing in Brook Park, Ohio near Cleveland. Testimony from the United Steelworkers, the United Auto Workers, National Farmers Union, Teamsters, the Blue Green Alliance, Sierra Club, and Policy Matters Ohio was consistent: put workers first. Though the situations and analysis varied, their stories were all too similar. Millions of Americans witnessed jobs disappear due to outsourcing, and with significant wage and benefit losses as a result of NAFTA’s economic impact. Northern Ohio families lost on average, $7,000 in annual wages since 1990! The U.S. has never achieved a trade balance with our NAFTA competitors. Indeed the red ink runs deep. Technically, in 2016 the U.S. had a $12.5 billion trade surplus with Canada when services are included. But if you look at just goods, the products that we make, that number flips into a $12.1 billion trade deficit with our neighbors to the North. Now with our neighbor to the South, according to data from the office of the U.S. Trade Representative, our overall trade deficit with Mexico in 2016 was $55.6 billion, and our goods deficit with Mexico is $63 billion. It is clear where our imbalance lies. Since NAFTA’s passage, the cumulative trade deficit with Mexico and Canada is well over $1 trillion which translates into thousands and thousands of lost jobs and lower wages for U.S. workers. We must stop these trade practices that snuff out American jobs and hurt our communities. My bill, the Balancing Trade Act, would require the administration to address the trade deficit seriously. Deficits aside, signals and statements from Canada hold promise in these renegotiations. Though we don’t agree on everything when it comes to trade, Canada’s statements urging the end of so-called “Right to Work” laws, which are anti-worker, as a part of NAFTA is positive. It is an affirmative statement of Canada’s values and the priorities of their government. In theory, each nation is going to represent itself and its elected leaders, but Canadian overtures on worker protections and worker’s rights holds value for all workers in all three nations. Additionally, there is promise we can find common ground to rid North America’s trade system of the corporate-friendly Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) system, which only further bloats transnational interests. Over the course of this year, I repeatedly called for the inclusion of a tri-party Independent Labor Secretariat, to ensure labor standards are enforced. This idea is supported by the AFL-CIO. Perhaps this idea is one our friends in Canada and Mexico can get behind. Having an instrument with a clear purpose to represent North American workers will help remedy labor inequities that vastly harmed workers across our continent. As we enter the next round of NAFTA negotiations, which are to take place in Washington, D.C. in December, I call on my counterparts in Canada to join me to fight for a continental compact that values workers and raises wages. Let us elevate the rule of law and democratic principles. The Trump administration has signaled its intent to follow through on President Donald Trump’s campaign rhetoric; our Canadian colleagues should join in holding his feet to the fire. We have a rare opportunity to attempt to finally focus on the workers. Now is not the time for politics or pandering to corporations and wealthy special interests. Ultimately, the American worker, and workers throughout North America need a level playing field. Congress will supply the votes to support such an achievement if the deal puts American workers’ interests first. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur represents Ohio’s Ninth District. Kaptur is the Dean of the Ohio Delegation and senior-most woman in the U.S. Congress. http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/364261-if-we-put-workers-first-all-three-nafta-nations-will-win-in-a ###
12.11.2017	Cleveland – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined with officials at Neighborhood Family Practice, a community health center in Cleveland, Ohio. Kaptur encouraged Northeast Ohio citizens who do not already have health insurance to sign up for health care coverage during the final week of open enrollment. Open enrollment ends on Friday, December 15. “It is imperative that anyone who needs health care, can get it, but to do that they need to sign up for care by December 15,” said Kaptur. “I thank the good people here at the Neighborhood Family Practice for having Ohioans' backs. Millions of people have already signed up for insurance, so make sure you, your family, your friends and your neighbors sign up to get the care they need.” People in the Cleveland area can call the Neighborhood Family Practice at (216) 281-0872 or Ohioans can also call 1-800-318-2596 or visit http://healthcare.gov to enroll or to learn more. Kaptur highlighting the Neighborhood Family Practice helpline. Pictured with Beverly Roach of CareSource, Ohio State Rep. Martin Sweeney and Neighborhood Family Practice CEO Jean Polster. ###
12.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, along with Members of Congress from the Great Lakes region, offered formal comments to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) Brandon Road report. Today is the final day for public comment on the draft Tentatively Selected Plan (TSP) of the USACE, which details options for how to prevent the Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. “My colleagues and I have long sounded the alarm on the threat of Asian carp across the Great Lakes region,” said Kaptur. “Just a few short months ago, we urged the need for action when a live Asian carp was caught about nine miles from Lake Michigan just past the protective barriers. Current estimates show it will take as long as eight years to have a barrier installed at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam – a timeframe which is unacceptable. With the Asian carp on the doorstep of our region’s most vital natural resource, we have a small window of opportunity to stop this invasive species. Once the Asian carp are in the Great Lakes, it will be too late to stop the destruction they will cause.” The letter sent to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer’s’ Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study Brandon Road report can be viewed here. ###
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and 20 House Democrats today requested answers from Senior White House Advisor Stephen Miller about his knowledge of Russian meetings and contacts during the 2016 presidential campaign. Their inquiry came after a series of news reports revealed that Miller, then a senior aide on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was alerted to Russian offers of assistance to that campaign by his subordinate George Papadopoulos, who later pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about Russian meetings and contacts. “We write with questions about your role in attempts to coordinate action between the Trump campaign and Russian government officials or operatives during the 2016 presidential election. These questions arise from recent admissions of Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to lying to the FBI about his meetings and contacts with Russian government officials,” said the Members in the letter. “…We also share grave concerns about any official in the White House with a position of influence over national security who knew about, or even participated in, covert arrangements designed to help a foreign adversary of the United States subvert our democratic elections processes,” the Members continued. Kaptur and the Representatives went on to note that Miller remains a senior figure in the Trump White House with a security clearance and access to sensitive classified information. They asked Miller to outline any knowledge he had of Russian offers of assistance to the Trump campaign, and steps that he took after learning of such offers, including notification of his superiors. They also asked whether Miller properly disclosed all meetings and contacts with Russian officials on his Standard Form 86 (SF-86). The letter was led by Rep. Donald Beyer (VA) and was signed by Democratic Representatives Jerrold Nadler (NY), Ted Lieu (CA), Jamie Raskin (MD), Peter Welch (VT), Zoe Lofgren (CA), Keith Ellison (MN), Pramila Jayapal (WA), Debbie Wasserman-Shultz (FL), Nydia Velazquez (NY), Dina Titus (NV), Lloyd Doggett (TX), Yvette Clarke (NY), Steve Cohen (TN), Tim Walz (MN), Grace Napolitano (CA), Ruben Gallego (AZ), Betty McCollum (MN), Bonnie Watson-Coleman (NJ), and Donald Payne Jr. (NJ). Please see the full text of the letter below. Stephen Miller Senior Advisor to the President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC, 20500 Dear Mr. Miller: We write with questions about your role in attempts to coordinate action between the Trump campaign and Russian government officials or operatives during the 2016 presidential election. These questions arise from recent admissions of Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to lying to the FBI about his meetings and contacts with Russian government officials. Mr. Papadopoulos attested in court filings that he had written to a “senior policy adviser” on the Trump campaign that then-candidate Donald Trump had been extended an “open invitation” from Vladimir Putin to visit Russia. The New York Times recently identified you as that senior policy adviser. Mr. Papadopoulos also attested in court documents that he met with a Maltese professor, Joseph Mifsud, who told him that the Russians had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton, which he specified to mean “thousands of e-mails.” This exchange occurred weeks after the initial hack of Clinton campaign e-mails, which were later published by Wikileaks, e-mails which the CIA assessed were provided to Wikileaks by the Russian government. Unlike Mr. Papadopoulos and many of the other Trump campaign officials whose names have been linked to this investigation, you now serve in the White House as a member of the President’s senior staff, with a security clearance and ongoing access to vital US intelligence. We therefore seek your prompt answers to the following questions: Were you aware that George Papadopoulos had received credible offers of assistance, on behalf of the Trump campaign, from the Russian government? When did you learn of them, and what actions did you take to notify your superiors in the Trump campaign? Did you encourage Papadopoulous’ attempts to coordinate information sharing between the Kremlin and the Trump campaign, with regard to Clinton campaign emails or any other matter? Did you properly disclose any offer of assistance, meeting, or other relationship with any Russian officials into which you entered—either prior to or during the 2016 presidential campaign—on your Standard Form 86 when you applied for a security clearance during the transition period? We respect the investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller and for the multiple investigations currently underway in House and Senate committees. We also share grave concerns about any official in the White House with a position of influence over national security who knew about, or even participated in, covert arrangements designed to help a foreign adversary of the United States subvert our democratic elections processes. Repeated failures by your White House colleague, Jared Kushner, and former employer, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, to properly disclose their meetings and contacts with Russian officials have only increased the need for vigorous oversight into ethics and security disclosures by other senior officials in this Administration. We thank you for your timely attention to this critical matter. Sincerely, ###
11.29.2017	Washington D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the longest-serving woman in Congress, released the following statement regarding the passage of a House resolution mandating sexual harassment and anti-discrimination training: "This resolution is a start to ensuring our staff, Members of Congress and interns all take appropriate anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training. Congress should set an example for America and this simple step helps us live up to the standards that the American people expect of us." ###
11.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) led a bipartisan group of 11 lawmakers urging the Office of Management and Budget to provide robust funding in 2019 to programs that address mental health, suicide prevention and substance use disorders. “We are committed to building better futures for individuals and families affected by mental illness and serious mental illness. Unfortunately, stories of families who have suffered attempting to find care for a loved one are all too common. The opioid crisis has exacerbated and exhausted the attempt to find solutions on mental health and substance use disorders,” said the Members in their letter. “We strongly support investments in research, prevention, and treatment programs that will reach populations in need and increase coordination across the federal government. Promoting evidence-based programs at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) will help those with mental illness rather than hinder them,” the Members continued. “We ask that you prioritize robust funding for programs that focus on mental illness, substance use disorder, and suicide prevention. We look forward to your response and partnering with you on this critical issue,” the Members concluded. Reps. Palazzo (R-MS), Sinema (D-AZ), Blumenauer (D-OR), Vargas (D-CA), McCollum (D-MN), Peter King (R-NY), David Young (R-IA), Knight (R-CA), and Paulsen (R-MN) also signed the letter. Read the full letter here: OMB Letter Mental Health Final.pdf ###
11.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force and Congressman David Joyce (OH-14) led a bipartisan group of 53 lawmakers in a letter to the Office of Management and Budget Director, Mick Mulvaney urging robust funding in the President’s fiscal year 2019 budget for programs that address harmful algal blooms. “We write to respectfully request that you allocate robust funding in the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request for programs that address a widespread and ever-increasing problem affecting every state and territory in the nation: toxic algae blooms, also called harmful algal blooms (HABs),” the Members wrote to Director Mulvaney. “Toxic blooms harm human health and cause several billion dollars in economic losses each year. While we have made significant advances in our understanding of where, when and why blooms occur, we must improve our ability to mitigate their impacts on our communities. We strongly support investment in science, research, and management to increase our capacity to forecast, detect, and prevent HABs, as well as to lessen their impacts on human health and economies across the country,” the Members continued. “To make the necessary progress toward understanding and addressing the significant and expanding threats that toxic algae pose to human health and our national economy, we ask that you prioritize a strong and coordinated federal response in this year’s budget request with robust funding allocated for HAB-related work,” the Members concluded. Read the full letter here: 11.20.17 FY19 Algal bloom research letter to OMB.PDF ###
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Andy Harris (R-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), today said the following on the targeting of journalists in Russia including the continued imprisonment of Ukrainian journalist, Roman Sushchenko by Russian authorities: “We remain troubled by the targeting and detention of journalists by Russian authorities for no crime other than seeking the truth,” the Co-Chairs said. “Freedom of the press is a fundamental principle of democracy, transparency, and the rule of law. The wrongful treatment of journalists like Roman Sushchenko is part of a larger trend of politically-motivated persecution and violation of fundamental human rights by Russian authorities. We join the international community in calling for their swift release.” Background: According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, nine journalists have been killed with complete impunity in the past decade in Russia. On September 30, 2016, Roman Suschenko was arrested on a private trip to Moscow by the Russia security service known as the FSB on charges of espionage. He is being detained in Moscow’s Lefortovo Prison and his arrest has prolonged. He is a permanent correspondent of UKRINFORM in Paris, France and has worked for the agency for 15 years. ###
11.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman David Joyce (OH-14) issued the following statements commending the Senate Appropriations Committee for including Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) funding in the 2018 Interior Appropriations bill. “This year got off to a rocky start as the Trump Administration zeroed out funding for the Great Lakes and efforts to restore them. The Administration’s proposed budget was short-sighted and our bipartisan coalition has come through to protect GLRI funding for the Lakes. I applaud the Senate for supporting our efforts in the House to ensure funding for GLRI. We must keep the pressure up to ensure Congress continues this vital program that keeps our Great Lakes productive and healthy,” said Kaptur, Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. “I am pleased to hear the Senate has agreed to designate the fully requested amount of $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This funding goes into saving, preserving, and restoring some of the primary water sources for many communities in Northeast Ohio and surrounding areas. I am happy to advocate for keeping the Great Lakes fresh and safe for all its many benefits and I am glad the Senate agrees these benefits deserve to be protected,” said Joyce. ###
11.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman David Joyce (OH-14) introduced bipartisan legislation with Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) to better prepare for, mitigate, and respond to harmful algal blooms, especially in the Great Lakes region. In a harmful algal bloom event, algae grow rapidly and release dangerous toxins that end up in shellfish, fish, marine mammals, and birds. This threatens fisheries, drinking water, human health, local economies, and aquatic ecosystems. “A key component of addressing our shared challenge of harmful algal blooms is to improve our understanding of when and where algal blooms will occur. After the massive algal bloom we had this summer with over 1,000 square miles of Lake Erie affected, the research our bill advances is more critical than ever. 11 million people rely on Lake Erie for drinking water and it is incumbent upon us to protect this precious natural resource. Let's pass this bill and keep up the work," said Kaptur, Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. “It’s time for us to better understand the effects of harmful algal blooms so we can do what is needed to address them,” said Joyce. “This is about our lakes, rivers, and other major bodies of water here in Ohio and across the nation - where we swim, fish, and most importantly draw our drinking water. We are fortunate to have the Great Lakes as such vital resources to our communities. By studying the effects of possible harmful algae, we will know how to preserve these resources and keep our waters safe, fresh, and clean.” “Coastal communities rely on a healthy ocean—and so do shellfish, fish, marine mammals, birds, and ecosystems around the world,” said Bonamici, co-chair of the bipartisan Oceans and Estuary Caucuses. “Harmful algal bloom and hypoxia events threaten the health of our oceans, lakes, and rivers. Our bipartisan legislation will help communities better protect against and respond quickly to harmful algal bloom and hypoxia events.” The Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017 helps combat harmful algal bloom events, especially in coastal and Great Lakes communities. The bill improves upon existing law by: Increasing inter-agency, regional, state, and local collaboration to address harmful algal bloom and hypoxia events; Establishing a process for declaration of an “Event of National Significance”, which triggers disaster-like funding to be available for affected communities; and Allowing private donations to help fund recovery in an event of national significance. You can read a section-by-section summary of the legislation here: 171116HABsummary.pdf ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today issued the following statement after voting no on H.R. 1, the Republicans’ tax plan: “The People’s House let the American people down today with the hasty passage of a partisan tax bill, rammed through Congress without a single hearing. “For all their talk of shedding light on their actions and an open transparent process, Republicans proved their primary interest is in serving their masters on Wall Street and corporate boardrooms. “This bill, if it becomes law, will impact millions of middle-class Americans just so billionaires and corporations can get a tax cut that they don’t need. The bill will certainly change, but this is the moment in time when the Republican Majority chose big tax breaks for the wealthy and table scraps for the rest.” Kaptur took the House floor this week to urge her colleagues to vote no. Watch the footage here. HD download of the video can be made available by request. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today joined her Congressional colleagues in introducing legislation to protect retirees invested in multiemployer pension funds. Democratic Congressional leadership released the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, also known as the “Butch Lewis Act” in honor of an Ohio Teamster. The bill would establish stability in troubled plans through the issuance of low-interest, 30-year loans by a newly created Pension Rehabilitation Administration. In Ohio, there are nearly 50,000 retirees in the Central States Pension Fund and thousands more in the nearly 100 multiemployer pension plans whose retirement income is in jeopardy absent congressional action. “The retirement plan you work for and pay for shouldn't be bait for Wall Street’s insatiable gambling enterprise that leaves retirees in the lurch. How many times will working Americans be asked to pay for the casino-like investment schemes that put safe and secure retirement at risk," asked Kaptur. “Our retirees have been sounding the alarm on this for three years and this bill is an earnest attempt to make sure we keep the promises made to them in their pensions." Watch the live stream of the press conference here. “Through no fault of their own, thousands of retirees are facing drastic cuts to their pensions while others are already living the experience of cuts, some upwards of seventy percent. Whether it is protecting or expanding Social Security, defending tax-exempt status of 401ks or keeping pension promises, Americans need to know we’re fighting for their financial stability and security,” Kaptur continued. “I thank all of our House cosponsors and Senator Sanders for their work on the Keep Our Pension Promises Act in the House and Senate, the precursor to the bill we introduce today. After the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act was slipped into the end of the year spending bill in 2014, these champions for working people worked tirelessly to try and right the wrong dealt to our retirees. Today, with the introduction of the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, we advance the fight for pension fairness," concluded Kaptur. In May, Kaptur and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) re-introduced legislation, originally introduced in 2015, to protect the pensions of up to 10 million workers and retirees. The Keep Our Pension Promises Act (KOPPA) would reverse a provision passed in 2014 that could result in deep pension cuts for millions of retirees and workers in multi-employer pension plans. For more on Kaptur’s work click here: Kaptur Multiemployer Legislative Work.pdf BACKGROUND: In December 2014, Congress approved and the president signed a spending bill that included provisions that allow for dramatic cuts to financially troubled multiemployer pensions. Under this provision, the pension benefits of retirees could be cut by 70 percent or more. Before the law was changed, it was illegal for an employer to cut the pension benefits retirees had earned. Kaptur’s bill, KOPPA establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multiemployer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. For a one-pager on KOPPA bill click here. ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today released two letters from the University of Toledo and The Ohio State University, both citing many concerns with the Republican tax bill in its current form. You can view the University of Toledo letter here and The Ohio State University letter here. “With major universities in Ohio joining the chorus of many other groups worried about teachers, students, seniors and middle-class families, it is imperative that the Republican-controlled Congress reverse course on this wrongheaded tax proposal,” said Kaptur. “Let’s instead focus on real reform that doesn’t sell out our future.” How does the GOP tax plan impact Ohio? A recent state-by-state assessment, by the non-partisan Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy that shows under the proposed Republican tax plan, 440,000 Ohio households that earn less than $83,750 will see a tax hike averaging $710. The ITEP analysis shows that nationally, the GOP proposal will raise taxes on more than 22 million households earning $150,500 or less. House Republicans are proposing lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent and eliminating parts of the state and local income tax deduction, which about one out of every four Ohioans utilize, with an average deduction of $10,444 (more about this can be seen here). The GOP bill imposes a new cap on the mortgage interest deduction that hurts future homebuyers and drives down home values, eliminates the student loan interest deduction and critical job training credits, and eliminate the vital medical expense deduction relied on by 9 million families with sick children and by seniors with long-term care needs. Kaptur is one of the few Members of Congress who voted no on the 1986 tax agreement, citing a deal that contained tax cuts for the rich without any requirements that major corporations do not ship jobs overseas. She called the move “a bad deal then and a bad deal now.” Kaptur is the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee which controls spending. ### OSU Ohio Delegation Tax Letter-Kaptur.pdf UT Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.Kaptur.pdf ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Amidst ongoing NAFTA renegotiations with Canada and Mexico, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) sent a letter, along with pages of testimony from Ohioans, to U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer urging that real labor standards and enforcement be included in any new continental trade agreement. “Millions of Americans have endured relentless job outsourcing and significant downward wage and benefit pressures under NAFTA's rigid provisions. Significant as well, our nation has never achieved a trade balance with our NAFTA competitors in over a quarter century. Indeed, since 1993, America’s cumulative deficit with NAFTA partners now totals nearly $2 trillion. This negative result represents an astounding abdication of economic growth,” Kaptur wrote in the letter. The letter included testimony from Kaptur’s August town hall on NAFTA, trade, and jobs in Brook Park, Ohio. This included analysis and perspectives from the National Farmers Union, Teamsters Local 416 in Cleveland, Blue Green Alliance, Sierra Club, Policy Matters Ohio, United Steelworkers, and the United Auto Workers. “To drive through our district and speak to our constituents provides a daily reminder of the plight these workers face: shuttered factories, hollowed out neighborhoods, chronic economic stress due to diminished employment opportunities in quality jobs. Time and again during the field hearing, participants called for increased worker protections, improved environmental provisions, and elimination of special courts that further enhance already bloated transnational interests. You now have [a great] opportunity to rectify these troubles by focusing on the American worker as you negotiate with Canada and Mexico. To amplify the concerns of the hearing’s participants, I am including their prepared testimony so you can read their stories and understand their experiences,” Kaptur continued. Kaptur again called for the inclusion of a tri-party Independent Labor Secretariat, to ensure the labor standards are enforced. An idea that is supported and outlined by the AFL-CIO here. “Ultimately, the American worker demands fair trade and a level playing field with workers in Canada and Mexico. I have little doubt that you will have the votes from Congress to support your achievement if you negotiate a deal that puts American workers’ interests first,” Kaptur concluded. Read the full letter, including testimony here: 11.3.17 Lighthizer Letter Ohio Worker NAFTA Field Hearing Lessons.pdf Kaptur field hearing at Brook Park, OH
11.08.2017	Watch Kaptur's floor speech, on H. Res 614, Celebrating the 99th anniversary of Polish independence below: Read the resolution text below or download here: Celebrating the 99th anniversary of Polish independenceHRES.pdf H. RES. 614 Celebrating the 99th anniversary of Polish independence. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES November 9, 2017 Ms. Kaptur (for herself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Rokita, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Sires, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Bishop of Georgia) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs RESOLUTION Celebrating the 99th anniversary of Polish independence. Whereas the strong ties between Poland and the United States are cemented with the shared devotion to the values of human rights, civil liberties, and democracy, as well as the resolve to the North Atlantic military alliance’s role in maintaining Eastern Europe’s and global security; Whereas Poles have been present on American soil since before the birth of the United States, where Polish generals Taddeus Kosciuszko and Casimir Pulaski bravely fought for independence and freedom for both the United States and Poland; Whereas the shared values of the United States and Poland go back to the 1700s; Whereas, on May 3, 1791, Poland adopted the first constitution in Europe based on the ideas of liberty and constitutional monarchy, which paved the way for future democratic reforms and equal rights for all; Whereas, in October 1795, Poland fell victim of the third partition between the Russian Empire, the Kingdom of Prussia, and the Habsburg Monarchy, and as a result lost its sovereignty for the next 123 years; Whereas Poles’ steadfast fight to regain independence culminated in the November Uprising of 1830 and the January Uprising of 1863, in which hundreds of Poles sacrificed their lives for the reconstitution of Poland’s sovereignty; Whereas Poland’s national identity was preserved through fostered education and economic empowerment of the masses, coined in the “organic work” ideology, that recognized modernization of the Polish society as a prerequisite for preservation of Polish nationhood; Whereas President Woodrow Wilson’s and Igancy Paderewski’s focused advocacy for the cause of Poland’s independence were critical for the recognition of Polish sovereignty after the end of the First World War; and Whereas, on November 11, 1918, the Regency Council of Poland named Jozef Pilsudski the Commander in Chief of Poland and entrusted him to build a government for the newly reconstituted Poland, marking the creation of the Second Republic of Poland: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) celebrates the 99th anniversary of Polish independence and values the opportunity to remember the historic events and courageous individuals that brought about reconstitution of Poland’s sovereignty; (2) honors the resolve and sacrifice of the people of Poland, who did not lose their determination to advance the cause of Polish independence during 123 years of partitions; and (3) reaffirms the close bonds between Poland and the United States based on the love of freedom, thirst for liberty, and shared commitment to democracy, as well as a strong military cooperation to create a more secure and democratic world. ember the historic events and courageous individuals that brought about reconstitution of Poland’s sovereignty; (2) honors the resolve and sacrifice of the people of Poland, who did not lose their determination to advance the cause of Polish independence during123 years of partitions; and (3) reaffirms the close bonds between Poland and the United States based on the love of freedom, thirst for liberty, and shared commitment to democracy, as well as a strong military cooperation to create a more secure and democratic world.
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), today introduced a resolution commemorating the 85th Anniversary of the Holodomor Famine-Genocide. The resolution honors the estimated seven to 10 million Ukrainian people who perished at the will of the totalitarian Stalinist government of the former Soviet Union, which perpetrated a premeditated famine in the winter of 1932-1933 in Ukraine in a concerted effort to break the nation's resistance to communist occupation. “We must solemnly remember the millions of Ukrainians who lost their lives in the Holodomor Famine-Genocide and shine a spotlight on the truth. This monument represents our hopes, our shared values, and the humanity that binds us,” the Members said. The full text of the resolution can be found in the link below. The Holodomor Famine-Genocide Memorial opened in Washington, D.C. in 2015, with the support of the bipartisan Ukraine Caucus. Ukraine Famine Resolution 85 years.pdf ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Dennis Ross (R-FL), and Chris Smith (R-NJ) have announced the formation of the Victims of Communism Caucus for the 115thCongress (2017-2019). The Victims of Communism Caucus is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to raising awareness of how communism victimized and enslaved many millions of people in the past and how its tyranny in the five existing Communist countries (China, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam) and its legacy in the post-Soviet sphere shapes international relations today. During the upcoming session, the Victims of Communism Caucus will focus on several issues, including Russian expansionism in Ukraine; the deteriorating political and economic situation in Venezuela, and what the U.S. can do to ameliorate it; the continuing human rights abuses of the Castro regime in Cuba; and the increasing threat that North Korea poses to a free world with its dangerous rhetoric and pursuit of ever more advanced missile and nuclear technology even as they enslave their own people. The Caucus will honor the memory of the 100 million victims of communism and raise awareness about the dissidents who continue to protest against current communist regimes. “I look forward to working with my colleagues as a Co-Chair of the Victims of Communism Caucus,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “As many of my constituents have personally experienced, the successful struggle for freedom from under the yoke of authoritarianism, inherent to communism, deserves special attention in the annals of history. This caucus will shine a light on the victims’ struggle, and work to keep the flame of human rights around the world alive.” “We should not be lulled into thinking that communism is no longer a threat to freedom in the world, given that many people still toil under its hateful, totalitarian rule," said Congressman Dennis A. Ross. "Our caucus will ensure that we do not forget those victims who were forced to choose between their faith and the cruelty of a dictatorship. We must hold fast to the virtues of freedom." “Our bipartisan caucus is determined to ensure that Congress and the American people remain aware of and continue to fight against the deadly and ongoing evil of Marxist and Leninist ideology – still promoted by communist dictators,” said Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), a human rights champion during his 19 terms in Congress and founding member of the new Victims of Communism Caucus on Capitol Hill. “One out of five people in the world still live under communism, subject to horrific abuses and denied their most basic human rights. China, Vietnam, North Korea, Cuba, and Laos remain communist dictatorships,” Smith said. “There has also never been full accountability for the crimes committed by past communist regimes, including planned famines, deportations, and ethnic cleansing. Thus, the victims of those regimes do not have closure.” “I will never forget my experiences in Berlin at the fall of the Wall in 1989,” said Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL). “As we approach the 28th anniversary of that day, we now have about a third of the U.S. population that has lived in a world without the Soviet Union. In my district, there are many people who suffered under communism, watched relatives and friends perish, and were forced to leave their homes and their countries. It is our duty to tell these stories, the truth about communism, and preserve this history for all generations. I am proud to join my fellow co-chairs in establishing the Victims of Communism Caucus." ###
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today highlighted a state-by-state assessment, by the non-partisan Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy that shows under the proposed Republican tax plan, 440,000 Ohio households that earn less than $83,750 will see a tax hike averaging $710. “This Republican Congress is trying to sneak through a tax hike on the middle class, plain and simple,” said Kaptur. “President Trump ran on creating jobs, and getting more money into people’s paychecks, yet, here we are, handcuffed to the runaway train which is the House Republicans’ insistence on cutting taxes for millionaires and corporations.” “This is not what reform looks like. We need to be focused on infrastructure, education, investing in job-creating, clean energy research. Instead, this bill will incentivize big companies to outsource more U.S. jobs. I have seen this show before and I know how it ends,” Kaptur continued. Chart via Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy The ITEP analysis shows that nationally, the GOP proposal will raise taxes on more than 22 million households earning $150,500 or less. House Republicans are proposing lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent and eliminating parts of the state and local income tax deduction, which about one out of every four Ohioans utilize, with an average deduction of $10,444 (more about this can be seen here). The GOP bill imposes a new cap on the mortgage interest deduction that hurts future homebuyers and drives down home values, eliminates the student loan interest deduction and critical job training credits, and eliminate the vital medical expense deduction relied on by families with sick children and by seniors with long-term care needs. Kaptur is one of the few Members of Congress who voted no on the 1986 tax agreement, citing a deal that contained tax cuts for the rich without any requirements that major corporations do not ship jobs overseas. She called the move “a bad deal then and a bad deal now.” Kaptur is the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee which controls spending. ITEP 50 states tax breakdown.pdf ###
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after the release of the Republican tax plan which lowers the rate on corporations by about 40 percent and throws into question many deductions that every day Americans rely on to pay for it. According to the Washington Post, the bill would add $1.5 trillion to the debt over 10 years. “This is like the health care debate all over again, lobbyists know more about this plan than many Members of Congress,” said Kaptur. “This process has nothing to do with preventing job outsourcing or creating jobs or putting money in people’s pockets. It has everything to do with promises made by Republican lawmakers to wealthy, corporate donors.” “In 1986, during the last large alteration to the tax code, which was by no means perfect, there were dozens of hearings before a bill was marked up, and now, not a single one. Republicans are trying to hurry up and stuff this bird full of tax breaks for the donor class and leave hard-working Ohioans with the scraps for Thanksgiving,” Kaptur continued. Kaptur took to the House floor this week to discuss principles regarding what a good tax reform plan looks like, and opposed Republican backroom deals, being negotiated in secret. Watch the video here. House Republicans are proposing lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent and eliminating parts of the state and local income tax deduction, which about one out of every four Ohioans utilize, with an average deduction of $10,444 (more about this can be seen here). Kaptur spoke to MSNBC’s Chris Matthews earlier in October regarding the Republican tax proposal. Watch that segment here. Also, Kaptur is one of the few Members of Congress who voted no on the 1986 tax agreement, citing a deal that contained tax cuts for the rich without any requirements that major corporations do not ship jobs overseas. She called the move “a bad deal then and a bad deal now.” ###
11.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today announced her strong support for the House and Senate Democrats “A Better Deal” Agenda for workers. Today, U.S. House and Senate Democrats stood with labor leaders and unveiled one of the critical tenets of their economic agenda, “A Better Deal.” Specifically, Democrats proposed a plan to safeguard workers’ freedom to negotiate with employers, penalize companies that violate workers’ rights, protect unions and workers’ abilities to strike, and more. “On the campaign trail, then-candidate Donald Trump promised workers across Ohio and our Industrial Heartland that he would fight for them, well Mr. President, here is your chance,” said Kaptur. “This agenda takes a strong step to help workers get a leg up in an economy that is too often rigged in favor of major corporations and greedy Wall Street investors.” “My mother was a union organizer and if it weren’t for the stability and benefits her union provided, I am not sure I would be here today. In Ohio, campaigns have pushed so-called ‘Right-to-work’ laws, so I know first-hand the special interest forces that try to undermine our workers,” Kaptur continued. “Protecting workers is priority number one.” Senate and House Democrats today stood alongside Richard Trumka, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), Lee Saunders, President of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSME), Lily Eskelsen Garcia, President of the National Education Association (NEA), and Randi Weingarten, President of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) to propose the plan. The plan would give American workers a better deal on collective bargaining and negotiating with their employers. Specifically, the Better Deal for American workers proposal would: Strengthen penalties on predatory corporations that violate workers’ rights, and combat misclassification of workers as supervisors and independent contractors. Strengthen workers’ right to strike for basic workplace improvements, including higher wages and better working conditions. Create a mandatory mediation and arbitration process to ensure corporations and newly formed unions reach a first contract. Ban state laws that undermine worker freedoms to join together and negotiate. Provide millions of public employees with the freedom to join a union and collectively bargain with their employers. Streamline the National Labor Relation Board’s (NLRB) procedures to secure worker freedoms and effectively prevent violations. Protect the integrity of union elections against coercive captive audience meetings. Use federal purchasing power and policy to help expand opportunities to negotiate. Read these full Better Deal for American workers plan here. ###
10.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement regarding news that Trump Campaign Manager Paul Manafort was indicted: “It is important that we let justice run its course, and let Mr. Mueller, the special prosecutor in this matter, do his job. “As Co-Chair of the House Ukraine Caucus, my experience has been that people in Ukraine do not know Mr. Manafort nor are they familiar with his work, which raises many questions. “We should not jump to any conclusions, but with matters of potential conspiracy against the United States, we must follow the facts where they lead us. “Members of Congress, meanwhile, have a constitutional obligation to ensure our oversight and investigative reach are not artificially limited and that, in the end, justice is done.”
10.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, took the floor of the House this week to oppose the current tax plan being offered by the Republican Congressional Majority. Key excerpts from the floor speech: “We cannot allow the Republican Majority to trade away creating jobs here in America, for doling out massive tax breaks to wealthy corporations that have no intention of investing here in the United States of America. “The Republican plan will actually fuel more job outsourcing, and move benefits to shareholders, and overpaid CEOs. Not the workers of our country. 80 percent of the tax giveaways go to the top one percent! “Our country can’t afford to balloon the deficit by $1.5 trillion so that Wall Street can appease their shareholders a little more and stack the decks against American workers. “Tax reform should not result in the outsourcing of our jobs it should result investing right here in the United States of America. And that begins with real tax reform, not scam tax reform.” Watch the entire speech here. House Republicans are proposing eliminating the state and local income tax deduction, which about one out of every four Ohioans utilize, with an average deduction of $10,444 (more about this can be seen here). According to the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) if the state and local tax deduction were eliminated, “it would represent a significant tax increase on homeowners and make it much more difficult for many Americans to own their homes. This tax increase would drive significant changes in the housing market. Home prices — which have been set for decades assuming the SALT deductions — would inevitably fall, causing a significant loss in wealth for many Americans and creating instability in the market.” Additionally, the Republican majority is also considering reducing the contribution limit that citizens can contribute to their 401k plans, a move opposed by Kaptur. Kaptur spoke to MSNBC’s Chris Matthews earlier in October regarding the Republican tax proposal. Watch that segment here. Also, Kaptur is one of the few Members of Congress who voted no on the 1986 tax agreement, citing a deal that contained tax cuts for the rich without any requirements that major corporations do not ship jobs overseas. She called the move “a bad deal then and a bad deal now.” ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after news that President Donald Trump, three months after an initial announcement to declare a national emergency, would formally issue an order declaring the opioid crisis a public health emergency. “I hope the Trump Administration follows through without delay to use this order to provide relief to the millions of families suffering from this crisis,” said Kaptur. “We cannot afford to wait months between an announcement and action. Nearly every community in Ohio has in some way been affected by this scourge. People are dying, Mr. President and as I said in August when you initially announced this move, Ohio is the epicenter of this crisis. I know many families will welcome the lifeline of funding and resources that real action will bring." “Additionally, we must not go backward on the progress we have made. Medicaid expansion and the substance use coverage guarantee, made possible by the Affordable Care Act, have gone a long way to providing invaluable care to those in the grips of addiction,” Kaptur continued. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, Ohio has the most prescription opioid overdose deaths per capita in the country. In an August, letter to President Trump, Kaptur and her colleagues urged further action on the recommendations from The Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. ###
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today introduced a House Resolution to commemorate, International Day of Rural Women, in recognition of women farmers around the world. “Women serve as the bedrock of society. They feed the world’s families. They feed our neighbors, and our countrymen,” said Kaptur. “Women are important role models for younger generations. Unfortunately, despite this, they still face many societal and economic limitations both here and abroad.” “This Resolution shines a light on women farmers and empowers them to succeed as entrepreneurs. It calls on the people of the U.S. and the world to recognize their critical contribution and to recommit to reducing these barriers and limitations,” Kaptur continued. Watch Kaptur’s floor speech here: The Resolution has eight cosponsors, which include: Reps. McGovern (MA), Welch (VT), DeLauro (CT), Evans (PA), Khanna (CA), Holmes Norton (DC), and Pingree (ME). According to the U.N., rural women make up over one quarter of the total world population and represent approximately 43 percent of the agricultural labor force. They play a critical role in agricultural productivity, in terms of food security and economic stability. Women serve as the bedrock of society, feed their families, neighbors, and countrymen, and are important role models for younger generations. Despite their critical role, they face considerable societal limitations and constraints in their access to resources. Food security and economic stability around the world are central to the interests of the United States. This Resolution shines a light on women farmers and empowers them to succeed as entrepreneurs. It calls on the people of the United States and interested groups to recognize women farmers for their critical role and recommit to reducing limitations and breaking down barriers to their success to ensure more stable and prosperous societies. Resolution Text: Recognizing the International Day of Rural Women on October 15, 2017, in celebration of women farmers around the world. Whereas rural women make up over one quarter of the total world population, represent approximately 43 percent of the agricultural labor force, and play a critical role in agricultural productivity, both in terms of food security and economic security; Whereas women serve as the bedrock of society, feeding their families, neighbors, and countrymen, and are important role models for younger generations; Whereas women-led agricultural efforts remain significant untapped potential for countries around the world, such as in Ukraine, which is the breadbasket of Europe and where Ukrainian women play an outsized role in agricultural production, producing 80 percent of the country’s vegetables and fruit crops and 60 percent of the hogs consumed domestically; Whereas women’s involvement in rural projects leads to greater productivity, such as in Peru where women’s participation in a rural road project led to more robust transportation networks and higher incomes; Whereas women farmers continue to face considerable societal limitations and constraints in their access to resources, despite their important role in ensuring food security for their communities; Whereas technology and informative extension services in rural areas allow for more modern and effective farming practices, yet, for example in Zambia, many of the poorest farmers who are women were underserved in development outreach; Whereas women farmers in China work over 50 percent of the country’s overall labor hours in agriculture, yet are excluded from signing contracts in farming schemes; Whereas giving rural women the power and ability to cultivate nutritious and ample food positively impacts the physical and cognitive development of the next generation, leading to healthier and more productive citizenry; Whereas there is great opportunity for economic and societal development in any nation that shines a light on women farmers and empowers them to succeed as entrepreneurs; and Whereas food security and economic stability around the world require the success of women farmers and are central to the interests of the United States: Now, therefore, Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) recognizes the International Day of Rural Women; and (2) calls on the people of the United States and interested groups to— (A) celebrate rural women as integral members of societies and economies around the world; (B) recognize women farmers for their role in feeding their families and fellow countrymen and for their productivity which helps maintain economic stability and stronger democracies; (C) ensure rural women have access to the tools and productive resources they need to engage in entrepreneurship; and (D) recommit to reducing limitations, breaking down barriers to success, and prioritizing initiatives that wholly support rural women farmers at the local level to ensure more stable and prosperous societies. ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s health care executive order and news that he will cease Cost Sharing Reduction (CSR) payments which help reduce insurance premiums for Americans. “The President’s Executive Order and threats to ends cost reduction payments amount to sabotage for the health care of many Americans. People will see higher premiums and loss of coverage as a result of these actions, all to satisfy a careless Republican campaign promise,” said Kaptur. “The President has already slashed outreach and assistance programs that helped many Ohioans enroll in health care, and this is another wrongheaded and destructive move. We need solutions that stabilize our health insurance system so Americans can get the care they need without having to worry about another politically motivated action from this President or Republican leaders in Congress,” Kaptur continued. Additionally, this week Kaptur led a letter signed by Congressman Tim Ryan (OH -13), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) to the Trump Administration demanding answers on moves to undermine outreach and assistance programs that help Ohioans gets health care. ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today issued the following statement regarding the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (DNR) seeking $32,782 in restitution for three separate cases of illegal manure release. According to Ohio DNR, this resulted in more than 66,000 dead fish in the Maumee River. “Fresh drinking water should never be compromised. We welcome the State of Ohio’s attention as a necessary action to jumpstart the discipline needed to ensure our water is clean,” said Kaptur. “We must work together to provide farmers with the knowledge and tools to manage their manure properly.” ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman Steve Knight (CA-25) announced the creation of the bipartisan NASA Caucus to strengthen awareness of NASA’s many connections to our national security and economic interests, provide a bipartisan forum to discuss the scientific and technological challenges to American flight and space exploration endeavors, and serve as a focal point for public and private sector air and space expertise that cover the full range of NASA’s initiatives. “NASA’s storied history has led America to discovery and innovation unparalleled in history. Its future possibilities are endless,” said co-founder of the NASA Caucus, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “As the hardworking researchers and scientists at Glenn Research Center know, for pennies on the dollar, NASA programs have fueled jobs, created new industries and inspired entire generations of Americans. Today, we are excited to announce the launch of the bipartisan NASA Caucus to honor this scientific juggernaut’s contributions to American life and to assure its continued contributions to a future further enlightened by scientific advancement.” “There has been a lack of representation in the educational activities on Capitol Hill for many of NASA’s most important programs. Many of these programs that are critical to U.S. national interests, and there is an interest here to learn more and support them. But the current landscape does not yet support that level of interest,” said Congressman Knight, co-founder of the NASA Caucus. “I am proud to stand up this caucus so we can bring timely information to policymakers on these important issues related to exploration, research and development, and strategic investments vital to the future of U.S. air and space competitiveness. I look forward to working with the members of this caucus to ensure this institution has the tools it needs to build on the many contributions it has made to American achievement.” This week marked the anniversary of the launch of the first NASA spacecraft, Pioneer I, in 1958. NASA and its predecessor agency the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) have led many advances in aeronautics and aerospace technology that mark significant inflection points in American and world history. This caucus will bring attention to current initiatives that advance that legacy, programmatic and resource challenges, and conversations in preparation of future public endeavors. Knight and Kaptur would like to send a huge thank you to the 26 other founding members who have signed on the caucus: Brian Babin (TX), Mo Brooks (AL), André Carson (IN), Kathy Castor (FL), Jim Costa (CA), Barbara Comstock (VA), Charlie Crist (FL), Debbie Dingell (MI), Anna Eshoo (CA), Al Hastings (FL), Bill Johnson (OH), David Joyce (OH), Ro Khanna (CA), Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO), Zoe Lofgren (CA), Ralph Norman (SC), Pete Olson (TX), Steven Palazzo (MS), Ed Perlmutter (CO), Bill Posey (FL), Jamie Raskin (MD), Dana Rohrabacher (CA), Linda T. Sánchez (CA), Scott Taylor (VA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), Randy Weber (TX). An official launch event to celebrate the establishment of the caucus will take place in December. ###
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) was joined by Congressman Tim Ryan (OH -13), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) in writing a letter to Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma regarding the Trump Administration’s handling of the upcoming open enrollment period, asking for detailed answers regarding cuts in services and outreach programs that help citizens enroll in health care plans. “The Administration’s actions regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA) have thrown millions of families and individuals into uncertainty weeks before the open enrollment period begins, which the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has inexplicably condensed from 90 days to 45 days. We are concerned that actions taken by HHS will impact Americans and Ohioans alike,” said the Members. The Members detailed several concerning actions by the Administration which undermine the open enrollment process and requested more information on the following: The Administration cut the ACA Navigator program’s budget which resulted in the Ohio Association of Foodbanks exiting the navigator program due to a 71% funding reduction, leaving the state with no navigators, and laying off 54 area employees. HHS cut the ACA advertising budget by 90%, from $100 million to $10 million. CMS under the former Administration stated television advertisements proved to be the most cost-effective way to encourage enrollment, but the current Administration will not be running any TV ads this year. In September, HHS told its 10 regional directors not to participate in state-based education events before open enrollment. Many marketplace pre-enrollment events have already been planned for months, bringing together navigators, insurance brokers, state officials, and community health centers. HHS reported that HealthCare.gov, the federally operated marketplace, would be offline for all but one Sunday during the 45-day open enrollment period due to maintenance. Except for December 10, the site will be inaccessible between 12:00am and 12:00pm (EST) each Sunday and on Wednesday, November 1, the first day of open enrollment. The Members concluded their letter by saying, “While President Trump has repeatedly called for allowing the Affordable Care Act to ‘collapse’ it appears that the Administration is abdicating its legal responsibility to conduct outreach and assistance to help American families and individuals who simply wish to have access to health insurance coverage.” “Individuals will now be without the help they need to enroll in health care plans even though every American is required to have health insurance under current law, and face tax consequences if they fail to obtain coverage. This lack of support is due to arbitrary budget cuts, time restrictions, and ultimately a politicized process, which will not benefit the American people.” You can download a copy of the letter here: 101117 HHS Open Enrollment Ltr Signed OH Dems.pdf. ###
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) took to the floor of the U.S. House to share stories from individuals who have been organizing supply shipments to Puerto Rico. Kaptur also inserted a story from a constituent’s relative in the Congressional record. Key excerpts from the speech: “What a privilege it has been for me to know, and do my best to help, community leaders in Lorain, Ohio who have been engaged in the Puerto Rican relief effort following Hurricane Maria.” “Lorain Councilman Angel Arroyo, along with many of our constituents, have been organizing local shipments to Puerto Rico. Councilman Arroyo helped arrange seven truckloads of aid that were flown in on private chartered planes.” “Human stories from relatives across that region focused on the tragic lack of aid, especially within the vast interior parts of that island. Our District has the largest concentration of Puerto Ricans in Ohio and families are very worried.” “…the Trump Administration should get [an] ‘F’, for all the citizens of this country that are being left behind.” (Click here for HD download of video) Watch the speech here: https://youtu.be/-49J30XSpm4 Last week, Kaptur met with a group of community leaders in Lorain, Ohio, regarding the status on the ground in Puerto Rico and actions being taken by the community to help fellow citizens. Additionally, Kaptur shared Councilman Arroyo’s stories and videos on her website here. Lorain County has the largest Puerto Rican community in Ohio. Councilman Arroyo, on behalf of his constituents, their families and friends, and our fellow Americans went to Puerto Rico to deliver supplies and share stories of those who have been impacted by the devastation of Hurricane Maria. ###
10.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) announced a $550,000 supplemental U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) award to the Lorain County Board of Commissioners to improve water quality in the Black River Area of Concern on Lake Erie. The funds were made possible through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). “These funds will help Lorain continue existing efforts to clean up the Black River and create new economic opportunities along on an important coastal waterway,“ said Kaptur. “This investment also highlights the importance of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and why we fought so hard, in a bipartisan way, to ensure this critical program was fully funded.” Kaptur serves on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee which controls spending for the U.S. EPA and other agencies. More about the award and the GLRI from U.S. EPA: The Black River AOC is on the binational list of toxic hotspots that have been targeted for cleanup under the U.S.-Canadian Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. The funding is a supplemental award to an existing grant of $600,000, increasing the total amount to just over $1 million. The Lorain County Board of Commissioners will use this additional funding to restore two critical areas of degradation and impairment in the Willow Creek watershed, which flows to the Black River. Funding will also support work to restore an additional 800 feet of Fortune Ditch, a major tributary of Willow Creek. Additionally, 1.5 acres of riparian wetland habitat will be restored at the Margaret Peak Nature Preserve, a former family farm in Eaton Township donated to the township 12 years ago by its late namesake. The nature preserve is home to 170 species of birds, two ponds, five acres of wetlands and 10 acres of forest. To date, Lorain County, in partnership with Eaton Township, has used the original funding to restore approximately 800 feet of Willow Creek and plant hundreds of live stakes and wetland plants around and along Fortune Ditch. At the nature preserve, approximately 21 acres of active agricultural field will be revegetated with native grasses and wildflowers. Overall, funding is expected to establish 1,400 continuous feet of high-quality stream and riparian habitat within the preserve. Since 2010, GLRI funding totaling $23.5 million – including $16 million from EPA - has funded 20 projects to remediate and restore the Black River AOC. The GLRI was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes. EPA has funded more than 900 projects to address GLRI’s highest priorities: cleaning up highly-contaminated ‘Areas of Concern’; reducing nutrient runoff; combating invasive species and restoring habitat. For more information about the Black River Area of Concern, visit: https://www.epa.gov/black-river-aoc ###
10.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, issued the following statement after news that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a Washington based trade group representing American corporations, called proposals in NAFTA negotiations “dangerous.” “We are a long way from a good deal for workers in the current state of NAFTA negotiations, but let’s call it like it is, the Chamber was never interested in a North American trade deal that puts workers and people above corporate interests,” said Kaptur. “Many of America’s biggest corporations are out of touch with working people, and the same can be said for their lobbyists at the Chamber. I will work with anyone to create a new trade paradigm that uplifts workers across our continent, but the Chamber’s threats are unproductive and do nothing to reduce our ballooning trade deficits or create jobs.” Kaptur has been a leading voice for workers in Congress on trade. She has called for a tri-party Labor Secretariat to be part of a new deal and she recently authored an op-ed in The Guardian calling for President Trump to put workers first in NAFTA negotiations. ###
10.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today cosponsored the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation extends the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) for five years, which supports Community Health Centers across the country and increases funds to ensure responsiveness to demand for care. The current funding expired on September 30, 2017. “Just in Northern Ohio, Community Health Centers serve more than 55,000 patients. Congress must ensure that Ohioans continue to receive care,” said Kaptur. “This bill provides a responsible and steady stream of federal funding to make sure these health care centers keep their doors open for the people of Ohio.” 620,000 Ohioans now use Community Health Centers that rely on these funds. Additionally, Ohio’s community health centers employ 259 physicians, 253 nurse practitioners and physicians assistants, 101 dentists, 522 nurses and over 3,800 total staff positions in areas where qualified professionals are in short supply. The overall economic impact of the CHC system is estimated to be over $230 million in the state of Ohio. More on specifics on how community health centers help Ohio’s Ninth district here. The bill was introduced by Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), David Young (R-IA-03), Joe Courtney (D-CT-02), and Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ-01) and has more than 175 cosponsors. About Community Health Centers: CHCs provide primary care to more than 26 million Americans in every state and territory. These centers provide access to high-quality primary and preventive care while integrating behavioral health, dental, substance abuse and other critical services for their patients. Health Centers are a cost-effective provider of care, having been proven to save 24% in total Medicaid spending when compared to other providers. Total funding for the Health Centers program currently stands at $5.1 billion annually. Of this total, $3.6 billion comes from the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), a dedicated source of funding that was extended for two years in 2015. According to estimates from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, letting this funding lapse puts Americans at risk of losing care. Cuts would result in over 9 million patients losing access to care, cost 50,000 jobs in economically hard-hit communities across the nation, and force 2,800 health center locations to shut their doors. ###
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) spoke at a press conference with colleagues today to urge action and attention from the Trump Administration regarding the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico. Kaptur stood with House Members who represent substantial Puerto Rican constituencies and to update what they are hearing from the Puerto Rican community. In particular, the short-term prognosis for electrical power, water, food, hospitals, and schools is not good, and Representatives are hearing a growing cry for help in getting vulnerable loved ones off of the island. “Lorain has the most densely populated Puerto Rican community in the entire state of Ohio. Families in my District are concerned about their loved ones and I share their concern,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09). “As Puerto Rico begins to recover from devastation, it faces a dangerous crisis; there is no electricity, no water, and donated goods cannot reach the people as many roads are impassable. People are in limbo. Kids can't go to school, doctors can't reach the sick. Addressing this humanitarian crisis is priority number one, and we need to get our fellow Americans the help and relief they need.” Kaptur with Reps. Gutiérrez, DeLauro, Crowley, Espaillat, and McGovern at a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol today (more photos here) On September 27, Kaptur wrote a letter with 145 of her colleagues urging specific steps and further action from the Trump Administration to ensure that Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands receive the assistance and help needed to deal with the ongoing crisis after Hurricane Maria. In the letter, Kaptur and fellow lawmakers call for the appointment of a senior general to oversee all recovery efforts, the deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier and to increase personnel to assist local law enforcement. ###
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today joined Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), to introduce the Megabanks Accountability and Consequences Act. The bill empowers the federal banking oversight bodies to wind down megabanks that have engaged in repeated violations of the law and harmed consumers. “The American people have been asking Congress to step up and rein in abusive megabanks, that thwart our laws in order to make a quick profit on the backs of the American people,” said Kaptur. “I am proud to join Ranking Member Waters and stand up for ordinary people who are fed up with the abuses of these big banks who were complicit in the 2008 economic crisis that ravaged our economy. This bill has real teeth and gives federal banking oversight bodies the ability shut down banks that engage illegal abuse.” Today, Kaptur joined Waters and several of her colleagues at a press conference to introduce the Megabanks Accountability and Consequences Act. You can watch the press conference here (Kaptur begins around 11:28 minute mark). Kaptur's remarks at the Megabanks Accountability Act press conference What does the bill do? Requires federal prudential banking regulators to fully utilize existing authorities—such as the ability to shut down a megabank and ban culpable executives and directors from working at another bank – to stop megabanks that clearly and repeatedly engage in practices that harm consumers. The bill also clarifies and enhances the enforcement tool kit to ensure that megabanks and their executives will be held accountable for repeatedly breaking the law and harming consumers. You can read a more detailed summary of the bill here: The Megabank Accountability and Consequences Act - One Pager.pdf Kaptur is a leader in the House on Wall Street reform and has repeatedly spoken out in favor of reining in big banks after the 2008 financial crisis. Her bipartisan bill to restore Glass-Steagall protection and break up the big banks, the Return to Prudent Banking Act of 2017, has 57 cosponsors. ###
10.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today, announced $778,352 Economic Development Administration award to the Ohio Aerospace Institute. This award will help establish a partnership with other funds going to partners in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to focus on developing innovative, new technology in aerospace and water resources. “This award establishes an economic framework for regional experts right here in Ohio, to work toward big advancements in aerospace technology,” said Kaptur. “Setting our sights on what lies beyond the horizon, brings out the best in our Nation. Congratulations to the Ohio Aerospace Institute and its partners. I am committed to supporting this work in Congress and working together to create jobs and new technology that leverage our brilliant local aerospace researchers and experts, all with the potential to make history in aerospace research.” Jeff Rolf, President & CEO of Ohio Aerospace Institute (OAI), says “At OAI, we’re thrilled to be a part of creating an ecosystem, with our partners, that will grow sustainable employment in high-tech industries, while answering the needs of our federal agencies with commercially viable goods and services.” The Ohio Aerospace Institute (OAI) will administer this grant in partnership with the Milwaukee 7(M7). OAI is a non-profit organization that enhances the aerospace competitiveness of its corporate, federal agency, non-profit, and university members through research and technology development, workforce preparedness and engagement with networks for innovation. OAI conducts sponsored research as well as developing and managing research and technology partnerships. M7 is a group of seven counties of southeastern Wisconsin: Kenosha, Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Racine, Walworth, Washington and Waukesha. M7 was formed to create a regional, cooperative economic development platform for the seven counties. Other partners include: the Ohio Development Services Agency (State of Ohio), the Cleveland Foundation, Cuyahoga County, the Gund Foundation, Greater Cleveland Partnership, Team NEO, Jumpstart, Cleveland Water Alliance, Ohio Aerospace and Aviation Council, ZIN Tech, GL Bio, the University of Akron, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland State University, MAGNET, the Milwaukee Water Council, and University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. More information from the Economic Development Administration: This EDA investment funds a feasibility study to identify and assess current economic development assets within the Cleveland and Milwaukee areas, to forge new and stronger connections between technological commercialization, entrepreneurial business development, and manufacturing networks. Completion of the project will support the growth of high-technology clusters and creation of high-wage jobs in non-traditional manufacturing sectors, which will provide economic stability, diversification and strengthen the local economy. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov. ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today signed onto a letter urging further action from the Trump Administration to ensure that Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands receive the assistance and help needed to deal with the ongoing crisis after Hurricane Maria. “The Trump Administration has taken some initial steps to assist Puerto Rico, but we must do more for our fellow Americans,” said Kaptur. “Congress must pass an aid package that will provide the resources for the recovery process and the Department of Defense must make its assets available to Puerto Ricans who need help. This includes waiving, at least temporarily, parts of the Jones Act, in order to allow more assistance and aid to make its way to the island.” If citizens are seeking information or a point of contact regarding Puerto Rico or U.S. Virgin Islands see below: www.VIalert.gov (U.S. Virgin Islands) www.USVIupdate.com (U.S. Virgin Islands) Puerto Rico’s Federal Affairs Administration: By Email: maria1@prfaa.pr.gov By Phone: (202) 800-3133 http://eldiamenospensado.pr.gov/ (Puerto Rico) http://www2.pr.gov/Pages/Huracan.aspx (Puerto Rico) Kaptur also discussed the issue on C-SPAN’s Washington Journal. Watch the video here. Download the letter to President Trump here and see the full text below. In the letter, Kaptur and fellow lawmakers call for the appointment of a senior general to oversee all recovery efforts, the deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier and to increase personnel to assist local law enforcement. The letter was led by Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07) and signed by 145 House Members. Full letter text below: September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: On September 20th, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands endured a direct impact from Hurricane Maria. With winds up to 160 mph, Hurricane Maria devastated these islands, caused significant power outages, destroyed telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby paralyzed the region. Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation. We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts. As you know, the Department of Defense has additional capabilities that could help alleviate suffering in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and prevent this catastrophe from worsening. First and foremost, a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact. This was done in response to Hurricane Katrina, and we feel the same approach is warranted now for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As we are sure you are aware, in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, there are numerous municipalities that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads. Additional aviation assets are needed to get relief supplies to isolated locations. Additionally, substantial ground and air logistics support is required to get aid to the islands, rescue stranded citizens, and provide them with supplies and thereafter assist with the restoration of power and telecommunications infrastructure if needed. To fulfill DOD's mission, we believe the aircraft carrier, USS Abraham Lincoln, should be sent to the region, similar to its deployment to Miami following Hurricane Irma. DHS has indicated it has "provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria's landfall." While these meals and resources are profoundly needed, unfortunately, there is a large portion of the population that has been underserved. Lastly, DOD has critical resources that could assist with addressing security issues. We have heard reports that the ongoing supply shortages are causing looting and crime. We were recently informed of armed gangs ransacking a warehouse that distributes food and supplies. Defense Department personnel could provide essential support to local law enforcement in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to ensure relief supplies are delivered to those most in need- and that those that have already been immensely devastated by the hurricane, do not need to fear for their lives when filling up their gas at the pump or securing food for their family. We thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact us with any questions. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Members of Congress ###
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today wrote a letter, along with three dozen colleagues, asking U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson to provide details regarding HHS Secretary Tom Price’s use of private jets at taxpayer expense. The letter was led by Congressman David N. Cicilline (RI-01) and a PDF of the signed letter can be downloaded by clicking here: Letter to HHS IG - Secretary Price Private Planes.pdf --- Dear Inspector General Levinson, We write to respectfully inquire regarding reports that Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price chartered “private jets on five separate flights for official business, at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars more than commercial travel.” This use of federal funds for private flights would represent a departure from former HHS Secretaries who made a practice of traveling by commercial flights in non-emergency situations. We understand that you have recently begun an investigation into this matter. To that end, we respectfully request a response to the following: On how many occasions has Secretary Price or other HHS officials utilized chartered private flights for official business this year? How much did any private chartered trips cost taxpayers? What is HHS’ policy regarding chartering private planes for official business in non-emergency situations? Did the Secretary’s use of chartered private travel comply with HHS policy? What justification, if any, did Secretary Price provide HHS to charter these flights? For each separate private chartered flight, what attempts, if any, were made to find and book a commercial or other more cost-effective form of travel? Does Secretary Price intend to reimburse taxpayers for these flights? As representatives of our constituents, our duty is to ensure that their tax dollars are being utilized in the most efficient and responsible manner in order to continue to deliver the critical services entrusted to federal agencies. As part of Congress’ oversight role, it is our responsibility to ensure waste, fraud, and abuse of federal tax dollars is scrutinized and corrected when need be. We thank you for your role in providing accountability at HHS and look forward to your response. If our offices can be of service regarding this request, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Members of Congress ###
09.22.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today released the following statement regarding news that due to funding cuts by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Ohio Association of Food Banks (OAFB) will be forced to exit the Affordable Care Act Navigator program. The program provides assistance to Americans who are looking to enroll in health care plans and the OAFB coalition is made up of local partners across the state. The OAFB is the only statewide Navigator in Ohio and has helped 44,000 Ohioans enroll in health care plans. Kaptur statement: “After trying and failing, again and again, President Trump and Congressional Republicans are so determined to fulfill a hollow campaign promise that they will do anything to undermine the progress we have made under the Affordable Care Act. “These arbitrary cuts to the Navigator program pull the rug out from Ohioans who rely on the Ohio Association of Food Banks coalition for assistance in signing up for health care coverage. “Since this Administration is turning its back on helping Americans get insurance, it is on us to step up to make sure our neighbors, friends and family have the health coverage they need. “I will keep fighting for common-sense fixes to the current system and I will work with my colleagues to beat back efforts to play political games with America’s health care system and people’s lives.” Background: Read the press release from the Ohio Association of Food Banks (OAFB) here, which details the 71% funding cut from CMS. The cuts by CMS put assistance at risk for many in Ohio and throughout America. The OAFB coalition has provided outreach to individuals and families about how to enroll in health insurance, assisting them with decisions regarding insurance plans and signing them up since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Navigators, who must approach each consumer individually, also offered community outreach and education to help guide citizens through the complexities of health insurance. ###
09.21.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today announced that the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), as part of the Drug-Free Communities Program, will award just over $170,000 in funds to coalitions in Lorain and Erie Counties that seek to prevent substance use among young people. Communities that Care of Lorain County will receive $46,050 and Partners for Prevention of Erie County in Sandusky will receive $125,000. “Our communities desperately need more of a helping hand from federal partners to fight addiction, and these continuation grants allow Lorain and Erie Counties to keep building on the success of existing programs, that work to keep our children from falling into a cycle of drug use,” said Kaptur. “I will fight to make sure Congress does more to bolster programs that bring together teachers, parents, law enforcement and students to make a real impact in our fight to prevent drug use.” The Drug-Free Communities Program (DFC) has funded more than 2,000 coalitions and about 9,000 volunteers across the country to provide local solutions for local drug issues. Coalition partners are well-situated to effectively address drug trends such as methamphetamines, and illicit prescription or synthetic drug use because they have the infrastructure to take a comprehensive approach to tackling these issues. “In 2009, we were fortunate to receive federal support from the Office of National Drug Control Policy to support our coalition’s work – strengthening collaborations to implement evidence-based prevention strategies to reduce the use of alcohol, tobacco, marijuana and prescription drugs among Lorain County’s youth,” said Elaine Georgas, Executive Director, Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Lorain County. “We are in our tenth year of DFC funding which has had significant successes including; conducting alcohol compliance checks with local police departments and alcohol server knowledge training, working with four communities to strengthen their local social host ordinances, working with parents to host campaigns to address underage alcohol use, educating students about the impact on marijuana use and academic achievement, and promoting med-safes, drug takeback and 24/7 drop boxes to reduce the supply of prescription medications in our communities. We have also conducted education and training through town hall events regarding adolescent brain development, addiction and the power of prevention. The DFC funding was a match funding formula which allowed us to expand our approaches throughout Lorain County.” “Our objectives seek to bolster the community’s quality of life and the many accomplishments of the partnership show a true community-based concern for drug use and prevention,” said Pete Schade, Erie County Health Commissioner. “This funding has helped us begin to win this battle. The Erie County Prevention partnership is a true reflection of the DFC grant intent. We thank our many stakeholders for their ongoing support, while we look forward to our youth making better personal decisions every day.” You can read more the Erie County Prevention partnership here: Erie County Accomplishments - DFC grants.pdf After, President Trump’s 2018 budget proposal called for drastic cuts to the ONDCP, Kaptur, along with a bipartisan group of lawmakers wrote a letter urging the Trump Administration to maintain the office’s funding and its role as a key helping hand in fighting the opioid crisis across the Nation. Background on the Drug-Free Communities Support Program The ONDCP announced that 719 Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program grants totaling $89 million. This represents the largest-ever number of DFC grantees in a single year since the program’s founding. The Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. The DFC Program provides grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community coalitions that facilitate youth and adult participation at the community level in local youth drug use prevention efforts. ###
09.18.2017	Toledo, OH -- The University of Toledo will teach more than 2,000 local high school students and teachers how to use mathematics and computational thinking to solve cybersecurity problems in smart vehicles as part of a new $1.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation. The three-year federal grant for the INITIATE program, which is officially titled Understanding How Integrated Computational Thinking, Engineering Design, and Mathematics Can Help Students Solve Scientific and Technical Problems in Career Technical Education, funds the partnership between UT, NSF and Toledo Public Schools. At the end of each year, students compete in a “modern pinewood derby” where each team races a smart vehicle through an obstacle course without another team hacking the vehicle to crash or disable it. “This grant is a great step towards preparing a workforce in the United States that focuses on cybersecurity and smart vehicle technology,” said Dr. Jared Oluoch, UT assistant professor of computer science and engineering technology and principal investigator of the project. “The concept of smart vehicles is appealing to high school students because it is a new, intriguing idea. Our goal is to improve algebra and geometry standards among the students and prepare them to pursue STEM disciplines in college.” The program engages local high school students in how to design and program secure technologies and helps science teachers in grades nine through 12 integrate computational thinking into their curriculum. The project also investigates whether focusing on a specific problem is an effective way to make mathematics more engaging and relevant to students. The program includes a two-week summer institute for 12 teachers and ongoing academic year meetings designed to assist those teachers in implementing the project into their classrooms with 2,217 students. "The University's forward-thinking proposal to the National Science Foundation will put local students in the center of fast-moving smart car technology research and training,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “NSF funding will help instill job skills and nurture interest in the sciences and mathematics by immersing students in real world problems such as the next wave of cyber security challenges. The University of Toledo, local schools and the federal government have forged a partnership that will engage young learners in addressing the needs of our legacy, job creating automotive industry and begin preparing them for careers in science, tech, engineering and math-related fields.” Oluoch oversaw the development of the INITIATE program along with Dr. Charlene Czerniak, professor emeritus of science education and research professor in the UT College of Engineering, and Dr. Ahmad Javaid, assistant professor of computer science in the UT College of Engineering.
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to protect Ohio aviation industry jobs from unfair practices of foreign airlines, Congressman Bob Gibbs and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur led the Ohio delegation with a letter urging the Trump Administration to enforce our Open Skies agreements. Foreign state-owned airlines, Qatar Airways, Emirates Airlines, and Etihad Airways, receive significant government subsidies, and put American aviation jobs at a disadvantage. The letter, sent by Gibbs and Kaptur and thirteen other Ohio members to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao says, “Open Skies policy is based on ensuring fair and equal competition and markets governed by demand, not government interference,” and that foreign subsidies “deny U.S. airlines an equal opportunity to compete”. Qatar’s and United Arab Emirate’s subsidies are a violation of our Open Skies agreements that puts Ohio’s aviation jobs at risk. Gibbs and Kaptur urged Secretaries Tillerson and Chao to enforce Open Skies agreements “to ensure the future of aviation in the United States.” Gibbs and Kaptur emphasize Ohio’s rich history in aviation, from the Wright Brothers to NASA’s John H Glenn Research Center, and its $3.5 billion impact on the state’s economy. A copy of the letter can be found here: OH delegation open skies letter 2017 final.pdf What They Are Saying: Jill Zuckman, chief spokesperson for the Partnership for Open & Fair Skies: “We are grateful that Ohio’s congressional leaders recognize the incredible harm that rule-breaking Gulf carrier subsidies pose to the American workers who support the U.S. aviation industry. We hope the Trump administration will stand with the hard-working Ohioans whose livelihoods are at risk from this trade cheating, and will take action to enforce our trade deals and restore fair competition.” ###
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today sent a letter urging the Trump administration to release promised funding for the Affordable Care Act’s Navigator enrollment assistance grant program. The letter was led by Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) and cosigned by 31 House Democrats. “Navigators are an essential resource for the American people, and the Navigator program is critical to the success of Open Enrollment. We urge you to unfreeze these funds immediately,” the Members wrote. “Americans already face a number of new hurdles to enrolling in coverage during the upcoming Open Enrollment period, including an enrollment timeframe that has been cut in half and a 90% cut to the outreach budget that could have informed consumers about this significant change. Destabilizing the Navigator program could further compound the challenges consumers will face in understanding when and how to enroll.” The letter, addressed to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma, notes that on Friday, September 1st, HHS unexpectedly froze committed funding for the Navigator grant period that was scheduled to begin on Saturday, September 2nd. As of Monday, September 11th, grantees had received no update on when they should expect to receive this essential funding. The letter urges that funds be released immediately with a retroactive date of September 2nd. Members noted Navigators’ significance in keeping the Marketplaces stable, writing: “Helping Americans sign up for Marketplace coverage has many benefits, including strengthening the risk pool of the individual health insurance market. Conversely, discouraging enrollment could weaken the market and drive up premiums.” Full text of today’s letter:2017.09.12 - HEA - Navigator Grants.pdf September 12, 2017 Secretary Tom Price U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Administrator Seema Verma U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Secretary Price and Administrator Verma: We write to urge you to unfreeze Navigator grants and immediately release Notices of Award to 2017 program grantees. As you know, Navigators are essential to the success of Open Enrollment, which begins just a few weeks from now. Navigators provide an essential, free service to people across the country who need help finding the best plan for their needs and budget. Since its inception, the Navigator program has helped over 9 million consumers learn about their coverage options. Comparing coverage options can be confusing, especially for people who haven’t had insurance in the past. Navigators help consumers find and enroll in the plan that’s best for them and their families. On Friday, September 1st, your Department unexpectedly froze committed funding for the Navigator grant period that was scheduled to begin on Saturday, September 2nd. As of Monday, September 11th, grantees have received no update on when they should expect to receive this essential funding. Disturbingly, we have heard reports that some Navigators have already been laid off because of CMS’s highly unusual actions. Americans already face a number of new hurdles to enrolling in coverage during the upcoming Open Enrollment period, including an enrollment timeframe that has been cut in half and a 90% cut to the outreach budget that could have informed consumers about this significant change. Destabilizing the Navigator program could further compound the challenges consumers will face in understanding when and how to enroll. Helping Americans sign up for Marketplace coverage has many benefits, including strengthening the risk pool of the individual health insurance market. Conversely, discouraging enrollment could weaken the market and drive up premiums. Navigators are an essential resource for the American people, and the Navigator program is critical to the success of Open Enrollment. We urge you to unfreeze these funds immediately with a retroactive date of September 2nd. Sincerely, Carol Shea-Porter Rick LarsenDavid E. Price Tom O’Halleran Emanuel Cleaver Jerrold Nadler Ro Khanna Steve Cohen Adam Smith Earl Blumenauer Michelle Lujan Grisham Raúl Grijalva Danny K. Davis Ted Lieu Dina Titus Joe Courtney Bill Foster Marcy Kaptur David Scott Chellie Pingree John Yarmuth Tim Ryan Charlie Crist Denny Heck Alma Adams William R. Keating Sean Patrick Maloney Lucille Roybal-Allard Jan Schakowsky Bobby Scott Donald S. Beyer Jr. ###
09.12.2017	Toledo, Ohio – This weekend at the Farm Labor Organizing Committee convention in Toledo, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) reiterated her call for workers to be protected in a new North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Specifically, as part of NAFTA renegotiations, Kaptur called for the creation of a Labor Secretariat to advocate for workers on the continent. “To make sure their rights are protected and employers have a steady workforce that’s reliable we [should] create a tri-party labor secretariat between the United States, Mexico and Canada," said Kaptur at the conference. Click here to watch Kaptur’s interview with WTOL Kaptur has been a leading voice for workers in Congress, and she recently authored an oped in The Guardian calling for President Trump to put workers first in NAFTA negotiations. ###
09.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the Energy and Subcommittee on Appropriations, today announced nearly $2.4 million in Department of Energy funding to The University of Toledo for a three-year research initiative on algae derived fuel research. “This funding puts Northwest Ohio at the forefront of a national effort to create new technologies and methods for biofuels,” said Kaptur. “These types of programs can lead to breakthroughs that will create American jobs and enhance our energy security, which is why I remain committed to renewable energy and advanced research from my role overseeing Department of Energy funding on the Appropriations Committee. Congratulations to the researchers at the University of Toledo for receiving this award.” Dr. Sridhar Viamajala, associate professor of chemical engineering at The University of Toledo, calls this three-year project to help algal fuels replace fossil fuels a continuation of his previous work in partnership with Montana State University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Arizona State University. “We are trying to speed up the growth of algae by providing a very high pH environment that allows algae to take up carbon dioxide gas from the atmosphere more efficiently and prevent unwanted contamination,” Viamajala said. “Since it grows in water, algae doesn’t have as much carbon dioxide available. We are trying to improve the cleaner fuel potential.” More about the award from the Department of Energy: These projects will deliver high-impact tools and techniques for increasing the productivity of algae organisms in order to reduce the costs of producing algal biofuels and bioproducts. The funding for this initiative supports the development of a U.S. economy that can help create jobs, spur innovation, improve quality of life, and achieve national energy security. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today introduced the Urban Agriculture Production Act (H.R. 3699), a bipartisan bill to bolster nutritional and farmers’ market programs and help create the next generation of local, urban farmers and food producers. The bill is supported by the National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition and Farmers Market Coalition. “Too many urban neighborhoods are in food deserts that lack stores where people can purchase fresh, healthy foods, so the federal government needs to step up and improve access to nutritious foods,” said Kaptur. “Nutritious and healthy eating can reduce the rate of diabetes, hypertension and obesity related illnesses and my bill builds on successful nutritional programs, like the Seniors Farmers’ Market. As Congress readies to debate the Farm Bill, I’ll fight for programs that bolster farmers, develop our urban centers and help create jobs.” The bill works to spur the development and expansion of regional and local food systems in nontraditional agriculture production areas, like cities and towns. The bill also works to strengthen farmers’ markets, improve nutrition for low-income seniors and veterans and bolster existing U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) programs that support farmers, ranchers, and producers as a tool for economic development. “Communities are addressing these challenges by developing local farmers markets, community gardens, greenhouses, and other food systems to provide fresh, affordable and healthy foods throughout underserved communities and this bill will build on that work,” Kaptur continued. During her tenure in Congress, Kaptur has been a champion of farmers’ markets and other programs and one of the chief authors of urban agriculture legislation. Her legislative efforts have focused on creating places in urban areas to cultivate community agriculture that improve the self-sufficiency of neighborhoods. Kaptur introduces the Urban Agriculture Production Act just as Congress prepares to debate the upcoming Farm Bill reauthorization. Her key goals are to support direct marketing opportunities for local farmers and producers, advance local agriculture in our nation’s most underserved areas, and increase the consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables for our seniors and veterans. What does the bill do? Establishes an Urban Agriculture Liaison and Outreach Program at USDA Expands the Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program to include veterans Provides for competitive grants to advance agriculture production in underserved, undernourished metropolitan areas Creates a loan and loan guarantee program for projects that expand and promote direct producer to consumer marketing and assist in the development of local food business enterprises. Improves federal agricultural reporting with the inclusion of Farmers Markets in the Ag. Census You can read a summary of the bill here: KAPTUR Urban Ag Production Act Section by Section 9.5.17.pdf. And a copy of the bill here: Kaptur Urban Ag Bill TEXT 9.5.17.pdf. Kaptur was joined by 11 original cosponsors Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. Eleanor Holmes-Norton (DC-AL), Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Rep. Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-02), Rep. Alma Adams (NC-12) and Rep. Don Young (AK-AL). ###
09.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, joined as a lead cosponsor of H.R. 3681, the ARPA-E Reauthorization Act of 2017. The bill authorizes reasonable growth in funding for ARPA-E through 2022. The bill was introduced by Ranking Member of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). Additional lead cosponsors on the bill are Congressman Ryan Costello (R-PA) and Congresswoman Mia Love (R-UT). “ARPA-E is a critical program that invests in groundbreaking advanced energy technology and helps American universities and companies lead the world,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, “With this bill, we are forming a bipartisan coalition that is committed to investing in America’s future and not ceding jobs and technological breakthroughs to other countries.” This bipartisan bill comes after the Energy & Water Appropriations package arbitrarily defunded ARPA-E earlier this year. Kaptur championed the program in an op-ed coauthored with Case Western University researchers in the Cleveland Plain Dealer in July, and as Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Kaptur championed the program as a critical tool to position the United States as a global leader in energy technology research. Congresswoman Johnson said, “today I am very pleased to introduce the bipartisan ARPA-E Reauthorization Act of 2017. Even though the agency is still relatively young, ARPA-E has already demonstrated incredible success in advancing high-risk, high-reward energy technology solutions that neither the public nor the private sector had been willing or able to support in the past. This was highlighted in a Congressionally mandated National Academies review of the agency released in June. Industry leaders like Norm Augustine and Bill Gates have repeatedly called for tripling this agency’s budget given the unique role that it is now playing in our energy innovation pipeline… I hope that all Members will consider supporting this critical investment in our nation’s clean energy future.” Congressman Costello said, “Accelerating American energy innovation requires a strong and sustained commitment to new and transformative research. Reauthorizing ARPA-E is a necessary step towards deploying affordable, efficient, and cleaner energy technologies that will improve the quality of life for all Americans.” Congresswoman Love said, “The ARPA-E is an important and cost-effective program that has yielded tangible benefits for the energy sector. I am proud to cosponsor this bipartisan bill that invests in our nation’s advanced energy future.” ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) signed on to an Amicus Brief urging the Supreme Court of the United States to address partisan gerrymandering. Kaptur was joined by a bipartisan group of 36 former and current Representatives and Senators. The Supreme Court will hear the case, Gill v. Whitford, in October, which examines whether Wisconsin's redistricting plan was an impermissible partisan gerrymander. The court’s decision could potentially address the constitutionality of partisan gerrymandering. Key excerpts from the brief: “…extreme partisan gerrymandering harms our political system, and harms the functioning of the House in particular. It puts raw partisan position ahead of maintaining coherent political communities and sensibly sized and shaped districts based on traditional districting criteria. “A cascade of negative results predictably follows: artificially drawn ‘safe’ districts make the general election uncompetitive and wields party insiders and a small core of ‘base’ primary voters greater influence than the general electorate; political parties gain influence and obstruct independent, constituent-first representation; compromise with the other side becomes politically impossible even when there are areas of principled agreement and even when the voters want it; and the People grow frustrated with the capacity of the House to govern effectively, causing disillusionment with and disengagement from our democratic process.” “…extreme partisan gerrymandering is undemocratic, and cannot be reconciled with the Framers’ idea of a House of Representatives that would be directly accountable to the People through competitive and broad-based elections. “…the premise of extreme partisan gerrymandering is that politicians choose their voters, and not the other way around. The Framers’ vision precludes such bald manipulation of the electoral process.” Read the brief here: Amicus Brief Bipartisan Group of Current and Former Members of Congress.pdf “Common Cause commends Congresswoman Kaptur for her leadership in promoting redistricting reform and helping to end hyper-partisan gerrymandering,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at Common Cause. “We hope the Supreme Court will ‘just say no’ to hyper-partisan gerrymandering to help end polarization and partisan gridlock so that Congress can once again get back to work.” In 2015, Ohio voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure to create a bipartisan redistricting commission for state legislative districts. In 2018, Ohio voters will potentially get the opportunity to vote on Fair Districts Ohio, an initiative that would help eliminate hyper-partisan gerrymandering for congressional districts. ###
09.05.2017	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “The President should not threaten the legal status of Dreamers. The United States is the only home many Dreamers have ever known,” said Kaptur. “If DACA is rescinded without a legislative fix, more families and communities will be ripped apart. Keeping families together is the right thing to do. Congress should act swiftly, in a bipartisan manner, to codify the DACA program into law.” “We must stand up for these young people whose economic and cultural contributions make our Nation stronger,” Kaptur continued. According to the Center for American Progress, there are 4,400 Dreamers in Ohio. These individuals contribute about $250 million to the state’s GDP. ###
08.31.2017	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will award $323,100 to the Erie-Ottawa International Airport to update the airport’s master plan and the layout plan to address goals for the future development of the airport. Read more about the award here. “The Erie-Ottawa International Airport is to be congratulated on receiving this award from the FAA,” said Kaptur. “As the largest airport between Cleveland and Toledo located in the center of Ohio’s vacationland, the future development of the airport needs to be carefully considered. These funds will help the Airport to better understand and leverage the development, utilization and economic potential of this great regional transportation asset." “The Airport Authority is thrilled to once again be a recognized as a regional leader in aviation, and excited to put this grant to good use for the people of Erie and Ottawa County and our visitors,” said Stan Gebhardt, Director of the Erie-Ottawa International Airport. Kaptur is the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee which has oversight over all spending activities of the federal government and Dean of the Ohio Delegation. The FAA is housed under the U.S. Department of Transportation with the priorities of keeping the traveling public safe and secure and to have the U.S. transportation system contribute to the nation’s economic growth. ###
08.24.2017	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today announced that the National Science Foundation will award nearly $1 million to the Networking Urban Resources with Teachers and University to enRich Early Childhood Science (NURTURES) project at the University of Toledo to complete the second phase of its early childhood learning project, bringing the total federal award to over $2.2 million. The participants for the second phase of this project includes 120 teachers, 2,400 preschool through third grade children and over 7,200 family members in northwest Ohio and southeast Michigan. “What a tremendous opportunity for the young children, their families and teachers in our region to participate in a project that will enhance their understanding of science and the natural world around them,” said Kaptur. “It is so important for the project team at the University of Toledo to continue to study the impact that family engagement has on a young child’s education. We know that spending time reading to child exposes them to 1.8 million words a year. What other things could families be exposing to their children to set them on a pathway for success in life? The NURTURES project at the University of Toledo aims to find that out.” According to the National Science Foundation, an important facet of this follow-up project is the research effort to understand how each component impacts student learning. Project leaders plan to use control groups and standardized tests to measure the effect of teacher professional development compared to family engagement activities. “We are pleased to receive additional funding from the National Science Foundation for the NURTURES program,” said Dr. Charlene Czerniak, professor emeritus of science education and research professor in The University of Toledo College of Engineering. “Building on our previous success, we will simultaneously target early childhood teachers, families and children to create a broad support system for powerful and effective science teaching and learning. This program will help close the gaps in science, mathematics, reading and literacy for young children.” The program includes five primary components: A two-week summer institute for preschool through third grade teachers in which they have access to both scientists and instructional coaches; Academic year professional development, including monthly professional learning community meetings and one-on-one coaching; Family science activity packets sent home from school four times a year that each include a newsletter with directions for the investigation, necessary materials for the activity and a journal sheet for children to record data or visually represent understanding; Family community science events, such as engineering challenge simulations, and observations and demonstrations at a park, zoo, science center, library or farm; and Public service broadcasts on television that promote family science activities. The University of Toledo’s NURTURES Early Childhood Science program strives to improve the science readiness scores of preschool through third grade students. Earlier this month, The American Association of State Colleges and Universities honored The University of Toledo with its Christa McAuliffe Award for Excellence in Teacher Education in recognition of the NURTURES program. ###
08.21.2017	Toledo, OH -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement after President Donald Trump's speech regarding U.S. strategy in Afghanistan: "There can be no blank check for war anywhere. Committing more American troops without a clear path forward will not lead to the resolution of this sixteen-year war. "Winning battles in ungovernable space does not equal victory. The war in Afghanistan and the instability across that vast, undemocratic region, that includes Pakistan with Iran next door, demands clarity of objective. I did not hear that tonight in the President's address. "The Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense on which I serve must fulfill its Constitutional obligations in matters of war." ###
08.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – As renegotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) begin, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, urged President Donald Trump to focus his intentions on creating a trade deal that lifts up workers. “For many of us, this day has been more than two decades in the making, and I urge President Trump not to let workers in Ohio and across our heartland down,” said Kaptur. “This is no time for politics or pandering to corporations and special interests. America needs a continental compact that lifts up workers on all sides of the border, raises wages and balances U.S. trade accounts.” Kaptur signed on to a letter in June with House Democrats outlining priorities that should be included in any new NAFTA deal. Specifically, Kaptur requested: An open and transparent negotiation process Eliminating special industry privileges and incentives to offshore jobs Ending the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) mechanism Eliminating rules that require waiving ‘Buy American’ and buy local procurement preferences A clear path to close the U.S. trade deficits New rules that benefit farmers and not agribusiness trading and processing firms Imported products and foreign service providers meet U.S. safety standards That renegotiation not be used to expand corporate monopolies on intellectual property for drugs Strict, enforceable disciplines to fight against currency manipulation High, fully enforceable, labor and environmental standards Kaptur is a leading voice for fair trade in the House and has long been an opponent of trade deals like NAFTA that harm workers and favor big corporations. Earlier this year, Kaptur introduced the Balancing Trade Act, which requires the President to address our trade deficit by adjusting our policies with those countries that have a large and continuous trade imbalance with America. Last week, Kaptur wrote to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter comes after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June, a self-imposed deadline that is now six weeks overdue. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. ###
08.13.2017	Toledo, OH -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement: "No community should have to endure what Charlottesville has endured today. My heart breaks for the tragic loss of life and violence that occurred against those who were standing up for liberty and against hate. "This was an act of domestic terrorism. Those who were motivated by the evil of racial or religious hatred or white supremacist notions, or whose intentions were purposefully violent should know the laws of our nation will prevail and those who brutally destroyed innocent life will face full consequences in our courts. "Much gratitude is owed to the first-responders who were on the scene to try and maintain order in chaos. As a nation, we must intensify our resolve to fight against bigotry and hatred whenever and wherever it exists." ###
08.11.2017	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force learned this afternoon that Metroparks of Toledo will receive $500,000 to assist in the redevelopment of Toledo’s Marina District as an urban metropark. According to Kaptur, the metropark of Toledo’s East Riverfront Restoration Phase 1 will receive the funding from Sustain Our Great Lakes, a public-private partnership that supports habitat restoration in the Great Lakes Basin, and is administered by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF). The Toledo East Riverfront Restoration Phase 1 project will restore 21 acres of former brownfields along the Maumee River near downtown Toledo, with a total project cost of over $2.7 million. “The Toledo Metroparks and its public and private partners are to be heartily congratulated for advancing an important and competitive application to receive these funds,” said Kaptur. “Our local community is on the front line of caring for Lake Erie and has worked with federal partners to move this project forward. This major investment in open space in Toledo’s core will have lasting impact on Lake Erie and the Great Lakes ecosystem." Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee on the Interior Department which funds the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. Additional information about the funded Ohio projects and the full 2017 Sustain Our Great Lakes 2017 Grant Slate can be found here. ###
08.11.2017	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, congratulated two Ohio projects that have been awarded over $650,000 from Sustain Our Great Lakes, a public-private partnership that supports habitat restoration in the Great Lakes Basin, which is administered by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF). “I congratulate the Cuyahoga Soil & Water Conservation District and the Nature Conservancy on receiving these awards to restore and enhance our Great Lakes ecosystem,” said Kaptur. “This is a great example of our local communities, who are on the front lines of caring for our Lakes, working with federal partners to move forward. The funds for these projects will protect this precious natural resource and the drinking water of millions of Americans.” The Cuyahoga Soil & Water Conservation District’s Mirror Valley Brook Trout Habitat Restoration received $50,000 from the NFWF Award and, along with matching funds, will enhance road crossings and streambanks to reduce sediment impacts to brook trout habitat with a total project cost of $80,099. The Nature Conservancy, in partnership with Ducks Unlimited and Ohio Division of Wildlife’s Restoring Coastal Wetlands at Toussaint State Wildlife Area received $608,810 from the NFWF Award, and along with matching funds, will restore and enhance approximately 125 acres of emergent wetlands and lowland shrub wetlands within Western Lake Erie’s coastal zone at the Toussaint State Wildlife Area, with a total project cost of over $1.3 million. Additional information about the funded Ohio projects and the full 2017 Sustain Our Great Lakes 2017 Grant Slate can be found here. ###
08.11.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, today wrote to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to inquire about delays into a Commerce Department investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel. This letter comes after Kaptur testified at a Commerce Department hearing (video) on May 24 and urged the Administration to expedite the investigation and any related action. Secretary Ross told Kaptur at the hearing that the report would be completed by June, a self-imposed deadline that is now six weeks overdue. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify. Read the full letter below: The Honorable Wilber Ross, Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretary Ross, Today, I write to follow-up to your statement at the Department of Commerce’s Public Hearing on Section 232 National Security Investigation of Imports of Steel that the ensuing investigation and report would be finished by June 2017. As I emphasized in my testimony at the public hearing we cannot slow walk a national response that cedes our domestic steel’s future, to a rigged predatory set of practices by other nations that win market share by violating the rules. Yet, we are now nearly six weeks after a deadline you set yourself, for which thousands of steelworkers across the country who heard your promise for speedy action continue to wait. It is they who truly deserve an immediate response and plan for action from this Administration. Action to: Stop foreign dumping of steel on our market, beginning with tubular piping; Preserve modernized capacity so our nation can maintain our strategic industrial and defense bases; Develop bridge financing using the full Executive power of the Administration to secure modernized US steel production capacity, economic development and trade adjustment assistance to communities and workers harmed by dumping, and to neutralize the negative impact of the VAT tax; Prescribe immediate retaliatory means to halt circumvention by China, South Korea, Russia, India, Vietnam and any state-directed economy that continues to harm the US. According to Section 232, the Department of Commerce has 270 days to complete an investigation. I urged this Administration at the hearing to expedite this schedule and work as quickly as possible. But your deadline has come and gone and the lives of Americans are at risk and Ohio steelworkers and businesses simply do not have time to wait. I now ask for an update on when these workers can expect the completion of this important investigation? Again, I believe it important to see firsthand the impact our communities face in light of steel dumping. I re-extend to you the invitation to visit Lorain, Ohio in the near future so you can discuss with steelworkers and their families the Administration’s plan to restore strength by creating a level playing field for U.S. steel producers. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur Download a copy of the letter here: Kaptur letter to Sec Ross RE Steel 232 Report Update Aug 11 2017.pdf ###
08.10.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after President Donald Trump declared a national emergency over the opioid crisis: “This is a good step to provide potentially life-saving relief to the millions of Americans suffering from this crisis. Ohio is the epicenter of this crisis, and I know many families will welcome the lifeline of funding that this action will bring. “I will remind the President’s team as they move forward, that Medicaid provides the bulk of addiction treatment and is a key partner in providing much-needed care to those in need. “Our efforts to help Americans faced with addiction continue on, and I will keep working in a bipartisan way to make sure that this White House follows through on their promises.” According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, Ohio has the most prescription opioid overdose deaths in the country. The statement comes just days after Kaptur joined a letter to President Trump urging further action on the recommendations from The Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. ###
08.09.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), joined a letter to President Donald Trump following on the initial findings of The Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. The letter comes after the commission missed two self-imposed deadlines and urges the President to support increased funding for treatment and recovery services. “While we appreciate that the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis led by Governor Chris Christie finally released its interim report on July 31st, we remain concerned that the Trump Administration has not done enough to prioritize the opioid epidemic,” the Members wrote. “…we request that you immediately call on Congress to provide emergency appropriations to combat the opioid epidemic and to cease their efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act,” the Members continued. “Without addressing these two areas of concern, an effective response to this 21st Century public health emergency will be inadequate.” “We are all concerned by the impact of this epidemic on our communities across the country and across all demographics. We are prepared to work with you to help fulfill your campaign promise to ‘end the opioid epidemic in America.’ Without bipartisan legislative action, the recommendations outlined by your Commission’s interim report will remain unfulfilled.” The full text of the letter is available here: Letter POTUS on Christie Commission.pdf The letter was led by Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02) and signed by Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Marcia Fudge (OH-11). ###
08.07.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers made public the Brandon Road Study, which details key recommendations and information for preventing the Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes. “It is encouraging to see that the U.S. Army Corps’ recommendations include serious measures to deal with this invasive species,” said Kaptur. “Now that we have real information on costs we can move on and receive input from stakeholders, whose livelihoods depend on us keeping the Asian carp out of the Lakes.” Kaptur has been leading the charge for the U.S. Army Corps to release the Brandon Road Study and introduced the Stop Asian Carp Now Act to force the release of the study, which had been needlessly delayed by the Administration since the original release date of February 28, 2017. “Our Lakes cannot afford more delays. I remain committed to working in a bipartisan way with the Great Lakes Task Force to ensure this process stays on schedule and moves forward,” Kaptur continued. You can read the study here. Out of several different options, the U.S. Army Corps designated a preferred course of action: “Technology Alternative – Complex Noise with Electric Barrier.” The plan allows for a non-structural approach that allows shipping to continue and includes the following deterrent measures: complex noise, water jets, engineered channel, electric barrier, flushing lock, boat launches and a separate mooring area. The public can submit comments by September 21, 2017, to the U.S. Army Corps here. ###
08.04.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), signed as an original cosponsor of the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2017, H.R. 3426. The bill would expand Medicare coverage to include hearing aids. Hearing loss is the third most prevalent chronic condition in the United States, but the majority of seniors who need hearing aids are not able to afford them. Medicare does not currently cover hearing aids, which can cost upwards of $3,000. “Millions of Americans suffer from hearing loss and as part of the commitment to Medicare, Congress should require coverage of hearing aids to assist seniors with the soaring costs of these essential devices,” said Kaptur. “Along with finding ways to lower prescription drug prices, this is one idea where I hope both parties can agree. So, let’s get to work.” More about the bill: Hearing loss affects nearly 48 million Americans and, left untreated, has serious emotional, social and medical consequences for older adults. Research has shown older adults with hearing loss are 32 percent more likely to require hospitalization, face a 24 percent increased risk for cognitive impairment and increasingly suffer from isolation and depression. The bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on insurance programs that provide services to help with hearing loss. The Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act is cosponsored by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03, Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25). ###
08.03.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, today commended the arrival of $375,000 in funds to the Great Lakes Commission to help restore wetlands in the Maumee River Area of Concern. “The Maumee River is the largest tributary to feed the Great Lakes and is the terminus of the largest watershed in the Great Lakes region. These funds are an important part of our effort to ensure we are doing everything we can to protect this precious natural resource and the drinking water of millions of Americans,” said Kaptur. “This money, awarded to the capable experts at the Great Lakes Commission, will help keep our water clean and enhance our commitment to protect the Great Lakes.” The funds were made possible through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Kaptur has made protecting GLRI a top priority after the Trump Administration proposed to eliminate the program. According to the Great Lakes Commission, the funds will be used to develop engineering design plans to restore wetland habitat at the Penn 7 site in the Maumee River Area of Concern. ###
08.02.2017	Washington D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined a letter with 18 Members of Congress urging President Donald Trump to publicly support and protect the collective bargaining rights of the Mississippi auto workers. The letter was sent in advance of a closely watched vote to unionize a Nissan manufacturing plant in Canton, Mississippi. "As elected representatives of Americans from across the country who are deeply concerned about the future of collective bargaining rights as a matter of public policy, we write to inform you of the mistreatment of American workers in Canton, Mississippi, at the hands of Nissan, to urge you to affirm collective bargaining as a universal and unassailable right, and to ask that you urge the company shift its posture towards the organizing drive at the facility in Canton to neutral," the Members stated in the letter. "...we ask that you declare, in no uncertain terms, that American workers have the right to collectively bargain for better and safer working conditions; that foreign companies operating in the United States unequivocally support workers’ rights towards collective action as established by the National Labor Relations Act and related statutes; and that Nissan USA make a dramatic shift in policy and adopt a neutral stance towards the August 4th NLRB vote," the Members continued. Read the full letter here: Nissan-Union-Letter-7-28-17.pdf Nissan-Union-Letter-7-28-17.pdf
08.02.2017	TOLEDO -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement of concern related to the escalation of risk for human rights defenders in Honduras. “I join the United Nations Assistant Secretary General for Human Rights and my colleagues in Congress in registering grave concern regarding the violent escalation of intimidating threats toward rights defenders in Honduras. Jesuit priest Ismael Moreno, Padre Melo, the entire team of Radio Progreso and ERIC-SJ, the family of slain environmentalist Berta Caceres, and Berta Oliva, director of the Committee of the Detained and Disappeared of Honduras are all under threat. “Statements made by public authorities in Honduras discrediting the work of human rights defenders and journalists put them at risk of physical harm and undermine freedom of speech. These precious advocates for liberty deserve the support and protection of the international community. “Prior to her brutal murder in 2016, indigenous rights defender, Bertha Cáceres was targeted extensively by similar threats and intimidation. The alarming increase in threats to defenders of human rights in recent weeks underscores our responsibility to support the Bertha Cáceres Human Rights in Honduras Act, to speak out on behalf of those at risk, and to insist that the government of Honduras respect, affirm, and protect the full exercise of the rights of all its people.” Kaptur is a lead sponsor of the Berta Cáceres Human Rights in Honduras Act (HR 1299), which would suspend U.S. funding to the Republic of Honduras for their police and military operations, including funds for equipment and training, until the Honduran government investigates credible reports indicating the police and military are violating citizens’ human rights, prohibit international loans providing for security assistance – from being dispersed unless Honduras makes serious inroads to addressing blatant human rights violations by police and military forces. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement after being informed that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will release the Brandon Road Study, which details options for how to prevent the Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes: "I am pleased that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is finally taking this study off the shelf so we can address the urgent issue of Asian carp coming into our Great Lakes. The Brandon Road Study is but one of many important steps to ensure we are doing all we can to protect our Lakes from this voracious predator." The study will be released on August 7, 2017. Kaptur has been leading the charge for the U.S. Army Corps to release the Brandon Road Study and introduced the Stop Asian Carp Now Act to force the release of the study, which has been needlessly delayed by the Administration since the original release date of February 28, 2017. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement after the Senate voted down the latest push to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Let's hope this partisan driven chaos that was causing so much anxiety for the American people, is finally over. I am relieved the Senate rejected this ill-conceived ruse and all the Ohioans who gained the security of health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act can have peace of mind. “The American people need Congress to fight for them on health care instead of appeasing special interests and catering to partisan politics. “We still have work to do, and as I have said from the beginning of this debate, Congress should work on a bipartisan solution that lowers costs and ensures everyone has good quality health care.” ###
07.25.2017	Today, the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus marked a milestone of 50 Members with the addition of Congressman Steve Knight (R-CA) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). Co-Chaired by Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), the Caucus’ significant membership expansion acknowledges the growing bipartisan support for action on climate change. “This surge of support for action on climate change is unprecedented and inspiring,” said Congressman Deutch. “Carlos and I started this Caucus knowing that we had colleagues who similarly felt the need to act on climate change. From coastal Virginia to the farmlands of Nebraska, worsening climate change effects are already having dramatic impacts on regions and communities across the country. Now that 50 Members have signed their name to this bipartisan climate banner, I look forward to translating our shared concerns into actions.” “Now 50 Members strong, the Climate Solutions Caucus is evidence that there is a growing, diverse, and bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress ready to put petty politics aside and find meaningful solutions to the challenges posed by sea level rise and climate change,” Congressman Curbelo said. “We have a responsibility to our constituents and future generations to present a united front to combat anti-climate policies and to have a productive, fact-based dialogue about market-oriented solutions, investments, and innovations that could mitigate the effects of climate change and make our nation more resilient. I’m thankful to these new Members for joining our efforts. Together we are showing the American people that Members of Congress can work across party lines to improve quality of life in our communities and strengthen our great nation." “I am pleased to join this bipartisan effort to tackle the challenges facing our planet because our Great Lakes region knows better than anyone that the changing climate can have an inordinate impact on our precious natural resources,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This group’s commitment to consensus building is a good antidote to the inaction we see from Congress. We can protect our environment and create clean energy jobs in wind, in solar and in energy efficient vehicles when we work together.” “Climate change is a growing issue in our international community," Congressman Knight said. "I am happy to join this bipartisan caucus to protect our environment and security. Constituents of California’s 25th district are proud of our vast valleys and natural resources so I am honored to represent their concerns on this caucus. I look forward to working with my colleagues for common sense, bipartisan legislation regarding climate change.” The mission of the Climate Solutions Caucus is to educate members on economically-viable options to reduce climate risk and to explore bipartisan policy options that address the impacts, causes, and challenges of our changing climate. As determined by the Co-Chairs, the Caucus membership will consist of equal representation by Democrats and Republicans. Below is the full membership list of the Climate Solutions Caucus in the 115th Congress as of July 25, 2017: Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA) Rep. John Delaney (D-MD) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Jerry McNerny (D-CA) Rep. John Faso (R-NY) Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Charlie Crist (D-FL) Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE) Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D-NY) Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY) Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Anne McLane Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA) Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY) Rep. Stacey Plaskett (D-VI) Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) Rep. David Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA) Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) Rep. Scott Taylor (R-VA) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. Stephen Knight (R-CA) ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement: “Our hearts and prayers go out to Senator John McCain and his dear family at this time of tribulation. His lifetime of patriotic service to our nation is truly admirable and rock solid. Like his acerbic wit, his life forms our national character. “As he faces this battle, he lifts our nation in his typical‎ fashion – with courage and soulful confirmation to his countrymen. We stand tall with Senator McCain, drawing our strength from his battle tested heroism.” ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, Dean of the Ohio Delegation, released the following statement regarding the U.S. Trade Representative’s release of objectives for the pending renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “My position has been clear and consistent on NAFTA. In any new deal, we must create a continental compact that lifts workers and raises wages on all sides of the border,” said Kaptur. “The President spoke a lot about trade issues on the campaign trail in Ohio and throughout the Midwest, and he promised a good deal for the American people. Our job in Congress is to make sure he follows through." “In the coming days I will be reviewing these objectives to ensure that this outline will help reduce our ballooning trade deficit, and provide both stability and opportunity for our workers and our businesses,” Kaptur continued. Kaptur is a leading voice for fair trade in the House and has long been an opponent of trade deals like NAFTA that harm workers and favor big corporations. Earlier this year, Kaptur introduced the Balancing Trade Act, which requires the President to address our trade deficit by adjusting our policies with those countries that have a large and continuous trade imbalance with America. Specifically, the Administration would be directed to create a concrete plan to address a deficit with any country with which we have a deficit of $10 billion or more for three consecutive years. Kaptur also signed on to a letter in June with House Democrats outlining priorities that should be included in any new NAFTA deal. ###
07.12.2017	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) stood up today, as Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, to demand the Army Corps of Engineers release the Brandon Road Study. The Amendment was bipartisan and is the exact same as Kaptur’s Stop Asian Carp Now Act, which would require the Army Corps to release the report within seven days of enactment. Congressman Dave Joyce (R-OH-14) and Congressman John Moolenaar (R-MI-04) joined her effort as cosponsors of the amendment. Kaptur ultimately withdrew her Amendment as Energy and Water Appropriations Chair Mike Simpson (R-ID-02), in a show of bipartisanship, pledged to work with Kaptur, Joyce, Moolenaar and the other Great Lakes members to urge the Army Corps to release the report. Kaptur closed her remarks by saying: “We’ve got to put petty interests aside and figure out how to save the Great Lakes.”
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman David Joyce (OH-14), both members of the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced that the subcommittee has included their request for full funding of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in its 2018 spending bill. This action is an important step to ensuring any final bill this year continues funding to the GLRI. “As soon as President Trump’s draconian budget was released I knew we would need a bipartisan front to beat back the harmful cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. I commend the bipartisan effort that was put into protecting GLRI funding for the Lakes, and I hope we can keep building on this progress,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It is still beyond me why the President whose political fortune is so tied to the Great Lakes states, would gut funding for such a valuable environmental and economic resource as the Great Lakes. As Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, I will keep the pressure up to ensure Congress provides the resources necessary to ensure the health and productivity of the Great Lakes.” “This is about where we swim, where we fish, and most importantly where we draw our drinking water. It is imperative that we continue to protect our Great Lakes which continues to be an environmental and economic engine for our region. Multiple administrations have yet to see the wisdom of protecting this national treasure at the levels it deserves and it is incumbent that the Great Lakes legislators continue to do the heavy lifting to protect it. We have staved off elimination, but, this is just the first step in a long battle to the finish line to protect 20 percent of the world’s fresh water,” said Congressman Joyce. ###
07.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur joined 12 of her colleagues in a letter urging President Donald Trump to confront the Russian President on the following transgressions around the world including: Russia’s violations of international law and of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine; Russia’s support for the Assad regime in the brutal war in Syria; and Russia’s cyber-attacks on the United States to influence its elections and systematically sow disinformation in the United States. The letter also urges President Trump not to give President Putin concessions on relief from sanctions. Letter text and a list of signatories: President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: In light of National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster’s statements that you have “no specific agenda,” [1] we write to offer you some important topics for discussion in advance of your first meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin this week on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit in Hamburg. Given the numerous destabilizing actions Russia has taken here in the U.S. and across the globe, we believe this meeting warrants a specific agenda to ensure that Russia will not be emboldened to continue on its current course. This high stakes meeting will present the opportunity to confront the Russian President on the following transgressions around the world: 1) Russia’s violations of international law and of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine; 2) Russia’s support for the Assad regime in the brutal war in Syria; and 3) Russia’s cyber-attacks on the United States to influence our elections and systematically sow disinformation in the United States. It is imperative that you use this meeting to confront President Putin on these critical issues. Since Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, over 10,000 people have been killed, 20,000 people have been wounded, and two million people have been internally displaced, according to estimates by the United Nations. Further, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has concluded there were nearly 300,000 ceasefire violations in 2016. In recent months these violations have only worsened the instability in the region due to an escalation of violence by Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. This demonstrates a critical need for you to reiterate the importance of Russia complying with the Minsk Agreement to President Putin. In Syria, United Nations Commission of Inquiry (UNCI) has said the Syrian government and allied Russian forces have engaged in tactics that amount to the war crime of indiscriminate attacks. This includes the indiscriminate bombing of densely populated civilian areas in Aleppo with aerial bombs, air-to-surface rockets, cluster munitions, incendiary bombs, barrel bombs, and toxic chlorine bombs. According to the UNCI, the Syrian government planned and carried out an air strike that killed 14 aid workers. Further, an estimated 400,000 people are living under siege in areas across Syria, according to the United Nations. Deliberate attacks on humanitarian relief personnel, denial of humanitarian aid, and attacking civilians are all war crimes. We urge you to confront President Putin about Russia’s continued support for the Assad regime in Syria to ensure he understands the U.S.’s commitment to human rights and the rule of international law. Finally, we now know Russia’s interference in our elections, which has been confirmed unanimously by the U.S. intelligence community in a declassified report, poses a problem that goes far beyond foreign policy and strikes at the core of our democracy. As the report stated, “Russian efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election represent the most recent expression of Moscow’s longstanding desire to undermine the U.S.-led liberal democratic order, but these activities demonstrated a significant escalation in directness, level of activity, and scope of effort compared to previous operations.”[2] It was their unanimous determination that “Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election.”[3] Russia’s goals to undermine public faith in our democratic process have been clear. In order to ensure Russia does not employ the same tactics in future efforts here in the U.S. or worldwide, including against U.S. allies and their election processes, we urge you to confront President Putin directly about Russia’s attack on our democracy. We urge you to work with Congress in holding Russia accountable for its aggression in Ukraine and Syria, and for interfering in our elections. We believe it critically important that you do not give President Putin any concessions on sanctions relief. We urge you to take a strong position on these important issues with President Putin during your meeting with him on Friday. We look forward to working with you to ensure Russia is held accountable and understanding the outcome of your meeting upon your return. Sincerely, Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ–09) Michael E. Capuano (MA–07) Steve Cohen (TN–09) Colleen Hanabusa (HI–01) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX–18) Marcy Kaptur (OH–09) Betty McCollum (MN–04) James P. McGovern (MA–02) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ–06) Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ–10) Jamie Raskin (MD–08) Carol Shea-Porter (NH–01) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ–12) ###
06.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) introduced the Transform Student Debt to Home Equity Act. The bill directs the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to create a pilot program for creditworthy student debt holders to transform their student debt into an opportunity to purchase and own a home. “Congress must do more to help working and middle-class people create wealth and the Transform Student Debt to Home Equity Act offers us a road forward to help transform student debt into home ownership,” said Kaptur. “This bill directs the U.S. Department of Housing and the Federal Housing Finance Agency to start a pilot program that connects people with student debt with habitable properties for sale but on the federal ledger.” In the coming months, Kaptur will be working with stakeholders in Ohio and Washington, D.C. to get input on how businesses, organizations, states and Federal agencies can work together to increase the opportunity for homeownership through student debt. “Creating options for the millions of people with student debt to buy their first home, would allow a new generation to pay off debts and help strengthen neighborhoods, all simply by maintaining a home mortgage,” continued Kaptur. Kaptur gave a speech on the House floor which you can view here. What does the bill do? The bill authorizes HUD and FHFA to establish a pilot demonstration that connects creditworthy federal student debt holders with housing properties for sale but held by the federal government. The goal of the pilot project would be to create a program that recalculates financing terms, debt-to-income ratios, interest rates, or other factors in order to transition federal student loan debt into long-term homeownership. The bill also requires the related agencies to report back to Congress on such a pilot program within 90 days of enactment. The bill does not direct any specific plan but does request the related agencies propose a pilot program that could potentially be used as a national model for enabling college graduates to restructure their student debt into an opportunity to purchase habitable foreclosed and vacant homes across the country. See the section by section of the bill here: Section by Section Transform Student Debt to Home Equity Act.pdf The bill has six cosponsors: Reps. William Lacy Clay, Jr. (MO-01), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Robert Brady (PA-01), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) and Chellie Pingree (ME-01). ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the Dean of the Ohio Congressional Delegation, spoke on the House floor about Vice President Mike Pence’s visit to a Northeast Ohio manufacturing facility to discuss the flawed and harmful TrumpCare proposal. Kaptur was dressed in black to mark the GOP’s efforts to slash Medicaid. Key excerpts from the speech: “Ohioans should know the bill the GOP is trying to ramrod through Congress would threaten nearly one million Ohioans who gained coverage over the last few years through the Affordable Care Act. Further, seniors would see their premiums rise by four to five times as much with nothing being done to lower their cost of medicine. “Why is this Administration making things worse for Ohioans? We need to maintain Medicaid for treatment of those Americans who are sick, those who are suffering, those in nursing homes, those who are mentally ill and those who are suffering from terminal illness. “The Pence-Trump doctrine will hurt them all. I hope the Vice President won’t mislead our people about how many Ohioans will lose coverage. “Is the Vice President aware that health care jobs help drive our economy? And the TrumpCare bill, which is really a tax break for millionaires, will cause an Ohio job loss of over 80,000 workers over the next five years. “I urge the Vice President to meet with officials from Cleveland Clinic, Metro Health or the Sisters of Charity, hear what they have to say about the GOP’s anti-life bill.” Watch the speech here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4675181/kaptur-speaks-vp-pences-visit-northeast-ohio-sell-flawed-health-care-bill ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its analysis of the Senate’s anti-life measure to repeal Obamacare: “Why are Republicans in Congress wasting precious time scheming in secret about how to take away health security from our most vulnerable -- our sick, our children, our seniors, the disabled and the mentally ill? “Today’s CBO estimate confirms that the latest ploy to steal health security from average Americans to further enrich millionaires and billionaires will result in 22 million Americans losing coverage. And the kicker is that not only will costs go up under this bill, but jobs and hospitals will move away from small communities and rural counties where health care is harder to access. “Enough is enough! Republicans must stop gambling with the lives of millions of Americans as their well-being is far more important than another tax cut for a select few. “Medicaid is a lifeline to families in Ohio who care for a mentally ill or disabled family member, an elderly relative in a nursing home, or someone who is facing the tragedy of opioid addiction. This Republican plan is an attack on millions of Americans who are far too busy holding life together to see this mean-spirited cash grab coming their way. “Let me say it again: Congress should start over and produce a bipartisan bill that expands coverage and reduces costs for all Americans.” ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25), introduced legislation, H.R. 3033 the Aeronautics Innovation Act of 2017, which creates funding and programmatic stability for NASA to mature and demonstrate new aeronautics technology that will continue to secure the Nation’s position as the world’s leading air and economic power. “The work NASA does should always enjoy bipartisan support in Congress,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “For Ohio and its aerospace industry, NASA is a jobs and ideas engine that contributes to local economies across the state and to national scientific knowledge. This bill will bolster investments in the science of space and as well as to technology that benefits daily life on Earth including advancements in everything from transportation to the operating room. Investments in NASA and science are investments in jobs and a better quality of life.” “The Aeronautics Innovation Act helps NASA in their advancement of aviation technology,” said Rep. Knight. “By supporting NASA in these projects for innovation, we can ensure the United States remains the leader in transforming the aircraft industry that will also strengthen our military capabilities.” The Aeronautics Innovation Act assures sustained support for the NASA Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate’s (ARMD) Strategic Implementation Plan and encourages NASA to continue pursuing this strategy and sets authorization levels for the Aeronautics directorate for five years: $790 million in FY 2018, $880 million in FY 2019, $924 million in FY 2020, $946 million in FY 2021, and $980 million in FY 2022. If passed, this bill will also finally establish a national policy for aeronautics research that will maintain U.S. superiority in air capabilities and aviation industrial leadership. “Internationally, our aircraft competitors are always challenging the norm and looking for new, more efficient ways of flight. This bill will support our team here in the United States so we can continue to compete with international innovation and remain on top of the curve,” Rep. Knight continued. This legislation has already received support from many aeronautics organizations, including the Antelope Valley Board of Trade (AVBOT), General Aviation Manufacturers Association, Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI), the Small UAV Coalition, and NASA Aerospace Support Team, the Palmdale Chamber of Commerce, and the Santa Clarita Valley Economic Development Corporation. “The Aeronautics Innovation Act properly invests in the critical NASA research that allows our aerospace industry to continue as the global leader in aeronautics research and technology development,” said Delma C. Freeman, President of NASA Aerospace Support Team. Learn more about the bill here: 2017 Kaptur Knight_Aeronautics Innovation Act Summary.pdf ###
06.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – The Co-Chairs of the House Great Lakes Task Force, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Congressman Sean Duffy (WI-07) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25) and Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition Co-Chairs, Congressman David P. Joyce (OH-14) and Rick Nolan (MN-08), released the following statement regarding news that a live Asian carp was caught about nine miles from Lake Michigan, past the protective barriers. “This news is deeply troubling and the threat of Asian carp has long been a concern of this Task Force and experts across the Great Lakes,” said the Co-Chairs. “This is further evidence that action must be taken to protect our Great Lakes from this grievous threat. We urge this Administration to release the Brandon Road Lock and Dam Study as required by the recently introduced Stop Asian Carp Now Act, so we can move forward to keep the Asian carp out of the Great Lakes before it is too late.” The House Great Lakes Task Force is a bipartisan group that works across the Great Lakes region to ensure the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. ###
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and the most senior woman serving in Congress, today released the following statement regarding the draft Senate health care bill: “Health care is about life and death. Now that we have a draft bill from the Senate, ‎we know that Medicaid coverage will be heavily cut back. These are lifeline cuts to vital care and services for our children, seniors, those suffering from opioid addiction as well as the disabled and mentally ill. “Americans should rise up in resounding protest from coast to coast. Caring for the most fragile and ill among us cannot be left to chance. Is not life itself a right of citizenship in our great nation? “We all know amazing families who care for the terribly sick and infirm, and for those who will never be able to realize the dreams they once held due to illness and disability. To put them on the chopping block is un-American. It is cruel. It is not fulfilling the commitment to life, liberty, and happiness the Preamble to our Constitution promises. “Vice President Hubert Humphrey said it eloquently: ‘The moral test of government is how it treats those who are in the dawn of life, the children; those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly; and those who are in the shadows of life, the sick, the needy and the handicapped.’ “It is against this measuring bar we must evaluate this harmful concoction that the Senate has produced from behind closed doors. We all know well when you legislate in the dark, you risk harming the American people. The stakes could not be higher.” ###
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) introduced legislation that would hold drug manufacturers accountable for spiking the price of prescription drugs; the Stop Price Gouging Act, H.R. 2974, uniquely protects consumers and penalizes drug corporations that spike drug prices deliberately without justification. Earlier this month Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) introduced a Senate version of the bill. “In the last year, 28 million Americans saw a price spike for the drugs they take and 4 million of them had to stop taking their prescription because drug manufacturer raised the price so high they could no longer afford the medicine,” said Congressman Pocan. “This legislation is crucially needed to protect Americans from drug manufacturers making an excessive profit off of Americans need for life-saving medications. The Stop Price Gouging Act holds drug manufacturers responsible and is the first bill that truly protects American consumers from the increasing cost of prescription drugs.” “We need to stand up to drug companies that are more worried about bolstering profits for their Wall Street investors, than making sure people can afford life-saving medication,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Thank you, Congressman Pocan for leading with me in the House to shine some sunlight on drug companies’ shady price gouging. The predatory pricing practicing of giant, largely faceless, corporations must get the sunlight they deserve. The well-being of millions of America depends on it.” About the bill: The Stop Price Gouging Act holds pharmaceutical companies accountable and protects consumers from egregious year-after-year price spikes and large, unjustified single price spikes companies use when they reach the end of their patent life or are looking for a quick increase in revenue. In recent years, America has witnessed a rapid increase in prescription drug costs. Between 2010 and 2014, thirty common pharmaceuticals experienced an average price increase of approximately 76 percent. These massive price increases have had an inordinate impact on the elderly and most seniors cannot absorb the price shock of rapidly rising drug prices. This situation has left Medicare and in turn taxpayers on the hook. Specifically, the bill does the following: Requires pharmaceutical corporations to report any increases in the price of their products, as well as justification for any increases that exceed medical inflation, to the public. Imposes a penalty on corporations that engage in excessive, unjustified price increases that is proportional to the size of the price spike. Instructs the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study examining how drug manufacturers establish initial launch prices and suggest best practices for monitoring new drug pricing; and Reinvests revenues collected from companies will be invested in future drug research and development at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). House bill is endorsed by Public Citizen, Social Security Works, Center for Medicare Advocacy, Daily Kos, Families USA, Knowledge Ecology International, and Universities Allied for Essential Medicines ###
06.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) led a bipartisan group of Members in introducing a bill, the Stop Asian Carp Now Act, which will compel to the Trump Administration to release the Brandon Road Study within seven days of the bill’s enactment. The Brandon Road Lock and Dam study will provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes and is an important hurdle before further action can be taken. Kaptur and Stabenow are respective Co-Chairs of the House and Senate Great Lakes Task Force and were joined in leading the effort by fellow Co-Chair Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-02) and a total of 38 original cosponsors. “The Administration can’t explain why we have waited since February for a report that cost taxpayers $6 million. We should be aggressively pursuing action to prevent the spread of the Asian carp to the Great Lakes, yet the roadmap to getting there is sitting on a shelf somewhere in the Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This bipartisan bill to force the release of the Brandon Road Study once and for all, will help us all move forward to protecting our Great Lakes.” “It’s incredibly irresponsible for the Trump Administration to continue to block the Army Corps from releasing a crucial plan to address the threat of Asian carp to our Great Lakes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our Great Lakes are so essential to our economy and our way of life in Michigan. Our bipartisan bill would require the Administration to release the report immediately so we can move forward with a permanent solution.” “The threat Asian carp pose to the Great Lakes both ecologically and economically is clear. As policymakers, it is critical that we have the best information available to protect the Great Lakes. Delaying the release of the completed Brandon Road study only shortens the window we have to address this growing problem. I urge the Trump Administration to release this important study so we can determine the best path forward in stopping the spread of this destructive and invasive species,” said Congressman Huizenga. Background: Asian carp represent a serious economic and environmental threat to the Great Lakes and this report is a critical next step in finding and implementing a solution. The report has already been delayed by the Trump Administration from its expected release in February of this year. Once the report is released a public comment period can begin, and further action can be decided in an open and transparent way. The seven cosponsors in the Senate so far are Senators Peters (D-MI), Baldwin (D-WI), Brown (D-OH), Franken (D-MN) Klobuchar (D-MN), Durbin (D-IL) and Duckworth (D-IL). The 31 cosponsors in the House so far are Reps. Huizenga (MI-02), Joyce (OH-14), Slaughter (NY-25), Nolan (MN-08), Trott (MI-11), Bergman (MI-01), Moolenaar (MI-04), Walberg (MI-07), Kildee (MI-05), Upton (MI-06), Schneider (IL-10), Mike Bishop (MI-08), Dingell (MI-12), Lawrence (MI-14), Walz (MN-01), Quigley (IL-05), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Conyers (MI-13), Moore (WI-04), Gallagher (WI-08), Chris Collins (NY-27), Schakowsky (IL-09), Mitchell (MI-10), Duffy (WI-07), Pocan (WI-02), Levin (MI-09), Fudge (OH-11), Stefanik (NY-21), Latta (OH-05), Amash (MI-03) and Brian Higgins (NY-26). ### Contact: Kaptur: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 Stabenow: Miranda Margowsky, (202) 224-1154 Huizenga: Brian Patrick, (616) 570-0917
06.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and 200 Members of Congress filed a federal lawsuit against President Trump for violating one of the Constitution’s critical anti-corruption provisions: the Foreign Emoluments Clause. The emoluments clause prohibits the President from accepting foreign payments without seeking and receiving Congressional authorization. During the first weeks of the 115th Congress Kaptur filed a House Resolution that explicitly denies President Trump consent of acceptance of any and all payments, benefits and gifts. The Resolution would make clear the position of Congress in regards to a President’s ability to accept emoluments. You can read more about Kaptur’s legislation in her op-ed in The Hill here. “I swore an oath to protect the Constitution, which in this regard is plain as day; no President is exempt from the Constitution. This isn’t some obscure provision buried in our laws, this was put there by the Founding Fathers in order to prevent corrupting influence by foreign governments, individuals or businesses,” said Kaptur. “President Trump has a constitutional responsibility to go to Congress regarding any type of benefit he receives from a foreign entity, which he is currently receiving daily due to his sprawling global financial interests. He has refused to do so and that is why I have joined this lawsuit.” Background: From the beginning of his Administration, President Trump’s embrace of Russia, pandering to Saudi Arabia, and sudden weakness before China have raised urgent questions about his financial conflicts of interest. Since the lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia last week, public reporting has revealed that President Trump has received additional foreign benefits – including new trademarks in China – and is brokering business deals in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf while regional tensions escalate. The Emoluments Clause provides that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” What is the Emolument’s clause and how does it apply to Trump? For more, read a report from the Brookings Institution authored by former Republican and Democratic ethics advisors. ###
06.15.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced the inclusion of $15 million in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill for the 180th Fighter Wing. The funds will be used to replace and upgrade the temporary hangers that are part of North American Air Defense Command’s (NORAD) mission. Kaptur, whose work on the Appropriations is widely credited with upgrading the 180th’s facilities in Toledo and Ottawa County’s Camp Perry, voted today to move the funding bill out of the Appropriations Committee and on to the House floor. “The men and women of the 180th Fighter Wing in Northwest Ohio deserve state of the art facilities so that they can defend our Homeland,” said Kaptur. “NORAD is a critical line of defense for our Nation, and this investment in the 180th will help ensure efficiency and stability so our troops can support NORAD’s mission. I will always work together, in a bipartisan way to make sure Congress continues to deliver on these critical investments in military bases both here and abroad.” Background: The current temporary Aerospace Control Alert hangar shelters are quickly reaching their life expectancy with inadequate fire suppression and design specifications to support fighter aircraft. The mission supports dozens of jobs at the base and with a substantial payroll of $7.9 million. It is noted as a top military construction priority for Ohio, as NORAD is the United States’ number one homeland protection alert mission. Kaptur is the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and Ranking Member of its Energy and Water Subcommittee in addition to serving on its Defense and Interior Subcommittees. ###
06.15.2017	Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) is cheering news today that Cleveland-headquartered Cliffs Natural Resources (Cliffs) has selected the Port of Toledo and East Toledo’s Ironville site as a home for the company’s new Hot Briquette Iron processing facility. The project will bring 1,200 construction jobs, more than 130 permanent jobs, and a $700 million investment to the Toledo area. The company intends to break ground in early 2018, with the plant becoming operational in 2020. “A big Toledo welcome to Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources as it embarks on new corporate investment to serve the American steelmaking market,” said Kaptur. “When we set about to bring the Ironville site to economic reuse, we were driven by the potential for jobs in East Toledo. The confluence of a job ready site and Toledo’s excellent distribution and transportation network helped to put the Toledo Port site over the top, attracting major investment and the jobs that will come with it.” When operational, the Cliffs Toledo facility will receive iron ore mined in Minnesota and Michigan and convert it to briquettes used in steel making. Kaptur discussed the investment with Cliffs CEO and Chairman, Lourenco Goncalves, and pledged her assistance with federal and state permitting. Kaptur was instrumental in directing federal funds to help clean up and prepare the Ironville site for new development, all with the intention to create jobs and drive economic activity in the Toledo area. "For many months, our region has been working toward and anticipating this potential major investment by Cliffs, one of the most respected and oldest firms in the Great Lakes, at 170 years. Not only will this create jobs, but it will include a multi-story tower that will change our skyline. Additionally, these jobs will be focused on transforming raw materials for use in the oil and gas industry, the auto sector, mill and pipe operations and the steel industry. As Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, I congratulate the Port Authority of Toledo and I pledge to continue working with all parties involved through completion of construction and continuing necessary investments in Great Lakes infrastructure to allow this industry to flourish and expand," Kaptur continued. Kaptur is the Ranking Member of the House Energy and Water Subcommittee which has oversight over U.S. Department of Energy and Army Corps of Engineers funding and operations. ### News Articles about the announcement: Toledo Blade: $700-million iron ore plant set for former E. Toledo industrial site Cleveland Plain Dealer: Cliffs Natural Resources to build new iron processing facility in Toledo WTOL: Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources chooses Toledo for new iron processing facility
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) this week joined several House Democrats in sending a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer, detailing priorities with respect to renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In the letter, Members requested direct collaboration with the Administration, a transparent and public renegotiation process, stripping special provisions that encourage companies to offshore jobs, fully enforceable labor and environmental standards, and other critical provisions. “During the 2016 campaign, President Trump made numerous promises to stop NAFTA’s ongoing damage to America’s workforce, and to create jobs and increase wages among middle class and working families,” wrote the Members. “Given the President’s promises, it is critical to change both NAFTA’s policies and the process by which NAFTA is renegotiated. Marginal adjustments around the edges of the Agreement will not suffice.” “Among our chief responsibilities as lawmakers is to ensure the American economy is inclusive and does not leave American families behind,” continued the Members. “We invite you to work closely with Members of Congress throughout the negotiation process and to consult our offices often. We look forward to working with you to deliver an agreement that delivers results and opportunity for the American people.” Specifically, the Members are requesting: An open and transparent negotiation process Eliminating special industry privileges and incentives to offshore jobs Ending the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) mechanism Eliminating rules that require waiving ‘Buy American’ and buy local procurement preferences A clear path to close the U.S. trade deficits New rules that benefit farmers and not agribusiness trading and processing firms Imported products and foreign service providers meet U.S. safety standards That renegotiations not be used to expand corporate monopolies on intellectual property for drugs Strict, enforceable disciplines to fight against currency manipulation High, fully enforceable, labor and environmental standards The letter was signed by U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Richard M. Nolan (MN-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), and Paul Tonko (NY-20). Read the full letter here: House-Dems-NAFTA-Renegotiation-Comments-6-12-17.pdf ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement: “My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Scalise and the staff who were injured during today’s tragic act of violence. Thank you to the brave first responders and may the angels of mercy heal our wounded colleagues‎, their staff and others who were harmed. Let the power of civil order and peace, not violence, rise across our Nation.” ###
06.08.2017	"The recent move by Anthem to leave the health care exchange could cause real harm to the people of Ohio. Congress should be working together to build on the Affordable Care Act and address issues, but sadly President Trump and Republicans in Congress are intent on pushing their harmful bill that doesn’t fix the issues Americans are facing every day. Ohio isn’t the only state experiencing challenges, so we should we work in a bipartisan way to make sure all Americans can get quality, affordable insurance. "If you need help navigating the health insurance marketplace to look for a new plan in 2018, you may visit https://www.healthcare.gov/ or contact the Ohio Association of Foodbanks, which is Ohio’s Health Insurance Marketplace Navigator and can help with marketplace insurance questions and direct you to navigators in your community. You may visit the website at www.ohiofoodbanks.org or call 1-800-648-1176 for help."
06.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the day President Donald Trump visits Ohio, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) was joined by Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) in a letter to President Trump to urge this Administration to put the American people first, and act on big, broad policies that invest in America’s infrastructure and economy. Key excerpts from the letter: “For too long, our nation’s infrastructure needs have been neglected. We welcome your push to correct this situation. However, we believe a wide view in interpreting what entails infrastructure will yield the best results to restore America’s greatness. Investments in foundational assets, such as drinking water systems, the national electric grid, or efficiency in homes and buildings, along with roads, our seaports and waterways, bridges, and rail investments, will pay dividends for generations to come. The letter concludes by stating: “Perhaps no opportunity better presents a chance to revitalize the domestic steel industry than an expansive infrastructure initiative. We must view an infrastructure bill as investments to ensure the free flow of people and commerce, but also as an opportunity to invest in our foundational economic sectors. We look forward to working with you to address all of these critical needs and to ensure that our infrastructure investments in this country are as worthy as its people.” The Members state in the letter that investments should be made in traditional avenues such as roads, bridges and waterways, but also our National Parks, the electric grid, local water systems, as well as weatherization and energy efficiency for middle-class Americans’ homes. Read the full letter here: Ohio House Dem infrastructure letter 06072017.pdf ### Contact: Contact: Josh Stewart, Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov (Kaptur) Michael Zetts, Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov (Ryan) Lauren E. Williams, Lauren.Williams@mail.house.gov (Fudge) Dominic Manecke, Dominic.Manecke@mail.house.gov (Beatty)
06.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) testified to the House Rules Committee on their bipartisan amendment to H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act. The Kaptur-Jones amendment would have removed the bill’s current language, which takes America backward on Wall Street reform, and replaced it with the Return to Prudent Banking Act, a bill led by Kaptur, which reinstates critical Glass-Steagall protections. Watch their testimony to the Rules Committee here. The Committee voted down the Kaptur-Jones amendment. “Though we are disappointed our efforts fell short today, the American people should know that there is a bipartisan consensus in Congress fighting to rein in Wall Street,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Wall Street profits continue to rise at the expense of the American people, yet the Financial CHOICE Act takes us backward on protecting consumers. Despite this setback, we will keep working to make sure our banking system works for Main Street, not millionaire investors.” “Today might not have been our day, but Congresswoman Kaptur and I remain resolute in our fight to protect American taxpayers and depositors from risky Wall Street decisions,” said Congressman Jones. “I have full faith that with bipartisan support, we can reinstate Glass-Steagall protections for the good of the American people.” Background: The Return to Prudent Banking Act restores the separation of commercial and investment banking. As such, it goes far to restore stability to Wall Street and reduce the size of the mega-banks that the 2008 banking crisis and taxpayer bailout proved to be “too big to fail.” The justification for this policy is straightforward. When Congress created the FDIC in 1933, it provided abundant credit for banks from depositors and rationally restricted FDIC-insured banks from risky activities, including investment banking. Over the years, the banking industry persuaded regulators and then Congress to eliminate this separation with the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act. Less than a decade later, reckless Wall Street activity led to the crash from which the nation still struggles to recover. Kaptur and Jones have long been proponents of restoring Glass-Steagall protections to the banking system. The Return to Prudent Banking Act was reintroduced in February of this year and has the bipartisan support of 50 cosponsors. Support for the restoration of Glass-Steagall protections was also in the adopted platforms of the Democratic and Republican Parties at last year’s National Conventions. Learn more about the bill’s history and introduction here. ###
06.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) introduced to the House Rules Committee a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act, which is set to move to the House floor for a vote this week. The Kaptur-Jones amendment removes the bill’s current language, which takes America backward on Wall Street reform, and replaces it with the Return to Prudent Banking Act, a bill led by Kaptur, which reinstates critical Glass-Steagall protections. Kaptur and Jones will both testify at the Rules Committee hearing which will determine whether this much-needed measure will make it to the House floor for a vote. When: June 6, 2017, 5:00 PM (estimated hearing start time) Where: Rules Committee, H-313, U.S. Capitol Video will be streamed on the Rules Committee website Background: The Return to Prudent Banking Act restores the separation of commercial and investment banking. As such, it goes far to restore stability to Wall Street and reduce the size of the mega-banks that the 2008 banking crisis and taxpayer bailout proved to be “too big to fail.” The justification for this policy is straightforward. When Congress created the FDIC in 1933, it provided abundant credit for banks from depositors and rationally restricted FDIC-insured banks from risky activities, including investment banking. Over the years, the banking industry persuaded regulators and then Congress to eliminate this separation with the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act. Less than a decade later, reckless Wall Street activity led to the crash from which the nation still struggles to recover. Kaptur and Jones have long been proponents of restoring Glass-Steagall protections to the banking system. The Return to Prudent Banking Act was reintroduced in February of this year and has the bipartisan support of 50 cosponsors. Support for the proposal was also in the Democratic and Republican party platforms. Learn more about the bill’s history and introduction here. ###
05.27.2017	Cleveland -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today released the following statement after news Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski had passed away:"Words cannot fully express to the family and friends of Dr. Zbigniew K. Brzezinski the deepest sympathy and abiding gratitude for his life that I extend to them, on behalf of the people of our state. America and our world have lost an extraordinary visionary, strategic thinker and accomplished diplomat. There is no doubt in my mind that our nation and liberty's cause have profoundly benefited for over half a century by his erudite, clear-headed and incisive counsel to our Presidents, Members of Congress, including myself, diplomatic colleagues and decision-makers across our world."Dr. Brzezinski moved history toward liberty. Countless citizens across many nations oriented their world view through his perspectives. His achievements literally extended the hope of freedom and its institutions to people in regions heretofore subjugated. His persistence and hard-won accomplishments shook the tectonic plates of world politics."He advised every modern President including John Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama. As National Security Advisor to President Carter, the astounding breakthrough for peace in the Middle East occurred with the signing of the Camp David Israeli-Egypt Peace Accord in 1979.“Further, he drove normalization of relations with China, the SALT II Arms Limitation Agreement, and victory in the Cold War over the Soviet Union. His clear-headedness on countering Soviet aggression grew out of his piercing knowledge of what had occurred under Communism in his beloved homeland of Poland. This provided him a realistic orientation toward defeating Communism as solidarity demonstrations in Poland and the eventual the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 ushered in an era of hope for millions that freedom could flourish.“He played an integral role in the eventual expansion of NATO to protect formerly captive nations of Poland, the Czech and Slovak Republics, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Hungary and others. Though judicious in using force, he fully understood its necessity."Truly an extraordinary diplomat, strategic advisor, and accomplished scholar, he never stopped researching nor teaching‎. His classroom extended to the entire globe. May the angels carry his soul to a peaceful place where freedom reigns eternal. Words from the national anthems of America and Poland seem especially fitting -- let his brilliant spirit 'catch the gleam of the morning's first beam' -- 'Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła, póki my żyjemy.'" ###
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today introduced the Balancing Trade Act of 2017, a bill to address our ongoing trade deficits and put our workers first. Kaptur was joined by original cosponsors Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-08) and Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03). “Trade deficits translate into lost jobs and lower wages for our workers, like our steel workers that have been battered in Lorain, Ohio. We must stop these trade practices that snuff out our jobs and hurt our communities,” said Kaptur. “This bill requires an actual U.S. policy that takes our trade deficit seriously. I urge President Trump to support this measure as a reasonable step forward. Let us seek trade solutions that lift up workers on all sides of our border.” Watch Kaptur speak on the House floor regarding the trade deficit, jobs and the Balancing Trade Act here. Background: Since the mid-1970s the U.S. has amassed trillions in cumulative trade deficits. Economists estimate every $1 billion increase in the U.S. trade deficit translates into a loss of 5,000 jobs. The Balancing Trade Act would require the President to address our trade deficit by adjusting our policies with those countries that have a large and continuous trade imbalance with America. Specifically, the Administration would be directed to create a concrete plan to address a deficit with any country with which we have a deficit of $10 billion or more for three consecutive years. If the United States has a persistent trade imbalance with a nation, a new trade relationship must be negotiated to end this perpetual imbalance. Read the bill here: Balancing Trade Act 115th.pdf ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), released the following statement upon the release of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of the American Health Care Act, also known as TrumpCare: “The first rule of medicine is ‘do no harm’, well the jury is in, and this nonpartisan analysis confirms our worst fears regarding the House approved TrumpCare bill. It rips away health care from 23 million Americans so the millionaires and billionaires can get a tax cut. “In their zeal to repeal the Affordable Care Act, President Trump and this Republican Congress seem to be saddling the American people with meager coverage and higher costs. They ignore the very real health concerns of the American people. This proposal is simply anti-life. It harms women dealing with a complicated pregnancy, it short changes the mentally ill and it makes seniors pay more for medicine. “Americans know there is common ground on health, whether it is mental health, fighting the opioid crisis or addressing rising premiums. TrumpCare ignores these concerns and the CBO analysis is clear a reminder that Congress should be looking to find a bipartisan consensus to improve the Affordable Care Act and fix any shortcomings. We must fight hard to maintain the progress we have made for the American people, not ‘deep-six’ it. “In Ohio alone, there are nearly one million people that have insurance today thanks to the Affordable Care Act. The President and House Republicans owe them an explanation. Why are they ripping away their insurance, undermining the covenant of Medicare and gutting consumer protections such as covering preexisting conditions?”
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today testified at a public hearing held by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding its investigation of steel imports and illegal dumping of steel which has devastated steel-making communities such as Lorain, OH in the district she represents with job loss and uncertainty. Kaptur was the only Member of Congress to testify at the hearing. See the following key excerpts from Kaptur testimony (watch here at 16:12 mark): “Lorain is a town that once employed 12,000 hard working men and women in the steel industry. Despite millions of dollars invested in Lorain steel modernization by the industry with wage, health, and pension benefit sacrifices by workers, hundreds more of the remaining steel jobs have been disappearing in the last two years. “It feels as though the life of a vibrant community is being drained out. As imports flood into our marketplace, even coming through import portals like the Port of Cleveland, we cannot slow walk to a national response that cedes the future, to a rigged predatory set of practices by other nations that win market share by violating the rules. “Through no fault of their own, workers lose their livelihoods to unfettered dumping on our market. The steady drip of victims lay across our communities drowned by steel from South Korea, China, Russia, India and Vietnam. “U.S. workers now can produce a ton of finished steel in under one man-hour, a pace that makes their operations the most efficient in the world. So, if that is true, why has America’s steel been battered by the continued job washout? “According to a 2016 report from Duke University, China alone produces 2300 million metric tons of steel, despite the fact only 1500 million metric tons are necessary to meet global demand. Are the rest of the world steel producing nations to be buried under heaps of Chinese dumped steel by an economy that is state-run? The U.S. Trade Representative’s office said in 2015 that China’s capacity alone exceeded the combined capacity of the U.S., the EU, Japan, and Russia. Additionally, tubular steel imports, the same type of steel made in Lorain, rose by 86 percent from 2016 to 2017. So there seems to be demand. “According to Section 232, the Department of Commerce has 270 days to complete an investigation. I urge this Administration to expedite this artificial schedule and work as quickly as possible. I can guarantee you, the lives of Americans are at risk and Ohio steel workers and businesses simply do not have that long.” Secretary Wilbur Ross responded to Kaptur stating that the investigation and report would be finished by June. Watch here, Kaptur speaks at 16:12 mark The Commerce Department initiated an investigation to determine the effects on the national security of imports of steel. This investigation has been initiated under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended. Additionally, Kaptur urged the Commerce Department to execute on the following: Stop foreign dumping of steel on our market, beginning with tubular piping; Preserve modernized capacity so our nation can maintain our strategic industrial and defense bases; Develop bridge financing using the full Executive power of the Administration to secure modernized US steel production capacity, economic development and trade adjustment assistance to communities and workers harmed by dumping, and to neutralize the negative impact of the VAT tax; Prescribe immediate retaliatory means to halt circumvention by China, South Korea, Russia, India, Vietnam and any state-directed economy that continues to harm the US. ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s budget proposal: “The more we see of President Trump’s budget the worse it gets. From zeroing out programs that protect our Great Lakes to slashing health care to undermining Social Security, the President’s team seems intent on cutting the budget on the backs of working people in our Nation’s heartland. Our people depend on affordable housing, nutrition assistance and after-school programs to give them a leg up, yet the President’s budget seems intent on pulling up the ladder. “We’ve seen this supply side economic shell game before, and it ends with a massive tax cut for the wealthiest Americans while leaving behind those living paycheck to paycheck. “The Trump budget cuts Meals on Wheels as if food for deserving seniors is a luxury. It slashes Great Lakes clean up as though clean water is more than Americans deserve. I would encourage every family in Ohio with an elderly parent, an indebted graduate or a trusting toddler to look at this budget and decide if it matches the promises they heard or whether this shortsighted budget will really ‘make us great again.’ “Additionally, this budget moves us backward on renewable energy and energy efficiency. As the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, I will work in a bipartisan way to ensure that we find consensus to hold the line on these critical investments in this growth industry to create good jobs in Ohio and reduce pollution.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statements today after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency accepted the determinations of the status of the open waters of Lake Erie made by both the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and Michigan Department of Natural Resources. While Michigan determined the open waters of Lake Erie to be impaired, Ohio declined to make the same assessment. Notably, the U.S. EPA accepted both assessments even though they disagreed on the status of Lake Erie. “This is not sensible. There is no imaginary line in the middle of Lake Erie where one side of the lake faces challenges that don’t impact the other side. This is a shared challenge that the entire region faces. This decision by the Trump era U.S. EPA leaves our Great Lakes in peril and risks the health of millions of Americans. Eleven million people depend on Lake Erie for their drinking water and this contradictory action fails to address the real danger they face from the presence of toxic algal blooms,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Clean drinking water is a fundamental right for every American. There is no line of separation in Lake Erie, and this decision endangers water quality for people in Michigan, Ohio and throughout the Great Lakes region,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Failure to recognize these waters as impaired puts public health, the Great Lakes and our $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry at risk. The administration must take a clear and proactive stance so we can confront this challenge and devise a plan to address this threat to public health and the environment.” In November, Dingell and Kaptur teamed up to send a letter to the EPA urging them to disregard Ohio’s determination and list the waters as officially impaired. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today issued the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s notice to Congress that he intends to renegotiate NAFTA: “This is when the rubber meets the road, Mr. President. You made a promise to workers in Ohio and across our great Nation. I intend to fight every day to ensure you live up to that promise. “When NAFTA was first negotiated, as with the failed TPP, corporate influence far outweighed the concerns of workers and environmental and human rights advocates. Workers on both sides of the border have been battered by NAFTA: from the Mexican farmer, to the steelworker in Lorain, to the autoworker in Cleveland. Any new agreement must include a continental compact to ensure rising wages for working people, not padded corporate profits. “NAFTA has proven to be a failure in many aspects, especially considering nearly a million American manufacturing jobs were lost since NAFTA’s signing. John Charles Salak said that ‘Failure is divided into two classes -- those that thought and never did, and those who did and never thought.’ NAFTA is truly a failure of those who did and never thought. “Indeed, the jobs and trade issue has become so important to our nation that it became the tipping point for this past Presidential election in states such as Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana and Wisconsin. Across the industrial heartland working men and women have paid the greatest price of trade deficits with outsourced jobs, lowered incomes -- Northern Ohio has experienced a loss of $7,000 in annual average salaries -- and fewer economic opportunities. Renegotiating NAFTA is an opportunity to rectify their struggles. “The question remains whether President Trump will follow through as he promised them.” Kaptur welcomed the movement to renegotiate NAFTA and emphasized support for the inclusion of several points: Rebalance NAFTA trade account by setting specific goals and means to rebalance the U.S. - NAFTA trade account by 2025. Negotiate robust continental environmental and phytosanitary standards. ‎Negotiate high labor standards and provisions to eliminate labor trafficking including penalty provisions on the host nation. It must not overtly favor corporations. Now, corporations can abuse tribunals, such as the investor-state dispute settlement tribunals, to ensure favorable treatment. Agricultural readjustment‎ for Mexico's dispossessed millions of farmers and negotiate provisions to allow the ability to regain property in their country. NAFTA's major disruption of Mexico's agricultural‎ sector has resulted in millions of farmers without land or work. Additionally, Kaptur joined senior House Democrats to discuss the negotiations and how they intend to hold the Administration accountable and fight for working people as the U.S. heads toward serious negotiations. Watch that press conference here (Kaptur at 16:59 mark). Kaptur has long fought against NAFTA and even challenged then-President Bill Clinton in 1996 at a rally in Toledo. Watch that video here. ###
05.17.2017	Below is a statement attributable to Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) regarding the appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special counsel. “The appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller is an overdue but constructive first step in ensuring a proper investigation of Trump Administration ties to Russia and Russian interests occurs within the Department of Justice. "Though Mr. Mueller is well respected, ultimately our nation needs an independent commission that is free from politics and takes the Trump Administration out of the equation. This Administration has proved time and time again they cannot give straight answers to the American people. "The Department of Justice should turn over a new leaf. This includes assisting Congressional Committees as they gather information and specifically, the Department should immediately send documents Committees have been requesting since February pertaining to former National Security Advisor General Michael Flynn's contacts with Russia." “The American people are owed the whole truth on how Russia’s covert operatives have been trying to damage the integrity of our election process and how deeply Russian influence reaches into this Administration.”
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) joined Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), Brian K. Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and 70 House members to send a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and urge him to maintain funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the Trump Administration’s FY2018 Budget. According to press reports, President Donald Trump’s FY18 budget will propose drastic cuts to ONDCP, including completely eliminating the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Programs. The Members wrote: “For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families.” With the deadly opioid epidemic tearing apart families and communities nationwide, the need for a coordinated, effective and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. Since its creation in 1988, ONDCP has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. Congress created the HIDTA program in 1988 to promote coordination between federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug-trafficking regions of the United States. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The DFC program reduces drug use through building a multi-sector coalition where schools, parents, health care, and youth-serving organizations work together to plan and implement a comprehensive set of evidence-based programs tailored to a community’s unique needs. More than 600 communities nationwide currently have Drug-Free Community coalitions. The program has consistently demonstrated reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. See below to read the letter or click here: 170516O NDCP Letter.pdf. May 16, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street Northwest Washington, District of Columbia 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: We are writing to express our concern about reported severe reductions to the Office of the National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the fiscal 2018 budget that would put in jeopardy programs that provide needed assistance to state and local law enforcement and community coalitions to fight the growing opioid epidemic. As you know, ONDCP has played a critical role in coordinating the nation’s drug control efforts. Since 1988 this office has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. The need for a coordinated, effective, and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. This epidemic is being felt in communities throughout the United States and the effects have been devastating. The High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, overseen by ONDCP, has been a critical component of the National Drug Control Strategy. This program aids in the coordination of federal, state, and local drug task forces to disrupt or dismantle drug trafficking organizations. It also engages and provides support to state and federal prosecutors to convict individuals associated with drug trafficking organizations. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The office’s Drug Free Communities (DFC) Program has been similarly effective. Its approach to addressing local problems with community-driven solutions has consistently shown reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. The program is designed with strict accountability provisions to ensure the highest levels of local support in solving the substance abuse crisis each community faces. By law, there is a cap on the amount of money that can be spent on administrative and overhead expenses, which ensures that the maximum amount of funding goes to DFC coalitions that have the power to reduce youth substance use in their own communities. Coalitions are required to be in existence and fully functioning for a minimum of six months before they are eligible to apply, and they must have baseline data to show that they have full knowledge of local drug issues, as well as matching federal funding with dollar-for-dollar local funds. For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families. We respectfully request clarification on the Administration’s intended actions to ensure the continuity of HIDTA and DFC and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, and Co-chair of Congress’ Ukraine, Hungary and Poland Caucuses, today issued the following statement: “I have several questions for President Donald Trump to which the American people, and I, as a Member of Congress, do not know the answers. I am deeply concerned about his ‎decision to conduct the affairs of our nation in such a compromising manner. Why would a President share sensitive information with Russian principles close to Vladimir Putin? Though the President's outrageous behavior sucked up the airwaves, papering over his simultaneous firing of FBI Director Comey, the American people deserve a President who does not behave cavalierly and carelessly on liberty's watch. “Additionally, why were no U.S. journalists allowed into the meeting? To my knowledge, no U.S. President has received officials from Russia in the Oval Office and then excluded the American press while replacing them with Russian state media operatives. “It is my hope that this Congress, as guardians of the Constitution, will stand up for the American people and demand answers and accountability of this President.” ###
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) a senior Member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and Co-Chair of the Congress’ Ukraine, Hungary and Poland Caucuses issued the following statement, on the firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The firing of Director Comey is a very troubling, in fact, alarming action. It casts a deep shadow on the Trump Administration’s willingness to continue aggressively pursuing the truth about Russia’s meddling in our internal elections and affairs, attempting to disrupt our international alliances, and building a web of connectivity to Trump confidantes. “With the President and many in his inner circle demonstrating significant ties to foreign interests, especially Russia and China, the American people are owed an impartial, exhaustive, and honest investigation into whether Russia or other predators have an undue influence over this Administration. “If for example, General Flynn who sought immunity from prosecution is now revealing Russian connections to President Trump and Trump Administration associates, then the truth will out. No President, no American, is above the law. “The Trump Administration has proven to be quite resistant in the search for the truth about Russia. Firing the FBI Director raises consequential questions about the integrity of the process going forward and underscores the need to establish and fully empower an outside, independent commission to investigate.” ###
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) introduced legislation Tuesday to protect the pensions of up to 10 million workers and retirees. The Keep Our Pension Promises Act would reverse a provision passed in 2014 that could result in deep pension cuts for millions of retirees and workers in multi-employer pension plans. “We have got to send a very loud and clear message to the Republican leadership in Congress and the president of the United States. When a promise is made to the working people of this country with respect to their pensions and retiree health benefits, that promise cannot be broken,” Sanders said. “If Congress could bailout Wall Street and foreign banks throughout the world, we certainly can protect the pension benefits of American workers.” “Pensions are deferred income and retirees are owed these earned benefits. My bill with Senator Sanders ensures that we do right by our people," Kaptur said. "I thank the cosponsors of the Keep Our Pension Promises Act in the House and Senate and I urge the rest of my colleagues to come to the table and support this bill. I will fight every day to defend retirees. No matter where retirees draw their retirement, whether it is a pension, a 401k or Social Security, Americans deserve financial stability and security in their older years." In December 2014, Congress approved and the president signed a spending bill that included provisions that allow for dramatic cuts to financially troubled multi-employer pensions. Under this provision, the pension benefits of retirees could be cut by 30 percent or more. Before the law was changed, it was illegal for an employer to cut the pension benefits retirees have earned. The new legislation establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multi-employer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. The bill is co-sponsored in the Senate by Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.). Sanders, Baldwin and Franken announced the legislation at a news conference where they were joined by representatives of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the National United Committee to Protect Pensions and the Pension Rights Center. “It’s time for Washington to respect the hard work of American workers and make sure that the promises made to them are kept,” Baldwin said. “A secure retirement is a central pillar of economic security for our working class. The Keep Our Pensions Promise Act ends a loophole and tax break for the wealthy so we can protect the retirement security families have worked for, planned for and depend on.” Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) added his support for the bill. “I am proud to work with Congresswoman Kaptur and Senator Sanders to introduce the Keep Our Pensions Promises Act, which provides a common sense solution to our multiemployer insurance system. It would strengthen our country’s pension plans and provide additional funding to the PBGC so that no man or woman needs to worry about whether or not they are going to receive their rightfully owed pension. Every day these workers went to work with the understanding that their future was secure with the benefits they were promised. This bill makes sure that the United States Government keeps that promise,” said Ryan. Reps. Kaptur, Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.), Rick Nolan (D-Minn.), John Yarmouth (D-Ky.) and Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) held events in their districts today in support of the plan. The bill has 22 original House cosponsors. The International Brotherhood of Boilermakers and the International Association of Machinists wrote a letter to House Members in support of the bill today. Read those letters here: IBB KOPPA House 050917.PDF IAM Keep Our Pension Promise House Letter 592017tcs.pdf For a one-pager on the bill click here: Keep our Pension Promises one pager 5.2.17.pdf
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), dean of the Ohio Congressional Delegation and senior-most woman in the House, today issued the following statement in advance of the expected vote on the American Health Care Act, also known as TrumpCare. “It is shameful that Republican leaders in Congress are ramming through this bill before the American people, or Congress, can even read it. “So intent to fulfill a campaign ruse and reward insurance companies again, House Republicans are lurching ahead without even waiting for the nonpartisan experts at the Congressional Budget Office to tell us the real costs of the bill. “This legislation will impact every single person in this country and without this vital analysis, it is uncertain how this proposal would impact Ohio, where we have successfully expanded coverage to 900,000 individuals. “TrumpCare part two is the same bill it was before, a giant tax cut for the rich at the expense of 24 million people who would lose their insurance. Except for this time, they are gutting critical consumer protections like the ban on dropping coverage because of pre-existing conditions. The American people need a helping hand and this bill is a slap in the face.” ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today joined 30 Members of the House of Representatives in writing a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, urging the Administration to address the United States-Russia bilateral trade relationship. Despite the President’s focus on trade, the Administration has not addressed Russia’s predatory and protectionist policies that put American workers, farmers, and businesses at an unfair disadvantage. “While trade enforcement issues continue to be raised by this administration, to-date there has not been sufficient attention to the U.S.-Russia bilateral trade relationship. In a March 1st address to the Commerce Department, you pledged to implement policies that ‘put American workers first.’ We support this goal,” wrote the Members. “That is why we urge immediate action to combat ongoing Russian practices that cost American jobs, violate international trade rules, and break commitments Russia made when it joined the World Trade Organization.” “Today, the Russian Federation uses a range of illegal, unfair, and often opaque, trade and industrial policies that undermine America’s manufacturers and agricultural producers with extensive barriers to the Russian market,” continued the Members. “In the manufacturing sector, Russia continues to use massive subsidies to sustain failing industries, to undercut American exports with state-driven import substitution tactics, and uses Russian state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to promote Russian suppliers over American competitors.” The full letter is available here: Russia-Trade-Violations-Letter-Wilbur-Ross-5-2-17.pdf The letter comes after Kaptur, Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) wrote a letter to Secretary Ross urging the Secretary to visit Lorain, Ohio and act immediately to help the steelworkers there who are suffering from an unfair global market. ###
05.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee, today issued the following statement: “Though imperfect, this compromise funding bill to fund the remainder of this fiscal year comes at a welcome time. Congress can now send a signal of stability and security to the American people. With this agreement, we will finally and fully fund federal agencies for the remainder of the year and avert another manufactured funding crisis. “For Ohio, the agreement brings welcome news in the form of an additional $600 million for fighting the opioid epidemic and critical funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) at the benchmark $300 million level. Despite the Administration’s proposal to zero out funding for GLRI next year, this agreement assures that funding for 2017 is forthcoming and provides for the continuation of our important work to improve water quality in the Great Lakes. “As Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, I am well aware we have more work to do, but this spending bill continues our commitment to nuclear nonproliferation, investing in cutting edge science as well as energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, for which this bill allocates $2.1 billion.” For more on the FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act click here. ###
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), with Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Congresswomen Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Joyce Beatty (OH-3), introduced The Breaking Addiction Act of 2017. As Ohio continues to grapple with a deadly heroin/opioid epidemic, this legislation breaks down barriers to treatment and increases the number of beds available for patients suffering from substance use disorder. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people. “Too many Ohioans in the 11th Congressional District suffer from substance abuse, and they are not alone. Our state and nation are in the middle of a deadly epidemic that, if it continues, will have devastating effects on our future,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “While many seek care, they are turned away because communities cannot meet the demand for treatment. By getting rid of the antiquated IMD exclusion, The Breaking Addiction Act not only increases access to treatment, but gives states the flexibility and resources they need to save lives.” “Each day I turn on the news and learn about another life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women have access to the care that is desperately needed, and that means taking a hard look at our current treatment structure. That is why I am proud to join Congresswoman Fudge in introducing The Breaking Addiction Act, which addresses the growing drug crisis and increases access to addiction treatment. Not another day should go by that a person can’t find help due to this outdated system. As Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I will continue to urge my congressional colleagues to move this legislation forward and help combat this ongoing epidemic,” said Congressman Ryan. “Families and communities devastated by the tragedy of opioid addiction need relief. Empty promises and shell game budget maneuvers will not stem the tide of suffering and heartache that so many families endure as a result of the opioid crisis in America. I urge Congress to pass this bill because drug addiction is a crippling disease and it deserves the same level of treatment and care as other illnesses,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Every day, on average, nearly 10 Ohioans die from an accidental opioid overdose. In fact, the State of Ohio has the unfortunate distinction of having the most opioid-related overdoses than any other state in the nation. These startling statistics are proof positive that we need to do more to help Ohioans—and Americans across the country—struggling with addiction get the treatment they need. The Breaking Addiction Act will do precisely that. I thank Congresswoman Fudge for introducing this important piece of legislation, and will work with her and the entire Ohio Democratic Congressional delegation to get this much-needed bill signed into law,” said Congresswoman Beatty. The Breaking Addiction Act was first introduced by Reps. Fudge and Ryan in 2014 directing the Secretary of HHS to accept state IMD exclusion waiver applications. The 2017 version enhances the previous legislation by getting rid of the IMD exclusion completely to reduce red tape and allow states, like Ohio, to address the growing drug epidemic faster. To read The Breaking Addiction Act of 2017, please see the attached text. ### 2017_04_28 Breaking Addiction Act FINAL.pdf
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a co-chair of the Congressional Hungarian Caucus released the following statement after news Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán recently passed legislation that could shut down the Central European University, which was created after the fall of communism and promotes the ideal of an open society. Next month, the Hungarian Parliament will vote on a bill that would impose greater scrutiny on nonprofit organizations that receive foreign financing. “I respectfully urge President Trump to express to President Viktor Orbán of Hungary to stop the closing of the Hungarian Central European University and withdraw the law that seeks to stigmatize civic organizations. Hungary at its best stands for learning and a deep concern about culture, hard work, and a stubborn commitment to independence for all. The proposed legislation would weaken voluntary associations, higher education, and a free press, and are not in this tradition. “My district and my life have been influenced deeply by the values, ethics, and influences of people of Hungarian ancestry. Twice in the last century, Hungarian resistance against communist and fascist oppression inspired the world – the Nazis and the Soviets sought to suppress forever the voice of citizens in a free society. Both used division, scapegoating and suspicion to divide Hungarians. These forces of tyranny were driven out by brave Hungarians, together with the freedom-loving people of the United States and our allies. “Now, inspired and supported by the Russian oligarchy of Vladimir Putin, we are seeing anti-democratic interference being perpetrated in countries all over the world. Hungarians are being agitated to fear Brussels. The campaign of fear and falsehoods emanates from Moscow. The free world need not stand by and let this happen. Freedom of expression, vigorous exercise of a free press, and higher education are hallmarks of that liberty, not subjection.” ###
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, after a week of celebration and advocacy of science, our environment and conservation efforts, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) Act, a bill that would combat unemployment and preserve the environment by putting unemployed and underemployed citizens to work on critical environmental projects. “After Earth Day, the March for Science and now Arbor Day on Friday – there is no better time to rededicate ourselves to creating jobs, investing in the American worker and protecting our nation’s environmental treasures,” Kaptur said. “This is not some pie in the sky economic theory. These are public investments proven to stimulate job growth and impart skills in the workforce. If the Administration is serious about creating jobs, this bill will put people to work now.” “Through federal efforts such as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and other conservation and restoration investments, Americans are connecting the dots between clean water, clean land, clean air and thriving regional economies,” Kaptur continued. About the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps Act: The CCC Act was inspired by a successful economic initiative called the Civilian Conservation Corps that was first established by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1933 as part of the New Deal. The initiative provided more than three million young men with jobs and skills training and inspired a widespread appreciation of the natural environment in American culture. No less than 80 percent of the CCC Act’s funds will be utilized for job creation and the Act will give preference to unemployed veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces. Projects would include reforestation; forest fire control; flood and soil erosion prevention; eradication of invasive species and flora disease; blight removal of dead plant material and abandoned structures; construction and maintenance of paths, trails and fire lanes; and any other environmental work deemed necessary. Work will be conducted on Federal and State land but may be extended to private lands for public benefit, for example in the prevention of forest fires. This legislation was introduced with 11 original co-sponsors: Reps. Grijalva (AZ-03), Pocan (WI-02), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Norton (DC-AL), Schakowsky (IL-09), Hastings (FL-20), Evans (PA-02), Conyers (MI-13), Perlmutter (CO-07) and McNerney (CA-09). ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today demanded answers from the Army Corps of Engineers about the unexpected delay in the release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam study during a bipartisan, bicameral Great Lakes Task Force hearing. The Brandon Road Lock and Dam study will provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes. “Today’s hearing merely confirmed what we had all assumed: the decision to delay this report was entirely political and not based on any real desire to protect the Great Lakes,” said Kaptur. “To call on the Corps to seek further input from the ‘navigation community’ is illogical, given that those groups signed a 2015 letter in support of this study. They should not receive preferential treatment over millions of people who rely on the Great Lakes. “The Administration should expect to keep hearing from Great Lakes legislators and the people of Ohio on this issue. They can’t bury their heads in the sand moving forward to prevent the Asian carp’s advance into the Great Lakes – it is too important to our region,” Kaptur continued. The White House Advisor to U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis, Brad Beyer, reported that the delay of the report came at the behest of the Administration who instructed the Corps to seek further coordination and guidance from the navigation community. When asked about the timeline for release, Beyer stated it was contingent on Senate confirmation of Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works. Today’s action comes after Kaptur led a bipartisan letter to the Trump Administration demanding the release of the Brandon Road Study. Asian carp represent a serious economic and environmental threat to the Great Lakes and this report is a critical next step in finding and implementing a solution. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Following reports that the Trump Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – which serves Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio – as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget, U.S. Senator Dick Durbin and U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) led a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers from the Great Lakes region in calling for the Region 5 office to remain intact and fully supported. In a bicameral letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, the members stressed the importance of the Great Lakes, which provide 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and are a source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. “We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5,” the members wrote. Along with Durbin, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Al Franken (D-MN), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) is leading the House coalition, along with Mike Quigley (D-IL), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Bill Foster (D-IL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Andre Carson (D-IN), John Conyers Jr. (D-MI), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Danny Davis (D-IL), and Ron Kind (D-WI). Full text of the letter is here and below: Kaptur, Durbin letter on EPA Region 5 04.25.2017.pdf April 25, 2017 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5. EPA’s Chicago office regularly works closely with state and local governments to effectively address the unique challenges and needs of the region, including protecting 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and a significant portion of the Mississippi River watershed from invasive species, harmful algal blooms, and industrial pollution—preserving the source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. Region 5 experts were among the first scientists to alert officials to the elevated lead levels in Flint, Michigan’s drinking water. Following the 2014 drinking water ban in Toledo, Ohio due to microcystin contamination from harmful algal blooms, Region 5 assisted Ohio and Michigan in upgrading drinking water treatment facilities to protect citizens in the region. Additionally, as manager of the Great Lakes National Program Office, the EPA Region 5 Administrator plays a key role in ensuring the U.S. meets its international commitments under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. The Office also works with Canada to ensure that the Great Lakes continue to support a $5 trillion economy with more than 51 million jobs. The day-to-day responsibilities of carrying out the Agreement and our promises to Canada would be jeopardized if EPA Region 5 was eliminated. Region 5 is also responsible for more Superfund sites than any other region and EPA Region 5 experts play a vital role in legacy waste clean-up and environmental justice initiatives. You witnessed this firsthand when you toured the USS Lead site in East Chicago, Indiana. EPA Region 5 also maintains staff in each state so that it can quickly respond to chemical spills and other emergencies, like last week’s hexavalent chromium spill at a U.S. Steel Corporation site in Indiana and the 2010 Enbridge oil spill in the Kalamazoo River. Without EPA Region 5’s presence in the area, timely action would have been significantly less likely and these spills could have done more damage to the environment and surrounding communities. While shutting down EPA’s Region 5 Chicago office would make it more difficult and less efficient for the federal government to work in partnership with state and local communities in our region, it is unclear that it would reduce costs to EPA as a whole. Region 5 does not duplicate enforcement or regulatory actions, rather Region 5 allows the EPA to better coordinate federal efforts with state and local governments. In fact, state environmental agencies often rely on EPA Region 5 experts for technical assistance and financial support. More than half of EPA’s budget is sent directly to states to aid in clean-up and other environmental programs. Closing EPA’s Region 5 office would have a devastating effect on those that call Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio home. Therefore, we urge you to protect the environmental health and well-being of our states by keeping Region 5 intact and fully supporting its critical mission. Sincerely, -30- Contact: Emily Hampsten (Durbin)Emily_Hampsten@durbin.senate.gov 202-228-5643 Joshua Stewart (Kaptur)Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov 202-225-4146
04.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a member of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after media reported on the potential closure of the regional Environmental Protection Agency office in Chicago: “The media reports of the planned closing of EPA’s Region 5 office in Chicago are terribly alarming, if not predictable from this Administration. It is not even clear this move would save money. The President has already proposed cutting the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative which is a lifeline for our Great Lakes and this action would remove the deep expertise and region-specific knowledge to deal with Ohio’s unique environmental and health issues.” ###
04.18.2017	TOLEDO, OH - U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) will travel to Poland, Germany and Italy this week with a bipartisan defense and foreign policy Congressional delegation led by Representative Paul Cook (R-CA), Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Armed Services, who also serves on the House Foreign Affairs, and Natural Resources Committees. The delegation will meet with European officials to discuss European Union cohesion, European security, territorial integrity, and financial and economic stability. While in Europe, Kaptur and delegation members will stress the importance of the NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) Alliance and bilateral relationships with Poland, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, seeking ways to strengthen those relationships. Kaptur explained, “Particularly now with the Executive Branch making contradictory statements about U.S. resolve toward NATO, it is incumbent the U.S. not leave any doubt in the minds of our friends, or foes, as to our nation’s firm commitment to defending liberty and upholding our historic alliance with Europe.” Further, the delegation will visit U.S. Department of Defense equities, engaging with military leaders and meet the men and women serving our nation to discuss challenges they face and how Congress can better support service members and families. Kaptur noted, “As a Member of the Defense and Energy & Water Appropriations Subcommittees, my work involves making decisions about funding all of the Departments of Defense and Energy activities and engagements at home and abroad. Europe’s energy dependence on Russia presents a significant challenge to that continent’s stability.” Kaptur, the author of legislation that authorized construction of the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. said that while in Poland the delegation will “witness firsthand the U.S. role in leading NATO’s Poland battlegroup as part of the Alliance’s enhanced Forward Presence initiative.” The group will be present even as the first rotation of U.S. military personnel begins their NATO deployment. In addition to ongoing troop rotation and basing in Poland, energy infrastructure development and national security issues are on the agenda. Kaptur, who is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy & Water and also co-chairs the Congressional Ukraine, Poland and Hungary Caucuses, explained that the bipartisan delegation seeks to “reassure our closest Allies in liberty and defense that America will keep its NATO commitments. Our mutual commitment to the defense of liberty is enduring, and our nation recognizes the sacrifices they, too, have been making in the war on terrorism.” The focus in Germany will be the U.S. military relationship with NATO, including engagements with leadership and soldiers at the U.S. 7th Army Training Command Joint Multinational Simulation Center in Grafenwoehr. In Italy, the delegation will meet with defense, economic, and foreign ministry officials as well as representatives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Said Kaptur, “Through daily delegation notes and updates through social media, we hope our journey will help enlighten a new generation as to why these alliances are critical to the preservation of liberty, and what it took to achieve them.” The Congresswoman will return home to Ohio on Saturday, April 22. Delegation leader Congressman Paul Cook, whose military career spanned twenty-six years, was an infantry officer who served with distinction in the United States Marine Corps and is a veteran of the Vietnam War. His actions in combat earned him a number of honors, including two Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star Medal with a “V” for valor. He retired from the Marine Corps in 1992 as a Colonel. Other members of the delegation include Ranking Members and Vice Chairmen on U.S. House Subcommittees on the Western Hemisphere and National Security, Members and Staff serving on the Foreign Affairs and Armed Services Committees, as well as officials in the U.S. Army. To continue explaining the critical issues facing Europe and America’s role at home and abroad, Kaptur announced, “In May, I have invited award winning author and extraordinary historian, Dr. Timothy Snyder of Yale University, to visit both Toledo and Cleveland to discuss his award winning new Book: On Tyranny: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth Century. Dr. Snyder will be in Cleveland on May 11th and in Toledo on May 12th and will discuss what is at stake with our historic Allies and alliances. Dr. Snyder’s prior books Bloodlands and Black Earth were also best selling ‎works revealing the scope and horror of World War II and how the US adapted its world relationships to meet the realities of modern threats to liberty.” Kaptur concluded, “Our 21st Century global challenges require thoughtful discourse and strong alliances. Our discussions in the coming week will demonstrate America’s resolve as a leader in worldwide efforts to ensure liberty.” ### Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones: 216-767-5933
04.13.2017	TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today called on President Trump to uphold his campaign promise to label China as a currency manipulator and address the impact that the trade deficit has had on American workers. Throughout his campaign and his first months in office, President Trump pledged to the American people that he would correct our China trade policy and declared that this was essential to delivering on two other promises—to reduce our massive trade deficit and to ‘bring back’ American manufacturing jobs. However, in an interview yesterday, President Trump publicly reneged on his promise to label China as a currency manipulator. “The President continues to reverse his get-tough-on-China trade talk at the expense of America's workers,” said Kaptur. “Lorain Ohio’s steelworkers have become just the latest casualties to suffer at the hands of China’s manipulated currency and the dumping of steel on our shores. Ohio needs more than lip service on trade and jobs. The President promised action on China's unfair trade policies and he should keep that promise.” In March 2017, Kaptur along with Ohio U.S. Senators Brown and Portman invited Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to visit Lorain, Ohio to meet with steelworkers and steel companies to see the impact of unfair trade on Ohio’s manufacturing sector. On April 5, 2017, 90 Members of the House of Representatives, including Kaptur, signed a letter to President Trump demanding that he fix the failed policies on trade with China. The full letter is available here:House Democrats China Trade Letter to Trump 4.5.17.pdf ###
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Sander Levin (D-MI), today issued the following statement in response to reported comments by Secretary of State Tillerson on Ukraine: “We are deeply concerned with the reported question asked by Secretary of State Tillerson ‘Why should U.S. taxpayers be interested in Ukraine?’ It is abundantly clear that the U.S. has a major security interest in a free and democratic Ukraine, one not subject to Russian aggression. The statement by a State Department spokesman that the Secretary’s statement was a ‘rhetorical device’ only adds to the uncertainties about what the basic policies are of the current administration. The Secretary’s statement also seems contradictory to his earlier statements in support of sanctions against Russia. It is imperative that the United States stands shoulder to shoulder with the people of Ukraine, who have demonstrated time and again their shared values for sovereignty, human rights, and the rule of law.” CONTACT: Jacque Clark (Harris), 202-225-5311 Josh Stewart (Kaptur), 202-225-4146 Aaron Clark (Fitzpatrick), 202-225-4276 Emily Del Morone (Levin) 202-225-4961 ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “The use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime is the latest in a desperate and violent war that Assad is waging on his own people. Neither Congress nor the American people know the full extent of how this Trump Administration action was planned and executed. We do know the Assad regime in Syria consistently commits horrendous atrocities against its own people, but the U.S. bombing of a Syrian airbase unilaterally, undertaken outside a global coalition to remove the Assad regime, is a high-risk action that could cause terrorist retaliation against U.S. targets anywhere in the world. The Trump Administration’s advance notification to Russia of its intentions before the strike occurred, raises further questions about coordination with Russia, a government largely responsible for propping up the Assad regime. “There is no doubt that our troops are ready to complete any task that is before them, and the U.S. must fight tyranny and oppression, but Congress needs to have a say. We shouldn’t rush headstrong into conflict, and as a Nation, we must always weigh the consequences of such action. I urge President Trump to consult with Congress to seek authorization and consult with the American people before any further action in Syria.” ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week in a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, Members of Congress led by Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), urged the Trump Administration to fully fund the Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP). The SFMNP program provides funding to help seniors get access to fresh, locally produced fruits and vegetables. Cosigners in this effort are Reps. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Jim McGovern (MA-02). Key excerpts from the letter: “Specifically, we urge that you close the current shortfall in SFMNP in order to serve the growing requests among low to moderate-income seniors for nutritious, locally grown fruits and vegetables. This program not only directly addresses the serious national challenge of nutrient short senior diets but also contribute mightily to the economic growth for local farmers. “With far too many seniors still having to skip meals just to make ends meet, it is crucial for SFMNP to receive adequate funding to expand its reach to meet true demand. Rising Medicare costs and prescription drug prices are putting real economic pressure on America’s seniors.” Read the full letter:Kaptur Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program April 2017.pdf CONTACT: (Kaptur) Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov (Bishop) Jonathan.Black@mail.house.gov (Pingree) Andrew.Colvin@mail.house.gov (Moore) Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov (DeLauro) Ron.Boehmer@mail.house.gov (Lee) Emma.Lydon@mail.house.gov (Roybal-Allard) Benjamin.Soskin@mail.house.gov (Fudge) Lauren.Williams@mail.house.gov (McGovern) Abraham.White@mail.house.gov # # #
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today joined a group of 90 Members of the House of Representatives in writing to President Trump, demanding that he fix the failed policies on trade with China. Throughout his campaign and his first months in office, President Trump pledged to the American people that he would correct our China trade policy and declared that this was essential to delivering on two other promises—to reduce our massive trade deficit and to ‘bring back’ American manufacturing jobs. However, the President has yet to act on these critical issues. “Throughout your campaign, you promised a get-tough-on-China trade policy and pledged to declare China a currency manipulator on your first day in office. You reiterated that pledge ‘to protect American workers’ in your ‘Contract with the American Voter,’ stating that on your first day in office: ‘I will direct my Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator,’” wrote the Members. “However, on February 23, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin explicitly stated that the Administration was not ready to make any such declaration. The same day, you told a group of manufacturing Chief Executive Officers visiting the White House that you would take strong action to combat China’s ‘$500 billion’ trade deficit with the United States. In addition, on February 24, you stated that China was the ‘grand champion’ at manipulating its currency.” The Members also called out President Trump for not indicating his plans with respect to the United States-China Bilateral Investment Agreement (BIT). The BIT would replicate key aspects of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), two agreements that President Trump castigated as damaging to American workers and the economy. Further, the BIT would include the investor protections found in NAFTA and the TPP that make it easier to offshore American jobs, and it would give Chinese firms, including state-owned enterprises, broader rights to purchase U.S. firms, land, and other assets. The BIT would make current China trade issues significantly worse. The full letter is available here: House Democrats China Trade Letter to Trump 4.5.17.pdf ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) cosponsored the Social Security 2100 Act. This bill increases benefits and ensures Social Security is solvent for the next 75 years. "Social Security is a foundational program for older Americans and those with disabilities. Americans deserve dignity and security in retirement and we must keep that promise to every generation, including the 2 million Ohioans who receive Social Security benefits," said Kaptur. “Seniors haven’t received a decent COLA increase in years, but with common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can boost this earned benefit and ensure Social Security remains strong for decades to come.” Congressman John Larson (CT-01) is the lead sponsor of the House bill. Watch Kaptur speak on the House floor in defense of Social Security and Medicare here. What does the bill do? Social Security is not an entitlement; it is an earned benefit that retirees receive after years of contributing. Tax cut for over 10 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits Benefit bump beginning immediately for current and new beneficiaries Protection for low-income workers by raising the minimum benefit Long-term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting a better formula, which ensures the Social Security program keeps pace with costs. Have questions? Download Kaptur’s Social Security 2100 brochure here. ### WATCH: Kaptur defends Social Security and Medicare
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dave Reichert (D-WA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), David Joyce (R-OH), and Bobby Scott (D-VA) led a bipartisan letter urging President Trump not to eliminate investments in iconic bodies of water. The letter, signed by 31 other members, warned that the President should reconsider his budget proposal that would completely eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency’s Geographic Programs that provide cleanup funding for Puget Sound, the Great Lakes, Chesapeake Bay, and other major bodies of water. The members wrote in the letter sent today: “Collectively, the EPA’s Geographic Program funds have been used by state, local, and tribal governments to implement thousands of on-the-ground projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitats, enhance fish and shellfish populations, and combat invasive species. Although every region has shown significant improvement as the result of these investments, there is still a great deal of work to do.” “We know that you are strongly in favor of growing the economy, protecting clean water, and creating jobs. The federal funding provided through the Geographic Programs does just that,” the members added. Full text of the letter follows.4.4.17 Letter to Trump re EPA Geo Programs.pdf The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our strong and unified support for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Geographic Programs, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), Puget Sound, Chesapeake Bay Program, Long Island Sound, Gulf of Mexico, and others. The lakes, estuaries, and shorelines protected by these programs are truly national treasures. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Puget Sound and the Chesapeake Bay watersheds are the Nation’s two largest estuaries, encompassing more than 48 million acres of rivers, bays, beaches and shorelines that support some of the Nation’s most valuable fisheries. These iconic bodies of water are also crucial economic drivers that support millions of jobs and billions of dollars in economic impact across the country. In Washington State, the marine industry – which includes fishing fleets, ports, and seafood processors – generates $30 billion annually, and is directly tied to the health of the Puget Sound. Likewise, more than 1.5 million jobs and $62 billion in wages are directly tied to the Great Lakes. Collectively, the EPA’s Geographic Program funds have been used by state, local, and tribal governments to implement thousands of on-the-ground projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitats, enhance fish and shellfish populations, and combat invasive species. Although every region has shown significant improvement as the result of these investments, there is still a great deal of work to do. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. Similarly, in 2015 the Puget Sound experienced the largest toxic algae bloom ever recorded off the West Coast which closed shellfish and crab fisheries throughout the region. Likewise, the annual “dead zone” in the Chesapeake Bay, the result of algal blooms feeding off nutrient pollution, causes significant stress to the Bay’s ecosystem and strains the populations of commercial species such as the iconic blue crab. The economic impacts from these algal blooms reverberate throughout these regions. Grants from the EPA’s geographic programs have been critical to funding research and monitoring efforts to improve predictions of these blooms, but it is clear that much more work remains in order to protect the health of our citizens and our local economies. Similarly, in South Florida, the EPA’s geographic program funds have been critical to supporting efforts to monitor and reduce the impact of point- and nonpoint-source pollution on the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. These efforts are key to protecting indigenous populations of corals, shellfish, fish and wildlife, and recreational activities which are all critical economic drivers for the region. We know that you are strongly in favor of growing the economy, protecting clean water, and creating jobs. The federal funding provided through the Geographic Programs does just that. A peer-reviewed study of the Chesapeake cleanup plan demonstrated that the Chesapeake provides benefits of more than $107 billion annually to the region, which will grow by more than $22 billion annually once the cleanup plan is complete. Likewise, the GLRI has accomplished four times more clean-up and restoration work in the last six years than was undertaken over the previous 22 years. This progress has helped rejuvenate the hunting, fishing, and birding opportunities which support 217,000 tourism and recreation jobs throughout the region. Furthermore, in Washington State alone, every EPA dollar spent on Puget Sound recovery efforts has leveraged more than $24 in matching funds from other federal agencies and local partners, including the state, tribes, and non-profits. That’s an enormous return on investment. Given the sweeping economic impacts of the Geographic Programs, we ask that you continue to include robust support for these programs in your Fiscal Year 2018 budget request and beyond. The health of our communities and the strength of our economies depend on it. Sincerely, ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Equal Pay Day, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act. This legislation would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and ensure that women can hold employers accountable for what they earn and challenge pay discrimination. “Women in Ohio make 75 cents for every dollar a man makes, which is unacceptable. It is time we close the decades-old loopholes that prevent the U.S. from closing the gender pay gap once and for all,” said Kaptur. “President Trump said that regarding equal pay, ‘if they do the same job, they should get the same pay.’ Well, Mr. President, I couldn’t agree more. We must do all we can to lift up mothers, sisters, grandmothers and daughters in the workforce. Equal pay is good for every community, so let’s make it happen.” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) is the lead sponsor in the House of Representatives and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The Paycheck Fairness Act would close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices. The bill will end the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthen the available remedies for wronged employees. What is Equal Pay Day? Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still make only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. ###
03.31.2017	Toledo – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Executive Order on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “My hope is that President Trump’s Executive Order on NAFTA will address the urgency of stopping U.S. job outsourcing, especially in the manufacturing sector, and to keep the promises on the economy he made just a few months ago to the people of Ohio and the Great Lakes region. In fact, NAFTA is a cruel economic regime imposed on the people of three nations. Thus, I expect more than lip service from the Trump Administration on NAFTA. NAFTA is responsible for massive job outsourcing, and end runs around a democratic rule of law. President Trump carried Ohio largely on his promises to correct this massive job outsourcing and gigantic trade imbalance that has hammered Ohio's workers and businesses since NAFTA's passage. NAFTA was the first major trade agreement that locked down the "free trade" framework ‎that put American workers and communities at the back of the line. The NAFTA model required no reciprocity, no environmental standards, no fair labor standards, and frankly, no just relations between nations. NAFTA has delivered a cumulative trade deficit worldwide since 1993 of $48.5 billion, which translates into tens of thousands of real and continuing job losses ceded to unbalanced trade deals. “President Trump has repeatedly called NAFTA the worst trade deal ever. He has said: 'It used to be cars were made in Flint and you couldn’t drink the water in Mexico. Now cars are made in Mexico, and you can’t drink the water in Flint, but we’re going to turn this around.' The fact that the President is ZEROING OUT the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative that is essential to restoring Great Lakes water quality on which millions of people depend on for clean water shows his campaign promises hold no water. If we can’t trust him on his water quality promises, why should we trust him on his NAFTA trade promises?” As a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Kaptur has been on the front lines to fight for programs that help provide security and stability to Ohio’s working families. Watch Rep. Kaptur champion steelworkers and Buy American here. ###
03.30.2017	TOLEDO - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) is inviting parents, grandparents, caring adults, and youth from across Northern Ohio to participate in a new “Read to Succeed” challenge. “Read to Succeed” is an initiative to encourage children and adults to read together and in doing so, the community is ensuring that our youth are prepared to read. Experts say that a child should be well on their way to knowing 4,000 words by Kindergarten, and the “Read to Succeed” initiative will serve as a resource for our communities to make sure the children in our region begin their reading adventure as early as possible. “Reading is a very important part of our lives, and our children’s success in school depends on it,” said Kaptur. “Taking just 20 minutes each day to read with children can have an important impact on academic success. This short time spent reading together will expose children to 1.8 million words every year, which will help prepare them to advance. Join us in the challenge and you can help ensure our children are prepared to read, as they discover the magic in books.” WHEN: Friday, March 31, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Toledo Public Library, 325 Michigan Street, Toledo, Ohio 43604 WHO: Rep. Kaptur and pre-school children WHEN: Friday, March 31, 2017 at 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Lorain County Community Action Agency, Hopkins-Locke Head Start, 1050 Reid Avenue, Lorain, Ohio 44052 WHO: Rep. Kaptur and children attending Hopkins-Locke Head Start WHEN: Friday, March 31, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: The Centers for Families and Children, Gordon Square Early Learning Center, 5209 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44102 WHO: Rep. Kaptur and children attending Gordon Square Early Learning Center OPEN PRESS Additional information on the “Read to Succeed” initiative can be found here on Rep. Kaptur’s website. Link: https://kaptur.house.gov/read-succeed ###
03.29.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today reintroduced the Expressing the Sense of Congress that the Supreme Court Misinterpreted the First Amendment to the Constitution in the Case of Buckley v. Valeo resolution. The Resolution has 11 cosponsors. “This Resolution sends a message that the Supreme Court is dead wrong when it comes to free speech and campaign spending. Buckley v. Valeo might be an obscure Supreme Court case to some, but this decision took the inviolate First Amendment right away from the people and set the stage for the disastrous Citizens United and McCutcheon decisions. In order to secure free speech as a right of ‘we the people,’ this misinterpretation must be readdressed. “The wealthy continue to gain influence with more than one-third of President Trump’s high-level government posts given to donors, which is no coincidence. “This is the People’s House, and we must stand with the people, not major corporations or rich donors who give millions to super PACs. With President Trump’s call to ‘drain the swamp’, I urge my colleagues to act on campaign finance reform and help return the power of campaigns to the people.” Read the resolution here: Buckley v Valeo Resolution of disapproval.pdf Watch Kaptur's floor speech here. ###
03.28.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump issued a series of sweeping executive orders that rollback critical rules and protections on the environment. Kaptur statement: “This is sadly another backward move from an Administration that can’t find its way to the coexistence of cleaner air and a growing, innovative energy industry. We can invest in clean energy, create good jobs and protect the environment. Northern Ohio knows the opportunity in clean energy whether it is in wind, solar, natural gas and even slashing emissions in traditional energy production. Just as the President plans to dampen innovation, Wind Technician is the fastest growing job in America. “Climate change is not an abstract issue for many Ohioans. Its impacts can be felt all along the shoreline of Lake Erie where warmer water can exacerbate problems such as harmful algal blooms. The effects of climate change are far and wide and impact our land, our water and our air – let the science be our guide, Mr. President.” Kaptur is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water. ###
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), and U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-09) today invited Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to visit Lorain to meet with steelworkers and steel companies to see the impact of unfair trade on Ohio’s manufacturing sector. Ross committed to visit Lorain in separate meetings with Brown and Kaptur last week. The invitation follows the permanent idling of U.S. Steel Corporation’s No. 6 Quench and Temper facility in Lorain. Since 2015, more than 1,000 Lorain steelworkers have been laid off. “If unfair trade practices by China and other trading partners are left unaddressed, more steelworkers will be laid off and more steel mills will be closed,” said the lawmakers in their letter. “We were pleased to hear President Trump highlight the importance of the steel sector on the campaign trail, and we know you have extensive experience in the sector as well. We hope you will work with us to schedule a visit to Lorain in the near future so you can discuss with these workers and their families the Administration’s plan to restore strength to the sector by creating a level playing field for U.S. steel producers.” Full text of the letter is below and a PDF is available here: RossInvitationLorainOhioMar272017.pdf March 27, 2017 The Honorable Wilbur Ross Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Ross: We write to invite you to visit Lorain, Ohio, to meet with steel companies and steelworkers. This community has been hit hard by the downturn in the steel sector and would benefit from hearing you discuss the Administration’s plan to help defend U.S. steel companies from unfair trade practices that have caused numerous facilities to idle and thousands of workers to be laid off across the country. As you may know, United States Steel Corporation recently announced the permanent idling of its No. 6 Quench and Temper facility in Lorain. This announcement followed news from Republic Steel that it would shutter its nearby facility and lay off 200 workers. In total, more than 1,000 steelworkers in Lorain have been laid off since 2015. A similar trend has been seen nationwide. Between January 2015 and December 2016, more than 14,000 U.S. steelworkers lost their jobs. If unfair trade practices by China and other trading partners are left unaddressed, more steelworkers will be laid off and more steel mills will be closed. We were pleased to hear President Trump highlight the importance of the steel sector on the campaign trail, and we know you have extensive experience in the sector as well. We hope you will work with us to schedule a visit to Lorain in the near future so you can discuss with these workers and their families the Administration’s plan to restore strength to the sector by creating a level playing field for U.S. steel producers. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely,
03.24.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement after Republicans tabled the American Health Care Act (AHCA) also known as TrumpCare. Kaptur statement: “Let’s call a spade a spade, this bill was always a giant tax cut for the rich, posing as a health care bill. Its defeat is a great victory for the American people and the 900,000 Ohioans who now have insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act. “It is time for an honest effort to ensure we have an equitable health care system for all Americans. Rejecting this bill is step one, now we must continue the progress we have made under the Affordable Care Act.” Kaptur spoke on the House floor this week and told the story of one Ohio family’s tragic health care choice, forced upon them by this GOP-led health care debate. Watch the video here. ###
03.22.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today voted no on the Republican-led Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2017. This bill eliminates the requirement that certain kinds of health plans, known as Association Health Plans, have to provide basic services as part of health care coverage. These consumer protections were enacted through the Affordable Care Act and are known as Essential Health Benefits. These benefits include treatment for substance abuse and opioid addiction. “In addition to slashing Medicaid in TrumpCare, which pays for nearly half of all opioid treatment in Ohio, the Republican-led House now wants to exempt certain health plans from requirements to provide substance abuse treatment and other guaranteed benefits,” said Kaptur. “After all the progress we have made, this bill takes us backward. The American people deserve better, and they deserve our help as this epidemic ravages across Ohio and elsewhere.” ###
03.17.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) cosponsored the Healthy Families Act, which would allow workers to earn paid sick leave, as opposed to taking vacation time or unpaid leave. Paid sick leave is critical for when employees get sick or need to care for a loved one. 41 million workers in the private sector do not have access to paid sick days. “The fact that millions of working and middle-class people don’t have access to paid sick leave is immoral,” said Kaptur. “On the campaign trail, President Trump pledged to stand with working people in Ohio and across the nation. Well, Mr. President, this is a good place to start. Americans, no matter their job or state or city, deserve this foundational benefit that allows peace of mind for when they or a loved one falls ill.” The lead sponsors of the bicameral bill are Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). The bill has the support of 130 Members of Congress. The Healthy Families Act would allow workers at businesses with at least 15 employees to earn seven days or the equivalent 56 hours of paid sick leave per year. Employers that currently provide paid sick leave would not have to change their current policies as long as the minimum of seven days is provided. For more on the Healthy Families Act and its introduction click here. ###
03.16.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement about President Donald Trump’s draft budget proposal. “President Trump’s draft budget cedes the future and takes a sledgehammer to some of our nation’s dearest priorities. It is beyond me how these reckless and draconian cuts could help the American people. This proposal won’t improve national security efforts, create jobs or ensure we have clean air and water. President Trump even takes aim at the bipartisan and popular program that is helping to restore our Great Lakes, completely gutting critical funding. As a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will be on the front lines to fight for programs that help provide security and stability to Ohio’s working families. “In addition to broad cuts in valuable research and science, the President's budget makes it clear that he has not updated his worldview since the 1980s, and nowhere is that more obvious than in the Department of Energy budget. He seeks a big increase in spending on nuclear weapons but makes cuts to any and all programs that invest in clean energy. “This budget is Dead On Arrival. I would remind the White House that under the Constitution it is the Congress that holds the power of the purse. I hope my Republican colleagues on the Appropriations Committee remain committed to a collegial and cooperative process, that yields good results for the American people.” Kaptur is the Ranking Member on the Appropriations’ Subcommittee on Energy and Water, which oversees spending for the Department of Energy, Army Corps of Engineers, and other water infrastructure and energy related programs. ###
03.16.2017	Contact: Mark.Bednar@mail.house.gov (Duffy) Brian.Patrick@mail.house.gov (Huizenga) Dino.DiSanto@mail.house.gov (Joyce) Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov (Kaptur) Samantha.Bisogno@mail.house.gov (Nolan) Jeff.Gohringer@mail.house.gov (Slaughter) WASHINGTON, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Great Lakes Task Force and the Northeast-Midwest Coalition joined together to disapprove of the elimination of funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the President’s Budget Blueprint. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world — the Great Lakes. Congress has historically funded the GLRI to the tune of $300 million in each fiscal year. Below are the statements from the co-chairs. Rep. Sean Duffy (WI-7): “The GLRI is a critical program that protects the Lakes and the environment that Wisconsinites love. I will continue to fight every day to protect these critical funds and will work with the Trump Administration to make sure the President knows how important it is that these restoration activities continue.” Rep. Bill Huizenga (MI-2): "The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) is a critical program that works to preserve the Great Lakes for future generations. The health and vitality of the Great Lakes is instrumental to having a productive Great Lakes economy that creates good-paying jobs and sustained economic growth. "Ultimately, it is Congress that has the constitutional authority to determine which programs are funded. In an era where federal spending must be prioritized, I believe the GLRI, which has a history of proven results and strong bipartisan support, should continue to be a national priority. As Great Lakes Task Force members, we plan to have active conversations with both the Administration as well as our colleagues on Capitol Hill about the importance of the GLRI as Congress continues the appropriations process." Rep. Dave Joyce (OH-14): “As directed under the Constitution, Congress has the power of the purse. This budget proposal is the opening volley in a long process and the idea that the Administration would eliminate a program that protects drinking water for more than 30 million people is hard to comprehend. However, like we have done in the past, we will work with all the members from the Great Lakes region and beyond to restore funding for this vital program.” Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9): “President Trump's proposal cuts all funding to one of the most successful and popular clean water programs in the country," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Millions of Americans are depending on us to ensure safe, clean drinking water and economic growth in the Great Lakes region. Instead of bailing on the world's greatest collection of fresh water, Congress will build on our success and work together in a bipartisan way to fight for our Great Lakes.” Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-8): “Tens of thousands of good-paying jobs are at stake in the fight to preserve the GLRI. President Trump’s recommendation to cut this initiative would prove disastrous for Minnesota and the Nation,” Congressman Nolan said. “That money is necessary to pay for hundreds of successful programs to restore shorelines, clean up waterways like the St. Louis River, and continue dredging and harbor maintenance critical to moving Iron Range taconite, Minnesota feed grains and Minnesota manufactured products from the Port of Duluth up the Great Lakes.” Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25): “President Trump’s proposed elimination of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is an affront to the 26 million Americans in our region who rely on these lakes for commerce, drinking water, and transportation. This initiative has helped improve Lake Ontario for Rochester and has been absolutely critical in our fight against invasive species. It is clear with this budget that the president is turning his back on our moral obligation to be good stewards of the Great Lakes, which are home to 20 percent of all fresh water on Earth. As co-chair of the bipartisan Great Lakes Task Force, I will be working with Republicans and Democrats throughout the Great Lakes region to make sure this proposal does not become a reality.” ##### A group of U.S. Representatives from the 18 Northeastern and Midwestern states created the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition in 1976. The bipartisan Coalition is co-chaired by David Joyce and Rick Nolan. The House Great Lakes Task Forces is a bipartisan working group within the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition that cooperate to enhance the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. Founded in the mid-1980s, the Great Lakes Task Forces work together to advocate for policies and programs that enhance our unique natural resource—the Great Lakes. The task force is co-chaired by Sean Duffy, Bill Huizenga, Marcy Kaptur and Louise Slaughter.
03.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) analysis of the House Republican-led health care bill, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). Kapur statement: “If this bill becomes law, 24 million Americans will be without insurance. That's plain cruel.‎ Republicans claim to be the party of life, but this bill will take away prenatal care, and care for unborn babies and mothers. This bill shifts the costs of nursing home care to middle-class families so the rich can receive a tax break. This bill is anti-life. “Let’s compare how harmful the current Republican bill is to the progress we have made under the Affordable Care Act; about 48 million Americans lacked health insurance in 2008 and today, ‎that number has been almost cut in half. This means more than 20 million people now have a new lease on life, and a chance to be healed in the event of catastrophe or illness. “The Affordable Care Act, which bolstered foundational programs like Medicaid and Medicare, helps millions of Americans, including about 900,000 in Ohio. We cannot afford to turn back to a time when many people suffered and died because they did not have health insurance.” ###
03.13.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) sent a letter to President Donald Trump requesting immediate and urgent assistance regarding the loss of jobs in the steel industry in Lorain, northern Ohio and across America. Key excerpts from Kaptur's letter: "Respectfully, I would recommend the immediate assistance of your Administration in every way possible to avoid permanent closure of these operations. We invite you to visit Lorain very soon, if that is possible, to assess the dire situation and evaluate alternatives to delay this decision. “The involvement of your economic team to meet with company and labor representatives of U.S. and Republic Steel as well as local and state officials -- in Washington, D.C. or Lorain -- could assist us as we seek an alternative pathway forward so Lorain's historic steel-making capacity may be secured to meet today's market realities. Your Administration's attention to developing an economic reinvestment strategy for Lorain itself and its impacted workforce could offer more hope than the bitter past has delivered here." Read the full letter here: Kaptur letter to Trump on steelworker assistance 03.11.17.pdf ###
03.10.2017	CONTACT: Daniel Outlaw (202) 225-1956 (Knight) Josh Stewart (202) 225-4146 (Kaptur) KNIGHT AND KAPTUR URGE INVESTMENT IN AVIATION TECHNOLOGY BIPARTISAN LETTER ARGUES FOR ADEQUATE NASA FUNDING TO PRESIDENT (WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Representatives Steve Knight (CA-25) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) led a bipartisan effort on Friday to urge the President to invest in America’s aviation and air traffic management technology research and aerospace initiatives. In a letter signed by a bipartisan group of 31 Members of Congress, Knight and Kaptur made the case for increased federal funding for NASA and its aeronautics research programs. They point out that aerospace plays a vital role in the American economy. Commercial aviation alone contributes approximately $1.6 trillion to the national economy and supports about 11 million jobs, and the aerospace manufacturing sector employs 1.7 million highly skilled, well paid Americans, and generates $146 billion to the export economy. The global market will continue to grow, the Representatives write, and in order, to reap the benefits we must act before other countries leapfrog U.S. manufacturers’ capabilities. “Over the next 17 years, the number of air passengers will double from 3.2 billion passengers to 7 billion worldwide. The market for new aircraft sales, parts, and services is projected to grow to $8 to 10 trillion,” the letter states. “Eying this opportunity, global leaders – China, Russia, France, and Japan – are investing billions of dollars into aeronautics research and development (R&D) to compete with U.S. companies.” The letter argues that a commitment to NASA’s ongoing research and development programs is the key to developing and integrating the technology necessary to compete in the 21st century. Federal funding for this type of initiative has steadily fallen over the last several decades, and that needs to change for the U.S. to keep its edge. “Along with NASA’s Journey to Mars, the cultivation of a dynamic commercial space industry, and the construction of telescopes to search for the origins of our universe, the first ‘A’ in NASA – Aeronautics – underpins all of our exploration of air and space,” Knight and Kaptur say in the correspondence. “It is shortsighted to withhold investments in the technologies that will generate great returns for America.” A copy of the letter can be found here: Knight Kaptur NASA letter 20170310.pdf # # #
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03) together voiced opposition to the current Republican health care proposal. This statement comes as Republican-led committees in the House began moving their health care proposals without proper transparency or in a process that respects the voices and input of the American people. The American Nurses Association, American Medical Association, AARP and many other hospital and health care associations oppose the bill. “In the dead of night, knowing most Americans were sound asleep and couldn't listen, the Republicans began pushing this harmful and reckless health insurance‎ bill through House Committees,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This proposal rewards the rich and health care executives while denying care to hardworking Americans. The Republican plan does nothing to control the cost of medicine and imposes far higher premium rates on people who live paycheck to paycheck. We must build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act, and not turn back to a time many Americans went without care.” “Republicans jammed this bill through multiple committees in just two days, giving the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office no time to report on this bill’s devastating effects on coverage and cost and refusing our citizens a chance to have their voices heard. This dangerous, misguided bill will mean less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs. This is not what the American people want and this is not the direction we should be taking our country,” said Congressman Ryan. "The Republican plan is another example of broken promises from their party. As they race to pass a bill without Congressional Budget Office review, their plan offers less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs. It hurts the elderly, the sick, and the poor, and rewards the young and the wealthy. Every American deserves quality, affordable health care, but what the Republicans have put forth drastically limits access. Their plan is an insult to the people of this country. It will endanger the health of generations to come,” said Congresswoman Fudge. "Republicans have had seven years to develop their own comprehensive healthcare plan. Yet, they have failed to deliver a workable plan—even conceding that their new bill is a 'work in progress.' That being said, it is painfully obvious that 'Republicancare' is going to be a prescription for disaster for our seniors, women, people with disabilities, the sick and countless working families,” said Congresswoman Beatty. Additionally, Democratic Whip, Rep. Steny Hoyer has invited Americans to visit https://resistrepeal.org/ to make their voices heard in light of the Republican-led efforts to rush this bill through Committee markup. Facts about the Affordable Care Act in Ohio: According to the House Energy and House Oversight Committees, 866,000 individuals in Ohio have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented and could lose their coverage if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 212,046 individuals purchased high-quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the exchanges. 174,448 individuals received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $250 per individual, and are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 665,900 individuals enrolled in Medicaid under the ACA’s Medicaid expansion and could now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 119,000 kids have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented. 81,000 young adults were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA. They now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. ###
03.08.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member on the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, welcomed a broad cross-section of members of Congress from across the country to testify before the subcommittee at a Members’ Day hearing On Wednesday, March 8, 2017. Representatives testified before the Subcommittee to highlight critical energy efficiency and infrastructure programs and speak out against any harmful cuts to the Department of Energy (DOE), the Army Corps of Engineers, and other programs. “Thank you to the lawmakers from across the aisle and across the country for participating in Members’ Day. It is important that we listen to one another so we can work together to protect valuable programs from reckless or draconian cuts,” said Kaptur. “As Ranking Member on Appropriations’ Energy and Water Subcommittee, I will lead the charge to protect programs that improve energy efficiency, make our country more energy independent, and bolster our water infrastructure. These programs create jobs and defend our precious natural resources, which in many communities like mine in Ohio, drive good jobs in tourism, construction, fishing and beyond,” Kaptur continued. Members from both parties spoke about critical energy efficiency, water infrastructure other critical programs. Below are a few highlights from Members of Congress’ prepared remarks at today’s Member Day: Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-08) testified about the Soo Locks and its economic impact “The economic importance of the Soo Locks can hardly be over-emphasized. It is vital that the Congress provide sufficient funding for the Army Corps of Engineers’ Navigation program so that projects like this can move forward. This is a great long-term investment for our Nation. We are talking about more efficiency; economic growth; more business opportunity and investment; and more good paying middle-class jobs.” Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02) testified about Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) Fund “EERE funds national labs such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in my home state of Colorado. From 2009 to the end of 2015, EERE’s building Technologies Office finalized 40 new or updated efficiency standards for more than 45 household and commercial products, estimated to save consumers more than $543 billion and reduce pollution by 2.3 billion metric tons through 2030.” Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11) testified about the importance of funding for DOE’s Office of Science, which supports, among other items, vital pharmaceutical and solar research “I would urge this Subcommittee to seize the opportunity to put our researchers at ease by providing funding that supports the critical work of the Department of Energy’s Office of Science.” Rep. Bill Huizenga (MI-02) testified about efforts to increase U.S. Army Corps of Engineers harbor maintenance funding “Full use of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is urgently needed to support critical maritime economic activity. […] This funding is especially vital for the 140 federally maintained commercial and recreational ports and harbors in the Great Lakes, many of which are facing a crisis.” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) testified about many different energy, water, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and highlighted DOE’s Wind Energy program “The Wind Energy Program improves our nation’s renewable energy goals by furthering advancements in wind energy research and technologies, including wind energy project design, optimization, and testing. The program also conducts important research to increase capacity for distributed wind, which has the ability to harness the full potential of rural America to play a major role to lower the costs for consumers.” ###
03.07.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today sent a letter signed by 21 lawmakers to President Donald Trump urging action on America’s multiemployer pension crisis. The letter tasks President Trump to work with Congress and repeal the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA) in favor of a more equitable solution. MPRA could force 1.5 million retirees to face the threat of reduced retirement benefits. “Our retirees deserve better, and should not continue to carry the burden of bad policy. I call on President Trump to side with working people and support legislation that protects retirees,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “These pensions are earned benefits, period. The current law is unfair and could do severe economic harm to families and communities across this country.” “Workers in this country are profit creators. Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are deferred payment for work that was already done. And when these pensions are cut or dissolved, it is a clear breach of contract and workers are being robbed. I call on President Trump to do the right thing for the 47,000 Ohioans and 10 million Americans who have had their hard earned retirement security ripped away from them through no fault of their own,” said Congressman Ryan. The letter was signed by Reps. Kaptur, (Tim) Ryan, Higgins, Tonko, Peterson, Beatty, Green, Napolitano, Nolan, Bustos, Visclosky, Schakowsky, McCollum, Cleaver, Pocan, Moore, Dingell, Lynch, Walz, Wasserman Schultz, Fudge, Jayapal, Speier. See letter attached. 3.7.17 Trump Multiemployer Pension Crisis.pdf
03.06.2017	Cleveland -- On Monday, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dean of the Ohio Delegation and founding Co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, will hold a press availability regarding concerning reports that President Donald Trump's campaign met with Russian officials last year. This includes reports in the Cleveland Plain Dealer and NPR that the Republican National Convention in Cleveland was a location for many such meetings with Russian officials, like Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. While these meetings occurred in Cleveland, Republicans changed their policy platform regarding Russia’s conflict with Ukraine, a departure from Republican party orthodoxy. Kaptur will call on citizens to report any information regarding Trump campaign’s contact with Russian officials during the Convention. When: 3:00 PM. EST, Monday, March 6, 2017 Where: Cleveland City Club, 850 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44114 What: OPEN PRESS Kaptur will give remarks and take questions from press Please RSVP to Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov. Kaptur is deeply concerned about the Trump Administration’s careless rhetoric regarding Russia and supports robust efforts to get more information on President Trump’s ties to Russia. This includes; requiring President Trump to disclose his tax returns, an independent investigation on the Trump Administration's ties to Russia and passage of Rep. Jerry Nadler’s (NY-10) House Resolution of Inquiry requesting information from the Department of Justice on President Trump's business conflicts and Russia ties. ###
03.03.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) led a bipartisan letter calling on the Trump Administration to release an Army Corps of Engineers evaluation intended to determine the possibility of establishing preventative measures against an invasion of Asian Carp into the Great Lakes. Rep. Mike Bishop (MI-08) and Rep. Bill Huizenga (MI-02) were the Republican leads on the letter and twenty-six members of Congress signed onto the effort. “The Asian carp represent an enormous threat to our Lakes. More delays mean greater threats to the Great Lakes fishery. It's time for the Army Corps to report its findings so we may get on with the actions needed to protect the Lakes,” said Kaptur. “The Great Lakes play an invaluable role in our daily life here in Michigan and neighboring states. Our environment, tourism, fishing and regional economy depend on the health and well-being of these precious waterways – and all are in serious jeopardy if we do not take action against the Asian Carp and fellow invasive species,” said Bishop. “I urge the President to direct the Army Corps of Engineers to immediately begin working with the states and local organizations on implementing a long-term strategy to protect and preserve the Great Lakes before potential damage is done.” "In order to protect both the ecosystem and the economy of the Great Lakes, we must have complete, accurate, and reliable information from the Army Corps of Engineers," said Huizenga. "Delaying the release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation does nothing to stop the threat Asian Carp and other invasive species pose to the largest freshwater ecosystem on the planet. By slow walking this important information, the federal government is jeopardizing the livelihood of hardworking families in Michigan and across the Great Lakes Basin. Time is of the essence." This comes after news the Trump Administration delayed the release of the evaluation. Read the letter here: SignedBrandonRoadStudyLTRtoPOTUS.pdfSignedBrandonRoadStudyLTRtoPOTUS.pdf
02.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 28, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146, Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov Kaptur stands with Judiciary Democrats to push for investigation regarding President Trump, Russia and conflicts of interest Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today stood with her House Democratic colleagues in support of Rep. Jerry Nadler’s (NY-10) House Resolution of Inquiry requesting information from the Department of Justice on President Trump's business conflicts and Russia ties. The Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on the measure on Tuesday. “With news that senior White House staff urged the FBI and the chairman of the Senate and House Intelligence Committees to do damage control around unflattering stories, it is more important than ever that we have an independent investigation into Russia’s ties to the President and his senior aides,” said Kaptur. “Since day one President Trump has been in violation of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause. We still don’t know what his financial connections are to Putin and Russia, only that his own past comments contradict his recent assertions that he has no relationships there,” Kaptur continued. “As Co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, I am very concerned about the continued back-channeling, deception and inconstancy from the Trump Administration on Russia. We must be united as a nation with our NATO allies, lest we strengthen Putin’s effort to destabilize Eastern Europe and the rest of the world.” Before the Judiciary Committee vote Kaptur stood with Rep. Jerry Nadler and Judiciary Committee Democrats at a press conference The press conference and Committee vote comes after news reports that President Donald Trump’s White House Chief of Staff, Reince Priebus urged the Federal Bureau of Investigation to publicly dispute a report from the New York Times, that described contacts between Russian intelligence officials and President Trump’s then campaign team. Priebus’ efforts also included contacts with Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA-22), the chairmen of the Senate and House intelligence committees to ask them to challenge the veracity of the news accounts. Administration officials said that Priebus’ denouncements, which ranged from “overstated” to calling them “complete garbage,” had been cleared by the FBI Director and Deputy Director, calling into further question the independence of the intelligence community. Kaptur introduced a bill in January on emoluments legislation to empower Congress to explicitly deny President-elect Trump consent of acceptance of any and all payments or gifts. The bill, entitled the No Congressional Consent for President Donald J. Trump to Accept Foreign Emoluments of Any Kind Whatsoever Act ensures compliance with the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause. The bill as introduced has more than 30 original cosponsors. Read Kaptur’s full remarks on the matter in an op-ed, published in The Hill. The op-ed was coauthored by former Indiana Rep. Jill Long Thompson, now an ethics professor at Indiana University. What is the Emolument’s clause and how does it apply to Trump? For more, read a report from the Brookings Institution authored by former Republican and Democratic ethics advisors. ###
02.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 28, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov Kaptur to host Bay Village citizen at President Trump’s address to Joint Session of Congress Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) will host Kevin Filiatraut of Bay Village, Ohio as a special guest at President Donald Trump’s speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday. Mr. Filiatraut and his family have been helped by provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) including access to lifesaving cancer treatment for his wife, Kim. “In 2014, Kim Filiatraut, Kevin’s wife, lost her job to outsourcing and shortly after was diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer. Because of ACA protections that prevent discrimination for preexisting conditions long fought by the insurance industry, Kim was able to receive lifesaving treatment through Kevin’s insurance,” said Kaptur. “Reckless repeal of the current health insurance laws is daunting for families like the Filiatrauts, and stories such as theirs must be heard throughout Ohio and in the halls of Congress to ensure our health insurance system works for all Americans.” WHEN: Tuesday, February 28, 2017 9:00 PM WHERE: U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C. President Donald Trump’s Address to a Joint Session of Congress Similar in nature to a State of the Union address, the event will be broadcast nationally. For press inquiries please email Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov. Kaptur spoke on the floor of the House about the Filiatraut’s health care story. Watch the video here. Additionally, on Saturday, February 18, Kaptur held a roundtable in Toledo with several individuals who have impacted by the Affordable Care Act and the Republican-led discussion on repeal. Read their stories here. ###
02.23.2017	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) held a conference call and open press discussion in Toledo with residents of northern Ohio who shared firsthand accounts of the impact the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has had on their lives. “Thank you to these voices from our community for speaking out on the impact of changing the Affordable Care Act,” said Kaptur. “The ACA has key protections that promote wellness, preventative care and help to curb costs for consumers. When it comes to convincing Congress, the American people are our best weapons. In order to learn how to improve our health care system, we must listen to the people. Let’s not move forward with reckless repeal, instead, let’s build on this progress.” From left to right; Joseph, Mary, Alicia, Rep. Kaptur, Nicholas, Kaylie Below are summaries of the stories shared on the call: Mary and Joseph: Joseph is self-employed and his health care has been covered through Mary’s employer-sponsored insurance. Mary retires this year and is eligible for Medicare. Since he will no longer be covered through his wife’s health insurance Joseph, at 62, is trying to bridge the insurance gap until he is eligible for Medicare. They considered getting coverage through the Marketplace but opted for COBRA insurance for 18 months in lieu of the exchange, citing uncertainty from Washington regarding the status of the health care law. The monthly COBRA payment is twice the premium of insurance through the exchange with a subsidy. Joseph is also putting off a knee replacement because of this uncertainty. Alicia: As a single parent, Alicia twice benefitted from Medicaid while she was serving in the AmeriCorps State and Vista programs. One occasion was surgery for Alicia’s son to have his tonsils removed, and the other was a procedure, for Alicia, to remove pre-cancerous cells. Medicaid provided peace of mind and on both occasions, Alicia would not have been able to pay for the surgeries without Medicaid. Nicholas: Nicholas is a 21-year-old college student about to graduate. He has Crohn’s Disease and has been suffering with it for six years. He is under his parent's insurance which the ACA allows until age 26. The coverage provides great help in covering his medical bills. His treatment his prohibitively expensive and costs about $50,000 to $60,000 every eight weeks. Nicholas would not be able to afford this life-saving treatment without insurance. When he graduates, without the assurances provided through the ACA which prohibit discrimination or exclusion based on pre-existing conditions as well as the elimination of lifetime caps, Nicholas’ health insurance future is uncertain. Kaylie: Kaylie’s father fell ill in 2007 when Kaylie was nine and Medicaid was the only insurance she has ever known. Her father was in and out of hospitals until his death in 2014. Kaylie’s family was able to afford the care her father needed because of Medicaid. Additionally, Kaylie recently injured her knee and once again Medicaid was her saving grace. Facts about the Affordable Care Act in Ohio: In Ohio’s Ninth District 44,000 individuals gained health insurance since 2012, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. The uninsured rate was cut in half in the District, from 13.3% in 2012 to 7% in 2015. [U.S. Census Bureau data] According to the House Energy and House Oversight Committees, 866,000 individuals in Ohio have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented and could lose their coverage if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 212,046 individuals purchased high-quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the exchanges. 174,448 individuals received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $250 per individual, and are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 665,900 individuals enrolled in Medicaid under the ACA’s Medicaid expansion and could now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 119,000 kids have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented. 81,000 young adults were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA. They now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26.
02.18.2017	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) will host a conference call and open press discussion with residents of northern Ohio who will share firsthand accounts of the impact the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has had on their lives. In light of talk and confusion from Congressional Republicans and the Trump Administration on their plans to dismantle the ACA, Kaptur will outline current discussions in Washington and share the experiences of a few Ohio residents advocating that important coverage and access to health insurance remain in place. WHEN: Saturday, February 18, 2017, at 2:00 PM EST WHERE: Ninth District Congressional Office, One Maritime Plaza, Toledo, OH 43604 WHO: OPEN PRESS and Media Conference Call Representative Marcy Kaptur Families affected by potential repeal of the ACA Facts about the Affordable Care Act in Ohio: In Ohio’s Ninth District 44,000 individuals gained health insurance since 2012, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. [U.S. Census Bureau data] The uninsured rate was cut in half in the Ohio Ninth District. From 13.3% in 2012 to 7% in 2015. [U.S. Census Bureau data] According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Committee on Oversight, 866,000 individuals in Ohio have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented and could lose their coverage if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 212,046 individuals in the state who purchased high-quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the exchanges. 74,448 individuals in the state who received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $250 per individual, are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 665,900 individuals in the state who enrolled in Medicaid under the ACA’s Medicaid expansion now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 19,000 kids who have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented are also at risk of having their coverage rolled back. 81,000 young adults in the state who were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. Repeal of the Affordable Care Act will: Result in 20 million people nationwide losing their coverage. This includes 866,000 in Ohio and 44,000 in the Ohio Ninth District. End the requirement that health insurance companies cover preventive care services without charging a copayment or coinsurance. [Healthcare.gov] Services such as cancer screenings and domestic violence counseling would no longer be provided without a copay. [Healthcare.gov] End the requirement that insurance companies provide yearly wellness visits free of charge. [HHS] End the requirement that health insurance companies provide flu shots and other vaccines without charging a copay. [HHS] End the provision that allows young adults to stay on their parents’ insurance plans until they reach the age of 26. [Healthcare.gov] ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) this week joined her colleagues in the newly formed Blue Collar Caucus to speak out on issues impacting workers under the Trump Administration. The Blue Collar Caucus was founded by Reps. Marc Veasey (TX-33) and Brendan Boyle (PA-13). The speech comes after Kaptur voted against the House GOP-led roll back of several critical Department of Labor rules (H.J. Res 66 and 67) that are already boosting access to retirement savings for American workers. Kaptur also joined her Ohio colleagues U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown and Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) to oppose President Trump’s efforts to roll back Labor’s Fiduciary Rule which provides accountability and protections for individuals seeking financial counsel on their retirement accounts. Excerpts from Kaptur’s speech: “Workers in northern Ohio, since the year 2000, earn on average $7,000 less than at the beginning of the century. These are hardworking people, they are fighting back, but they need our help. “In the last three weeks, if we take a look at President Trump’s term thus far, we begin to see ‘the real Donald’ at work. After months of grandiose campaign promises to renegotiate NAFTA, bring back American manufacturing jobs and ‘make America great’, we can begin to assess where he is putting his attention. “As we represent blue collar America, what is he doing for them? The proof is in his actions or lack thereof. After roughly 20 executive orders and actions, we see President Trump has a penchant for media-genic events and moments, […] but apparently not sending any legislation up here yet. “And most striking, is his clear motivation to assist his friends on Wall Street, with appointments to the Administration such as Secretary of Treasury, rather than paying attention to average Americans who voted for him. He has filled his cabinet with billionaires and multi-millionaires who simply cannot figure out how to walk in the shoes of blue collar America. His actions to help the wealthiest Americans will have significant consequences. So, what happened to his promise to drain the swamp? “While all of this happens just miles away at the White House, our Republican Congressional colleagues remain either silent or they are moving the car in reverse.” Watch Kaptur’s full speech here. ###
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) took to the House floor to discuss President Donald Trump’s economic team, which is now stacked with Goldman Sachs executives. Kaptur spoke as the Senate voted to confirm Steve Mnuchin, President Trump’s choice to lead the Treasury Department. Mnuchin spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs. Excerpts from Kaptur’s floor remarks: “President Trump said he was going to drain the swamp; let’s check the facts. Wall Street’s golddiggers are in charge of the swamp already. “The President’s Senior Strategist Steve Bannon spent half a decade working at Goldman Sachs. His National Economic Advisor Gary Cohn spent 25 more and rose to become the President of Goldman Sachs. Dina Powell, the Senior Counsel for Economic Initiatives was a partner since 2010. “Steve Mnuchin spent 17 years at years at Goldman and was dubbed the foreclosure king. Mnuchin used shady tactics to kick hundreds of thousands of families out of their homes in Ohio and beyond. Mnuchin is the ultimate swamp dweller. While millions of Americans lost their homes and with millions more still underwater Goldman increased its profits. “When Wall Street rigs our economy again, does anyone seriously expect President Trump to drain the swamp? He is fast in it with them!” Watch Kaptur take on President Trump’s Goldman Sachs team on the House floor here. ###
02.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined as a cosponsor of the Buy American Improvement Act of 2017. The bipartisan legislation would ensure that iron and steel for infrastructure and transportation projects is made in America. The bill was introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03). “There is bipartisan agreement on this issue, and President Trump stated many times he supports bolstering efforts to support American-made iron and steel,” said Kaptur. “It is simple, construction projects in America should use American made products. We owe it to the workers in Lorain, Youngstown and across America to get this done. I call on Speaker Ryan to bring the Buy American Improvement Act to the House floor for a vote immediately.” This legislation will strengthen and expand existing Buy America requirements across a wider range of infrastructure projects. The bill is endorsed by AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department, BlueGreen Alliance, Coalition for a Prosperous America, International Association of Machines and Aerospace Workers, Lake Carriers’ Association, Steel Manufacturers Association, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and United Steelworkers. For more on the bill click here. Watch Kaptur champion steelworkers and Buy America here. ###
02.03.2017	Kaptur introduces bipartisan House Resolution calling on Russia to stop the bombing and violent attacks in eastern UkraineWith many dead and dozens wounded, Kaptur leads call for Russia to stop the killing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a founding Co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, today introduced a resolution calling on Russia to stop violating the agreed upon cease fire, and stop the violence in eastern Ukraine. The resolution comes after the aggressive escalation of attacks by Russia on Avdiivka in the Donetsk Region of Ukraine. The resolution was introduced with fellow Ukraine Caucus Co-chairs Rep. Andy Harris (MD-01), Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) and Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09). Additionally, Ukraine Caucus Co-chairs put out a statement condemning the violence yesterday. Statement from Kaptur: “The day after our new President spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin, eastern Ukraine saw a surge of violent attacks from Russia, killing and wounding dozens while leaving thousands without power in the cold Ukrainian winter. Russia’s ongoing aggression in Ukraine is all part of a long-standing campaign to undermine the United States and its NATO allies. “Russia is testing our new administration and America must stand up for the people of Ukraine and denounce the actions of Putin’s Russia. That is why I introduced with my Ukraine Caucus colleagues a resolution that does just this. I invite all my House colleagues to join me and call upon the Russian Federation to stop the violence and honor the cease-fire. “Additionally, Russia must withdraw heavy weapons and troops, stop financing separatists, allow repairs to critical infrastructure and fulfill all of its commitments under the Minsk Agreements. “America must assist with the humanitarian crisis Ukraine faces and we can start with demanding Russia end the violent antics.” Watch a video of Kaptur’s speech in Congress regarding Russia’s recent attacks in Ukraine here. See text of resolution below: Whereas in 2014, the Russian Federation forcibly and illegally occupied the Ukraine territory of Crimea and invaded regions of eastern Ukraine, in gross violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty, deserving condemnation from the international community; Whereas the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances was signed December 5, 1994 by the United States, the United Kingdom and the Russian Federation pursuant to Ukraine's, Belarus's and Kazakhstan's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and included security assurances against threats or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of said countries; Whereas on July 17, 2014, the Russia military violated Ukraine's territorial integrity by firing a Buk anti-aircraft missile which downed Malaysian Airlines Flight 17, killing 298 passengers and crew members; Whereas the Russian Federation under President Vladimir Putin has engaged in relentless political, economic, and military aggression to subvert the independence and violate the territorial integrity of Ukraine; Whereas combined Russian-separatist have massed tens of thousands of troops on its borders with Ukraine and maintained thousands of troops in eastern Ukraine; Whereas Russia has committed millions of dollars into funding propaganda, disinformation, and military expenditures to further its aspirations to reassemble its empire; Whereas Russian interference in the Ukraine contributed to the death of the ‘Heavenly Hundred’ during the Maidan; Whereas Russia’s war in Ukraine has left more than 10,000 dead since 2014 and has created a humanitarian crisis that has left 1.7 million people internally displaced; Whereas the humanitarian crisis is worsening as more than 5 million people in eastern Ukraine lack sufficient access to food, emergency shelter, and medical treatment; Whereas on January 30th, 2017, according to the United States Mission to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the number of recent Russian ceasefire violations in the Donbas have spiked greatly, with explosions around the Ukrainian town of Avdiivka surpassing 2,300; Whereas damage from this recent bombardment has stranded 17,000 people, estimated to include 2,500 children, in Avdiivka without water, electricity, or heat in freezing conditions; Whereas up to 400,000 individuals in the surrounding area are also at risk of hypothermia with winter’s freezing temperatures; Whereas Russia’s covert war in Ukraine is clear, gross and uncorrected violations of relevant OSCE commitments. Russia’s action in Ukraine is just one aspect of its campaign to undermine the international order established, and defended at great cost, by the United States and its allies in the aftermath of World War II and the Cold War; Whereas deterring Russian aggression in Ukraine is an effective way for the United States to protect its vital interests in NATO and around the world; So be it resolved by the House of Representatives, 1. The House of Representatives calls on the Russian Federation to: a. Stop the violence, b. Honor the ceasefire agreed to under the Minsk Accord, c. withdraw heavy weapons and troops from Ukraine’s sovereign territory, d. stop financing the separatists in Eastern Ukraine, e. allow repairs to critical infrastructure, f. and fulfill all of its Minsk commitments; 2. The House of Representatives expresses its sense that continued and further unlawful Russian aggression in Ukraine may warrant considering the imposition of additional and more burdensome sanctions on the Russian Federation. 3. The House of Representatives calls on the United States and other NATO countries to provide more defensive military support for Ukraine in fighting off Kremlin aggression. 4. The House of Representatives calls on the United States, the United Nations and its constituent agencies to provide more support for the 1.7 million internally displaced people in Ukraine.
02.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 2, 2017 Bryan Shuy (Harris), 202-225-5311 Josh Stewart (Kaptur), 202-225-4146 Aaron Clark (Fitzpatrick), 202-225-4276 Emily Del Morone (Levin), 202-240-9855 Bipartisan Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Statement on Escalation of Violence in Eastern Ukraine WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Sander Levin (D-MI), today issued the following statement on the escalation of violence in Eastern Ukraine: “We call on Russia-controlled separatists to immediately stop the violence in Eastern Ukraine, honor the ceasefire, and withdraw heavy weapons. We reaffirm our support for the Minsk accords, and stand in strong opposition to all efforts that would encourage military action against Ukraine. “As Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, we are deeply concerned with loss of life and the deteriorating humanitarian condition in Avdiivka, in eastern Ukraine, since heavy fighting broke out on January 28th. According to Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), at least eight people have died in the last three days, and 17,000 civilians, including 2,500 children, do not have access to water, electricity, or heat in below freezing temperatures. With each continued day of fighting, their condition becomes more dire. “The United States must stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our European allies and with the Ukraine people, who have demonstrated time and again their will for a sovereign and democratic country, free from Russia's interference. We strongly urge Russian authorities to respect human life and abide by the ceasefire.” ###
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a press conference today, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) was joined by Reps. Walter Jones (NC-03), Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) to introduce the Return to Prudent Banking Act and urge President Donald Trump to live up to his campaign promises on reinstating Glass-Steagall protections in our banking system. The bill is bipartisan with 26 cosponsors and is endorsed by Public Citizen and the AFL-CIO. “The 2008 crash nearly took down our entire economy and led to the great recession which wiped out average Americans’ income. But now, Democrats and Republicans have memorialized support for Glass-Steagall in their respective political platforms. Even President Trump has declared his support for a new Glass-Steagall law,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “That is why we are here, to build on the momentum and the movement to reinstate Glass-Stegall.” “Wall Street banks should not be allowed to use taxpayer-insured consumer deposits to gamble in the markets and then get taxpayer bailouts for failed decisions,” said Congressman Walter B. Jones. “It’s time to put American taxpayers and depositors first. It’s time to pass the Return to Prudent Banking Act and reinstate Glass-Steagall.” “I am proud to cosponsor the Return to Prudent Banking Act, which revives the separation between commercial banking and securities companies as written in the Glass-Steagall Act. These are smart financial reforms designed to protect our economy from another financial crisis and hardworking American taxpayers from another Wall Street collapse. We know that the climate of deregulation led to the financial crisis. We can’t let that happen again,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “From the Great Depression through the turn of the 21st Century, Glass-Steagall helped keep our economy safe. Repealing it allowed too-big-to-fail banks to gamble with the savings and livelihoods of the American people, with devastating, irrevocable consequences. Hawaiʻi, along with communities across the country, paid the price in 2008 with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Today, the banks that were ‘too big to fail’ in 2008 are even bigger and more powerful now. We must reinstate Glass-Steagall and create a financial system that works for every American—not just Wall Street banks,” said Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard. Background: Kaptur has introduced this legislation in every Congress since 2009 and led the way with this common sense proposal that will reinstate the separation between commercial and investment banking. These rules were first established through the Glass-Steagall and Banking Act of 1933. Read more on the Return To Prudent Banking Act here: Return to Prudent Banking Act FINAL.pdf “We welcome Rep. Kaptur’s common sense appeal that Wall Street return to prudent banking. With bipartisan support, the Glass-Steagall separation from government-backed money and speculation will inevitably be restored. The only question is how soon. Public Citizen is committed to shrinking time,” Bart Naylor, Public Citizen. Current original cosponsors of Return to Prudent Banking Act, H.R. 790: Reps. Lynch, Ryan (OH), Pocan, DeLauro, Holmes-Norton, Schakowsky, Doyle, Slaughter, Jones, Welch, Watson-Coleman, Serrano, Lipinski, Garamendi, Speier, Ellison, Conyers, Gabbard, Grijalva, Tonko, McGovern, Defazio, Lee, Capuano, Pingree and Fudge. Contact: Josh Stewart, Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov (Kaptur) Allison Tucker, Allison.Tucker@mail.house.gov (Jones) Michael Zetts, Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov (Ryan) Emily Latimer, Emily.Latimer@mail.house.gov (Gabbard) ###
01.30.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 30, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, joshua.stewart@mail.house.gov (Kaptur) Michael Zetts, michael.zetts@mail.house.gov (Ryan) Lauren E. Williams, lauren.williams@mail.house.gov (Fudge) Dominic Manecke, Dominic.Manecke@mail.house.gov (Beatty) Reps. Kaptur, Ryan, Fudge and Beatty call on Betsy DeVos to pay $5.3 million in fines owed to OhioBefore any vote or confirmation, Trump’s choice for Education Secretary must pay PAC fines WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03) call on Betsy DeVos to pay the $5.3 million owed to the state of Ohio by her Political Action Committee (PAC) for breaking campaign finance law. Before any further action on the confirmation for Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education, the Ohio representatives demand DeVos pay the fines owed by her PAC, All Children Matter. “Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education owes the state of Ohio millions for campaign finance violation by her PAC,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Betsy DeVos is not above the law, and before the Senate moves forward with her confirmation she must pay the money owed.” "The American people expect more from their highest officials, Betsy Devos should immediately pay the fines owed to Ohio after she broke our state’s election laws. Access to a quality public education has been the great equalizer in our nation – empowering all citizens to have a shot at a better life for themselves and their families. The Department of Education needs a leader who believes that public education is a universal right for everyone regardless of race, creed or sexual orientation. Betsy Devos is not that leader," said Congressman Ryan. “I am deeply concerned about President Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education. Betsy DeVos is ‘anti-public education,’ ‘anti-transparency and accountability’ in for-profit schools, and ‘anti-teacher unions,’ which represent millions of our nation’s teachers.” said Congresswoman Fudge. “Even more egregious, DeVos is ‘anti-following the rules.’ By not paying back $5.3 million in campaign fines, she has a blatant disregard of Ohio’s laws and an open disdain for our state’s electoral system. DeVos must not be confirmed to lead America’s education system – she poses an imminent threat to our children, who has no respect for the law.” “As evidenced by her troubling and inadequate responses during the Senate confirmation hearing, it is obvious that Betsy DeVos is woefully unqualified to head the U.S. Department of Education. Also troubling, under DeVos’ leadership, All Children Matter PAC repeatedly violated Ohio campaign finance laws, racking up $5.3 million dollars in fines. Yet, eight years later, neither she nor her former PAC have paid the first penny—which is unconscionable. That is why I call on the Senate to reject DeVos’ nomination and to confirm a nominee who can prepare our children for 21st Century success,” said Congresswoman Beatty. Background: According to tax documents reviewed by Politico, DeVos was an officer and has publicly stated she was the chair of the Virginia-based All Children Matter PAC. During her leadership, the PAC broke Ohio election laws which impose donation limits of $10,000 per candidate. Devos violated those limits by funneling $870,000 in national PAC money to state Republican candidates, all of whom pledged to advocate for privatizing public school education through vouchers once elected into office. ‎ ###
01.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 January 29, 2017 Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov Kaptur statement on President Trump’s Executive Order on immigration and refugeesCondemns misguided mandate, invites Trump to meet with refugees who call Ohio home Washington D.C. -- Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statement in light of confusion and hurt emanating from President Donald Trump's Executive Order ‎on immigration and refugees. “In New York harbor, not far from President Donald Trump's office tower stands the awesome Statue of Liberty with Emma Lazarus' immortal words, ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.’ Surely, President Trump has read these words. ‎ “Ancestors of the Trump and Kaptur families both passed through that unforgettable portal as they made their way to America as immigrants. How can we deny to others the gift of freedom bequeathed to us? "I support robust efforts to make America safe and secure. A workable solution should ensure America's safety without destroying our heritage as an immigrant nation, dedicated to liberty and justice for all. “President Trump's mandate will make America less safe. It penalizes worthy individuals and ‎actually gives terrorist cells ammunition to use against America. This mandate puts people at risk who have helped America in our battle against terrorism, at home and abroad. It punishes innocent individuals caught in the crossfire of fleeing terror and tribal conflict. “Dangerously, this misconceived Executive Order will spur anti-American sentiment globally and on the internet, spurring more terrorism, potentially aggravating religious conflict half way around the world. Reckless rhetoric puts our nation at greater risk at home and puts Americans traveling abroad in danger. “I cordially invite the President to northern Ohio to meet personally with some of the people caught in the crossfire fleeing the terror of war and tribal conflict. A well-crafted policy should enshrine liberty for all law-abiding persons while avoiding unintended consequences that can be used by our enemies to enflame terrorism.” ###
01.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.govJanuary 19, 2017 Kaptur Congratulates 2017 U.S. Service Academy Nominees WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) offered congratulations to the students she has nominated or offered as alternates from Ohio’s 9th Congressional District for U.S. service academies entering this fall. She is pictured below with the nominees; Alexander Winschel (Air Force), Patrick Bishop (Navy) and Alec Thompson (Army). Kaptur with (from left to right) Alexander Winschel, Patrick Bishop and Alec Thompson 2017 nominees: US Air Force AcademyAlexander Winschel graduated from Huron High School, May 2015. Alexander is currently attending the University of Toledo. Last year he was selected as an alternate to the principal nominee. US Military AcademyAlec Thompson graduated from Toledo Central Catholic High School, May 2016. Alec is currently attending Heidelberg University. US Naval AcademyPatrick Bishop is a senior at St. John’s Jesuit High School. He is an Eagle Scout, has earned 36 merit badges and three Eagle Palms. Patrick will graduate May 2017. Alternate nominee: Tyler Stepic has been selected to attend the Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS) at Newport, Rhode Island, in the class convening July 2017. Upon completion of the NAPS program with good academic standing, a recommendation from the NAPS Commanding Office and a nomination, he will secure a selection to matriculate with the Naval Academy class of 2022. Tyler is a senior at St. Edward High School in Lakewood. Ellard Stolze has been selected as an Alternate to the Principal Nominee to the U.S. Naval and U.S. Air Force Academy. Ellard’s name is now placed in a national pool where he will compete on the basis of academic standing and extracurricular activities with other young men and women from across the country. Ellard is a senior at Avon Lake High School and will graduate May 2017 Additionally, Kaptur appreciates the input and guidance on these nominees from the Air Force Liaison Officer Lt. Col. Tom Guyton and the Citizen Advisory Committee on Service Academy Nominations. The Committee includes; Chair Lovey Leavell of Sandusky, Tim Cummings of Toledo, and Gil Goldberg of Cleveland. Kaptur with (from left to right) Tim Cummings, Lt. Col. Tom Guyton, Lovey Leavell and Gil Golberg The U.S. Service Academies that require nomination include the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, CT does not require applicants to be nominated. ###
01.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 18, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Rep. David Joyce (OH-14) sent a letter to the incoming administration supporting research into harmful algal blooms (HABs). A bipartisan group of 47 members of Congress signed on to this letter. “Algal blooms cause enormous damage in my home state. Lake Erie is the drinking source for some 11 million people and in 2014, a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without water service for three days. We owe it to people in the region and nationwide to understand the problem and commit to further research,” said Kaptur. “I join Mr. Joyce and 46 of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to urge Mr. Trump’s administration to join us in this commitment. We must do everything possible to learn more about the problem.” “This is about where we swim, where we fish, and most importantly where we draw our drinking water. No matter what part of the country you live in, there is probably a lake, a river, or some body of water near you that will experience some form of harmful algal bloom,” said Joyce. “We need to continue to better understand this problem to help better protect our Great Lakes, which contains 20 percent of the world’s fresh water.” “Toxic algae brought the entire city of Toledo to its knees in 2014 when it contaminated nearly half a million Ohioans’ drinking water. This issue is affecting real people in Ohio and beyond and we need leaders to make sure the full cost - both in terms of people’s health and livelihood - is understood and addressed. We cannot afford to wait any longer as toxic algae is only becoming more prevalent, severe, and toxic,” said Kristy Meyer, Managing Direct, Natural Resources, Ohio Environmental Council. The goal of further research is to minimize the consequences of these events, increase understanding of HABs, the ability to forecast them accurately, and knowledge of the human health impacts associated with them. A copy of the letter can be found here: 1.17.17 Algal bloom research letter.pdf Cosigners: Reps. Beatty, Bergman, Bonamici, Castor, Chaffetz, Conyers, Crist, Curbelo, DeFazio, Deutch, Dingell, Duffy, Esty, Fudge, Gibbs, Higgins (NY), Huizenga, Johnson (OH), Katko, Keating, Kelly (PA), Kilmer, Kind, Langevin, Latta, Lee, Levin, Love, Mast, McCollum, Moulton, Norton, Pingree, Posey, Quigley, Renacci, Ros-Lehtinen, Ryan (OH), Scott (VA), Shea-Porter, Slaughter, Soto, Takano, Welch, and Yarmuth. ###
01.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 14, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov Oregon, Ohio – U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined with Toledo-Lucas County CareNet to urge local consumers who need to change or initiate insurance coverage to take action before January 31st. Kaptur joined CareNet officials at St. Charles Hospital to discuss the important deadline with local citizens and “navigators” who are available to assist individuals and families with Marketplace enrollment or Medicaid applications for healthcare coverage. Navigators provide services at no cost and are not paid for by any insurance carrier. Navigators are trained by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services and licensed by the Ohio Department of Insurance. A new report released this week by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) shows that more than 12.2 million people nationwide were signed up for health insurance either through the Health Insurance Marketplace or their state’s Basic Health Programs. HHS’ report shows that in Ohio, 230,754 people are signed up so far for 2017 Marketplace coverage, more than at the same time last year. The report shows those Ohioans who have already signed up represent a wide spectrum of Ohio consumers including: 123,912 women and 106,187 men 27,903 children, 51,848 adults age 18-34, 71,439 adults age 35-54, and 78,909 over 55 51,869 rural Ohioans 58,039 new and 172,060 returning consumers HHS’ report also underscores the importance of financial assistance for Ohio consumers: 74% of those Ohioans signed up for Marketplace coverage thus far will receive advanced premium tax credits that lower their premiums by an average of $196 per month. “The demand for health coverage continues, as Americans prove that Health Insurance Marketplace coverage is critical to individuals and families” said Kaptur. “The Affordable Care Act has ensured that millions of people can obtain health insurance regardless of gender, age, or pre-existing conditions. No one will lose coverage just because someone in the family got sick and no one can be subject to a lifetime cap on coverage. Children up to the age of 26—or in some cases in Ohio, 28—can remain on parents’ health insurance plans if they have no access to coverage on their own. As many as 22 health screenings are covered at 100%. Older adults covered by Medicare are seeing the Part D private drug plan “donut hole” shrinking until its 2020 closure as a result of provisions under the ACA.” Kaptur urged people without insurance who have not yet signed up to stop by one of CareNet’s navigator assistance sites or visit the website at www.healthcare.gov by Sunday January 15 to ensure coverage by February 1, 2017. Open enrollment continues through January 31, 2017 and CareNet offers a number of navigator locations for people needing assistance signing up for health care coverage. CareNet Assistant Director Julie Grasson encouraged “anyone who needs to obtain individual health insurance may come to St. Charles today until 7 pm to sit down with a navigator who can help you enroll in the best coverage for you. Additionally, there will be navigators at many sites throughout the area until January 31, 2017. Call United Way’s 211 service or the Ohio Association of Foodbanks at 1-800-648-1176 to schedule an appointment.” ###
01.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 11, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) introduced legislation to empower Congress to explicitly deny President-elect Trump consent of acceptance of any and all payments or gifts. The bill, entitled the No Congressional Consent for President Donald J. Trump to Accept Foreign Emoluments of Any Kind Whatsoever Act ensures compliance with the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause. The bill as introduced has more than 30 original cosponsors. Statement from Kaptur: “My bill ensures that Congress upholds the Constitution and protects the Presidency and our government from corruption. Our Founding Fathers identified principles important to the bedrock of our democracy; they included an anticorruption measure known as the Emolument Clause. Its inclusion emphasized their desire to preserve independence from external influence. There is no question this principle should apply to the incoming President, as it has to every other President of our nation. “President-elect Trump has achieved great wealth and his investments span across the United States and dozens of foreign countries. The possibility of hidden influences will eclipse every action and decision Mr. Trump makes. There is no way to be sure of the full depth of Mr. Trump’s conflicts particularly with his continued refusal to release his tax returns, a key component of accountability provided by every President and presidential candidate since Richard Nixon. “The highest ranking employee in the Federal government is not exempt from the Constitution. Congress owes it to the American people to ensure that Constitutional principles are upheld in the interests of liberty. I call on Speaker Paul Ryan to bring our bill to the House Floor for a vote.” Read Kaptur’s full remarks on the matter in an op-ed, published today in The Hill. The op-ed was coauthored by former Indiana Rep. Jill Long Thompson, now an ethics professor at Indiana University. What is the Emolument’s clause and how does it apply to Trump? For more, read a report from the Brookings Institution authored by former Republican and Democratic ethics advisors. ###
01.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 10, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202) 225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) stood with Rep. Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03) and spoke on the House floor demanding that President-elect Donald Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, pay the millions in fines owed to the State of Ohio for breaking campaign finance law. This comes as DeVos confirmation hearing was postponed after Senate Democrats noted that the Office of Government Ethics, which stated it is overwhelmed by vetting Trump’s nominees, had not yet completed its review of DeVos’s financial holdings and potential conflicts of interest. DeVos was chair of the Virginia-based All Children Matter Political Action Committee (PAC). During her leadership, the PAC broke Ohio election laws which impose donation limits of $10,000 per candidate. Devos violated those limits by funneling $870,000 in national PAC money to state Republican candidates, all of whom pledged to advocate for privatizing public school education through vouchers once elected into office. ‎ Excerpts from Kaptur’s remarks: “I demand that the President-elect's Cabinet nominee for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, immediately pay fines she owes to the State of Ohio. These obligations total $5.3 million dollars, in unpaid‎ fines and levied late penalties her political organization owes the state of Ohio for campaign finance violations of Ohio law, the largest fines ever levied in Ohio history, dating back to 2008. “In addition, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, Betsy DeVos gave direct contributions to at least 20 current Members of the Senate. These are the same Senators who will now confirm her for the Secretary of Education position. “The $5.3 million fine that Betsy DeVos' political organization owes to Ohio could pay for better education for Ohio's children, it is outrageous that a candidate for Secretary of Education holds herself above the law and fails to make good on outstanding fines, imposed nearly 10 years ago. “No one is above law. Betsy DeVos' attempt to subvert the law and buy influence is diametrically opposed to everything the President-elect advised was wrong with America. He wants to drain the swamp. I call on President-Elect Trump to hold Betsy DeVos accountable. She should pay her fines to the State of Ohio for the violations her organization committed.” See Kaptur’s full remarks on the House floor here. Additionally, Jeffrey Winters, a political scientist at Northwestern University said of DeVos in the New York Times, “She is the most emblematic kind of oligarchic figure you can put in a cabinet position. What she and the Kochs have in common is the unbridled use of wealth power to achieve whatever political goals they have.” See the list of Ohio Candidates DeVos has donated to: ###
01.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 3, 2017 Contact: Josh Stewart, (202)225-4146 or Joshua.Stewart@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) stood with Democratic House colleagues and AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka and urged aggressive action to protect American workers and to call for renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Statement from Kaptur: “The new President has the right to withdraw from NAFTA on day one, and we want to help the President-elect create a fair trade deal that supports rising wages on all sides of the border. I have fought NAFTA since its inception, recognizing the imbalances its passage foretold and the labor, economic, and environmental abuses it would only exacerbate. We should be doing everything we can to ensure we protect all workers – from the steelworkers in Lorain to the migrant workers picking tomatoes. “The 2016 election was the first time trade was elevated to such a pivotal issue in a presidential election. I look forward to the opportunity to work with the incoming Administration to modernize America’s trade policies, so they result in job gains and market growth for the United States and that support balanced trade accounts instead of a widening gulf of deficits. “A new NAFTA must result in American jobs that rest on our closely held values of ‘Free and Fair Trade among Free People.’ If a renegotiated NAFTA does not end with these results, America must withdraw.” Kaptur is actively involved in defending and fighting for the 21st Century Workers’ Bill of Rights which she urged should be included in any new or updated trade agreements. Click here to watch Kaptur’s full remarks at today’s press conference. Rep. Kaptur on January 3, 2017, with House Democratic colleagues and Richard Trumka, President of the AFL-CIO ###
12.13.2016	HHS Report to House Appropriators Confirms: Rising Prescription Drugs Prices are driving up Federal Health Spending Washington, DC --- U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), author of an amendment to the FY16 Labor HHS, and Education Appropriations Bill that directed HHS and the Veterans Administration to report to Congress with an analysis of the impact of rising prescription drug prices, today made public the long awaited report. Kaptur was joined by her Appropriations colleagues, Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17) and Subcommittee on Labor HHS Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) and Member of the Committee on Ways and Means Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) in releasing the following statement regarding the report: “Prescription Drugs: Innovation, Spending, and Patient Access.” “Prescription drug prices are out of control,” said Rep. Kaptur. “We have a responsibility to ensure all Americans are able to afford the medication they need to stay healthy. This report comes at a pivotal moment, as prescription drug spending is expected to increase 7.3 percent a year through 2018. I urge the Secretaries of Health and Human Services and the Veterans Administration, to embark on a full collaboration to address this national concern, pull back the veil that currently prohibits a full accounting of agency drug expenses, and join in the effort to expose skyrocketing drug costs so that we may better negotiate prices for consumers.” “Rising costs for prescription drugs mean more out-of-pocket costs and more care delayed or deferred, which has an adverse impact on overall health. The federal government must ensure that neither patients nor federal health programs are being gouged for lifesaving medications,” said Ranking Member Lowey. “Every day, we see the threat that spiraling drug prices pose to Medicare, Medicaid, and the other federal health programs,” said Rep. DeLauro. This report shows that spending on prescription drugs is skyrocketing across all the federal health programs. Now is the time for Congress to take action to rein in these excessive prices. That is why I have introduced legislation to create a new interagency review board to regulate excessive drug prices.” Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who co-chairs the House Democratic Caucus Prescription Drug Task Force, said, “Prescription price gouging not only means too many Americans face crushing financial burdens or go without necessary health care; it means that all American taxpayers are paying too much for government drug purchases. Congress faces more than a question of ‘to be or not to be’ on Obamacare. It has to decide whether to do or not to do anything about unsustainable drug spending. Unfortunately, a major shortcoming of the Affordable Care Act is its failure to make prescription drugs affordable. President-elect Trump has promised action and said that he doesn’t like what’s happened with drug prices—now is the time for him to act.” "Prescription drug spending in the United States soared to $457 billion in 2015. Members of Congress have a responsibility to the taxpayers to ensure that funds are wisely spent, and that hardworking Americans are not forced to pay artificially inflated prices for their prescription drugs,” concluded Rep. Kaptur. The HHS report includes an analysis of prescription drug prices (net of rebates) paid by Federal programs for the 10 most frequently prescribed drugs and the 10 highest-cost drugs, dating back to 2003. It also includes an analysis of the annual spending on prescription drugs in the Medicare Part B program, Medicare Part D prescription drug program, and VA health program. While a step in the right direction, the Members urged more information is needed to fully understand the source of rising prescription drug prices and available remedies to protect consumers. The report can be found here: Prescription drug RTC - December 7 2016.pdf
12.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 9, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones, (800) 964-4699 & (202) 225-5411 or Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov Rep. Kaptur Statement on the Passing of Senator John Glenn Washington, DC-Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), the dean of Ohio's delegation to Congress, issued the following statement on news of the passing of Senator John Glenn: May the courageous spirit of Marine Corps Colonel and Senator John Glenn -- a hero beloved to his countrymen and women -- soar through the constellations‎ and galaxies beyond human existence to a place of peace. May his beautiful life- long companion, Annie, and his family take comfort from his love that endures beyond life itself. And may America be strengthened and inspired anew by this explorer from New Concord who not only became the first American to orbit the earth as an astronaut and surveyed the heavens as an extraordinary aviator, but served in the U.S. Marine Corps in combat during World War II and the Korea Conflict and thereafter dedicated a quarter century of service in the U.S. Senate, always with honor. Yes, "Semper Fidelis", dear Patriotic Son of Liberty. Your steady light shines as a beacon drawing us all to a higher calling. May God hold you close for eternity. ###
12.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 8, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones, (800) 964-4699 & (202) 225-5411 or Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov Rep. Kaptur speaks out in defense of U.S. made steel and Midwestern steelworkers Washington, DC-Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today decried a Republican attempt to kill support for using American-made steel in federal infrastructure projects. The following statement came during debate on the Water Infrastructure Investments for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), a bill which authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers’ work to build and maintain the water infrastructure in America, such as maintaining and building damns, locks, levees, and dredging activity in the nation’s navigable waterways. The “Buy America” clause which gives preference to American-made steel for supplying steel for use in Corps' construction projects has historically been a part of these bills (usually named the Water Resources Development Act, or WRDA) but the new legislation would end that provision at the end of the current fiscal year. Republicans in Congress have continued to attack American industry in spite of President-elect Trump’s promises to support American products and the industrial base: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in solidarity, in championing the cause of the steelworkers of our nation, in the industrial heartland, of Lorain, Ohio and Gary, Indiana and Youngstown. Apparently, the Republican Majority was not been paying attention to the recent election because, in fact, Mr. Trump promised that the Buy America Provisions and American steel production would be supportive and primary. And yet, they are proposing to kill the Buy America Provision in this Bill. I urge the majority not to forget the promises your Party made to these proud and strong American workers. I can assure you, they won’t forget and we have to stand up to Chinese dumping that has put out of work thousands and thousands and thousands of workers across this country. Given the woes of the American Steel industry, encouraging more offshoring is unconscionable. Thank you and I yield back – thank you Mr. DeFazio. Rep. Kaptur’s full floor statement during today’s debate on the House floor can be found here. ###
12.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 1, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones, (800) 964-4699 & (202) 225-5411 or Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov Kaptur Heralds White House Announcement of Toledo Acceptance into National TechHire Initiative Washington, DC- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) joined the U.S. Chief Technology Officer to announce that Toledo will be designated as a “TechHire Community” under the White House’s TechHire Initiative. The designation will enhance the greater Toledo region’s connections and investments in technology training and education to the workforce and will help to prepare the workforce of the future for high demand jobs. The TechHire Initiative is a forward-thinking national project focused on expanding local technology sectors by investing in technology training and education. Tech Toledo is one of 19 communities announced today that will join a national network of 70 TechHire Communities in receiving support to spearhead efforts to help overlooked and underrepresented Americans start technology careers and access well-paying tech jobs. “As the birthplace of innovations which have transformed industries such as photovoltaic energy, food processing, glass, and automotive manufacturing, Toledo is a prime location for such a focus on workforce development and technology advancement,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Designation of Toledo as a TechHire Community will better position the region to attract new businesses in innovative manufacturing and information technology, which translates to good paying jobs for our community.” Keith Instone, a co-founder of Tech Toledo, said: “We applied to join the national TechHire network to get access to the best practices and resources other TechHire communities have developed. Our application process took advantage of existing grassroots efforts by companies, training providers, and community organizations. We look forward to helping fill Toledo’s IT talent pipeline.” For more information on the Tech Toledo initiative, please visit: https://www.techhiretoledo.com/. Information on the White House’s TechHire initiative may be found at: https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/technology/techhire. ###
12.01.2016	In Effort to Combat Declining Water Quality in Lake Erie, Dingell & Kaptur Urge EPA to Declare Area Impaired November 29, 2016 Contact: Hannah Smith (Dingell) 202-315-8446 hannah.smith@mail.house.gov Nicole Dailey Jones (Kaptur) 800-964-4699 202-225-5411 Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy urging EPA to list the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired under the terms of the Clean Water Act. The area continues to experience a decline in water quality due to high levels of nutrients that are producing harmful toxic algal blooms, which pose a serious health risk for residents. While Michigan has included Lake Erie on its list of impaired waters submitted to the EPA, Ohio has not. “Ensuring that citizens have clean drinking water is an essential role of government,” Dingell and Kaptur wrote. “One third of the total population of the Great Lakes Basin resides in the Lake Erie watershed, and 11 million people depend on this freshwater resource for their drinking water. Beyond the serious health considerations, the Great Lakes are home to a $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry, which is also threatened by the persistent presence of harmful algal blooms.” “We applaud the State of Michigan for taking this responsible and proactive stance,” the Representatives continued. “Unfortunately, the State of Ohio has chosen not to follow suit, despite clear evidence of Lake Erie’s impairment and the potential risks to human health and safety. An impairment designation for the Western Basin of Lake Erie by Ohio EPA is an essential step in an effective response to managing excessive phosphorous, the root cause of harmful algal blooms. We urge you to use your legal authority under the Clean Water Act to bring Ohio’s list into alignment with the State of Michigan as an important step in addressing this public health threat.” Under the Clean Water Act, states are required to submit lists of impaired waters to EPA’s regional offices each year. These are waters that are too polluted or otherwise degraded to meet water quality standards. The law requires that the states establish priority rankings for waters on the lists and develop Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL), a calculation of the maximum amount of a pollutant that a water body can receive and still safely meet water quality standards. This serves as a starting point for restoration or protection activities. The Representatives’ full letter can be read here and below. Dear Administrator McCarthy: The Western Basin of Lake Erie continues to experience a decline in water quality due to high levels of nutrients that are fueling harmful algal blooms and the toxin they produce. These blooms represent a serious health risk for our constituents. In 2014, nearly half a million citizens in the City of Toledo’s drinking water service area experienced a three day drinking water ban due to high levels of microcystin in the treatment system. USEPA has acknowledged the urgent need for addressing nutrient related toxins in its on-going work with Canada through the bi-national Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement process. Yet, the path to recovery requires additional legal reinforcement through USEPA’s recognition of the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired under the terms of the Clean Water Act. Recently, the State of Michigan stepped up to its responsibilities by recognizing the serious challenges facing Lake Erie. Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality has included the open waters of Western Lake Erie on its Section 303(d) list of impaired waters, as submitted to USEPA. We applaud the State of Michigan for taking this responsible and proactive stance. Unfortunately, the State of Ohio has chosen not to follow suit, despite clear evidence of Lake Erie’s impairment and the potential risks to human health and safety. An impairment designation for the Western Basin of Lake Erie by Ohio EPA is an essential step in an effective response to managing excessive phosphorous, the root cause of harmful algal blooms. We urge you to use your legal authority under the Clean Water Act to bring Ohio’s list into alignment with the State of Michigan as an important step in addressing this public health threat. Ensuring that citizens have clean drinking water is an essential role of government. One third of the total population of the Great Lakes Basin resides in the Lake Erie watershed, and 11 million people depend on this freshwater resource for their drinking water. Beyond the serious health considerations, the Great Lakes are home to a $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry, which is also threatened by the persistent presence of harmful algal blooms. We urge USEPA to fulfill its obligation under the Clean Water Act and to list the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired. We also ask USEPA to provide leadership by coordinating the states’ efforts in the Western Lake Erie Basin to meet the 40 percent phosphorous reduction goals for waters in this region, as reflected in the Annex IV of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement with Canada. Through these actions, USEPA will fulfill its stated mission and legal obligation to protect human health and the environment. Sincerely, ###
11.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 17, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones, (800) 964-4699 & (202) 225-5411 or Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov Kaptur Slams Republican Leaders in Congress for Failing to Pass Critical 2017 Budget and Department Funding Bills Washington, DC- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) responded to the decision of House and Senate Republican leaders to scrap annual Budget and Appropriations bills for the 2017 operating year, which began October 1, 2016. Just like the Republican majority failed to pass its 2017 Budget earlier in the year, now they have defaulted on their responsibilities to provide funding for the federal government for 2017, instead, only extending current operating support for three months, through March 31, 2017 by means of a Continuing Resolution. By failing to pass twelve critical bills that are essential to operating the Departments of the Federal government, Republicans have demonstrated they do not have a working majority to get the nation’s work done. In essence, they have abdicated their Constitutional responsibilities and created great uncertainty in the marketplace. Important contracts for construction will be held up. Defense planners will not be able to execute their objectives effectively. And bills will not be paid in full and on time. Spring contracts for highway and infrastructure improvements will be held up and delayed, costing more money over time. A continuing resolution at 2016 funding levels will have consequences for communities in Ohio, across America, and around the globe. Job growth and America’s defense industrial base will suffer as contracts are further delayed and military leadership is hamstrung to implement strategies that better reflect today’s global threat. Dredging in our Great Lakes and detection, prevention, and mitigation efforts to combat harmful algal blooms will be delayed as another summer bloom approaches. Workers at Portsmouth, Ohio’s nuclear clean-up site may face pink-slips due to insufficient funding. Fewer veterans and homeless Americans will receive housing assistance. How much longer do communities struggling with heroin and opioid addiction have to wait for increased funding for treatment? Thousands of hours were dedicated into negotiations to complete the annual appropriations bills for floor action this year. Our Committee has done its work. These bills reflect the needs and threats facing our nation. To ignore this important work and instead put the government on automatic pilot with programmatic and funding level over two years old means living in the past. Months of bipartisan effort to craft our national spending plan are for naught because Republicans in Congress are choosing to walk off the job. Even as the American people sought change in last week’s election, the very first action Republicans in Congress take when they get back inside the beltway is to deliver more of the same inaction and brinksmanship. What a letdown. # # #
10.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, October 13, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones (Kaptur), (202) 225-4146 & (202) 225-5411 or Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov Kaptur: Director of National Drug Control Policy Designates Lorain County as High Intensity Drug Trafficking AreaDesignation will allow County to receive Federal resources to further drug control efforts among law enforcement officials Lorain, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined the Director of National Drug Control Policy under the Executive Office of the President to announce the designation of 18 additional counties in nine states as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs), including Lorain County, Ohio. Eleven of the counties are in states that are part of the HIDTA Heroin Response Strategy, and this designation enables the newly named 18 counties to receive Federal resources in the future to further the coordination and development of drug control efforts among Federal, state, local and tribal law enforcement officials. “Our communities have been struggling with the heroin epidemic for too long, and this designation for Lorain County is an important step forward in the coordination of efforts to address this public health crisis,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I am pleased the Administration recognizes that the response to this public health crisis isn’t a single-layer issue that will be fixed with one solution. There are pieces that need to come together and we can best do this by listening to the needs and experiences of local communities.” “Being accepted in the HIDTA initiative is extremely positive and important,” said Lorain County Sheriff Phil R. Stammitti. “This allows Lorain County to join forces with our Federal partners and other participating agencies to share resources, personnel and equipment to better enhance joint investigations for the disruption and dismantling of drug trafficking and money laundering organizations.” “The High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program is an important part of this Administration’s work to expand community-based efforts to prevent drug use, pursue ‘smart on crime’ approaches to drug enforcement, work to reduce overdose deaths, increase access to treatment, and support millions of Americans in recovery” said Michael Botticelli, Director of National Drug Control Policy. “To fully address the crisis, however, Congress must act to provide funding to make lifesaving treatment available to everyone who seeks it. The President has called for $1.1 billion in new funding for States to help expand access to treatment. Every day that passes without Congressional action to provide these additional resources is a missed opportunity to save lives.” Rep. Kaptur was a co-sponsor of the of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), and, as a senior appropriator, advocated for increased funds and the inclusion of heroin connected directives to agencies within the purview of the appropriations process. Additionally, as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Rep. Kaptur co-sponsored both comprehensive and narrow efforts to address a range of aspects of the epidemic, including adequate and targeted funding, emergency response, education, and prevention. For information about the Office of National Drug Control Policy visit: www.whitehouse.gov/ONDCP For information on the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program visit: www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/high-intensity-drug-trafficking-areas-program For information on the Lorain County Sheriff’s Office visit: https://www.loraincountysheriff.com/ ###
10.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 11, 2016 Contact: Nicole Dailey Jones, (800) 964-4699 & (202) 225-5411; Marcy.KapturPress@mail.house.gov KAPTUR: IMAGINATION STATION TO RECEIVE OVER $311,000 TO DEVELOP PRESCHOOL STEM LEARNINGTOLEDO, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) delivered word today that Toledo’s Imagination Station will receive $311,676.00 through a competitive award from the Institute of Museum and Library Services’ (IMLS) National Leadership Grants for Museums. The award will enable the hands-on science learning center to develop Prime Time, a preschool network to promote early STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) learning in partnership with a number of local educational facilities. Of sixty applications for National Leadership Grants received by IMLS, Imagination Station was one of only 13 funded. Funds are being awarded through a competitive grant process and will bolster efforts by Imagination Station to help parents, program staff, and volunteers to promote an interest in science and to facilitate research and integration of design features to improve the quality of visitor experience. The project will result in a replicable, scalable model with evaluation findings, videos, and professional development material to help other science centers enhance the STEM education of young children. “It is vitally important that we expose young children to STEM educational opportunities,” said Rep. Kaptur. “We know that investments in early education programs provide significant long-term dividends in a child’s education. The Imagination Station is the perfect facilitator to bring together our regional groups to enhance the STEM education of our youngest citizens. While this specific project focuses on preschoolers, the science center is a vital resource for children and adults of all ages in our region.” “We are so thrilled to be recognized by IMLS,” said Lori Hauser, Imagination Station CEO. “At Imagination Station, we recognize that the preschool years are such an important time for learning. This award will be a great help to us in promoting kindergarten readiness in our community and getting kids excited about science at an early age. Early exposure can inspire children to pursue science and engineering fields.” Local and national partners in the Imagination Station’s effort include the University of Toledo, Toledo-Lucas County Public Library, Polly Fox Academy, Summit YMCA Head Start, ASPIRE, and the Early Learners Collaborative, a national museum-based preschool learning network. Rep. Kaptur is a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has responsibility for the funding of the Institute of Museum and Library Services, an independent, federal agency whose spending limits are established each year in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The Institute of Museum and Library Services serves as the primary source of federal support for the nation’s 123,000 libraries and 35,000 museums. To learn more about the Institute visit www.imls.gov. ###
09.26.2016	TOLEDO, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and officials from The University of Toledo Health Science Campus today announced the receipt of a $3.38 million grant from the National Institute of Health, or NIH to study the mechanisms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. The competitive research grant was awarded to Dr. Xin Wang, PhD, associate professor of psychiatry in the University’s College of Medicine and Life Sciences to study the early development of PTSD in trauma victims. The competitive award supports a comprehensive research study entitled, “Study of early brain alterations that predict development of chronic PTSD,” in the amount of $755,000 for 2016, and a total of 3.38 million over a period of 4.5 years, pending oversight and review of annual congressionally-approved NIH funding levels. The NIH study section that peer-reviewed Wang’s proposal ranked it in the top 4th percentile for ‘major research’ among those competing for mental health research funding. Wang first developed this acute PTSD study in civilian automobile accident victims in 2013 with support from an NIH pilot grant, and his research at UT has drawn attention from national and international PTSD researchers. “This is a very significant development,” said Kaptur, whose advocacy in 2006 on behalf of returning military personnel from Iraq and Afghanistan led to research funds secured for what became known as the Kaptur Combat Mental Health Initiative. The Department of Defense program involved the monitoring of three thousand members of the Ohio National Guard in research coordinated by Case Western University and The University of Toledo. “PTSD will touch all of our lives, either personally or through a loved one, friend or colleague” said Kaptur. “Combat, car accidents, blunt force trauma and contact sports are but a few examples of injuries that can lead to this condition. Dr. Wang’s research could identify and lead to new medical responses for those most likely to suffer from PTSD.” The research will involve trauma patients from the emergency departments of The University of Toledo Medical Center and the ProMedica and Mercy Health Systems. Those who agree to be monitored for a period of a year will be evaluated using non-invasive, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technology. This state-of-the-art diagnostic equipment is only available at the UTMC. “This cutting edge technology is a safe, non-invasive and non-radioactive way to examine the brain for mechanisms of PTSD development after acute trauma,” Wang said. “Patients will be tracked for one year to identify possible changes in the brain that differentiate the PTSD development and normal recovery free of stress symptoms. We hope identify the early changes in brain that occur in the days following a trauma that place a patient at high risk of developing the disorder.” PTSD in civilian population is increasingly recognized as a major mental health problem, with an estimated eight million adults currently suffering from some form of PTSD as a result of a traumatic event. “PTSD can manifest itself in a number of symptoms ranging from nightmares and flashbacks to paranoia, irritability and difficulty concentrating, said Wang. “Patients experiencing PTSD can find it to be relatively minor or totally disruptive to everyday activities. It is our goal to monitor brain changes that occur during the progression of PTSD symptoms to develop future preventative or curative treatments and improve the lives of those who experience a traumatic event.” Kaptur is a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has responsibility for funding and oversight of the National Institutes of Health. For more information on The University of Toledo and Dr. Wang, please contact Rebecca Schwan, Media Relations Specialist, University of Toledo, at 419-383-5376 (o) or 419-388-5145 (cell) ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), today praised the unexpected inclusion in a Senate budget provision that would allow for $37 million in frontloaded spending to address the heroin and opioid epidemic. The provision is included in the Senate’s version of the Continuing Resolution, or CR, which must pass Congress before October 1st to keep the federal government open. The CR provision, entitled “Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) Implementation,” is a section that “provides through the duration of the Continuing Resolution a higher rate of operations for the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services to begin implementation of CARA, and directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to implement that Act using FY 2017 funds.” The provision will allow the Justice Department, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to begin to spend available funds made possible by the enactment of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, which passed Congress and was signed into law in July, 2016. Otherwise, without this provision, the three departments and its frontline agencies would be forced to wait until a comprehensive budget agreement is reached, hopefully in December, to begin to support local treatment programs and local law enforcement agencies. According to a report this afternoon from Congressional Quarterly: “The GOP continuing resolution unveiled Thursday includes money needed to jump-start efforts authorized by a new opioid law (PL 114-198). The Senate measure would allow the Health and Human Services and Justice departments to start work on select new initiatives, something usually barred by CRs. HHS would be able to immediately start spending funds that, if annualized, would total $17 million. Similarly, Justice could begin spending funds that would total $20 million on an annualized rate for programs authorized by the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, known as CARA, according to the text of the CR. Most other federal programs will be stuck in budget limbo under the CR, with their spending rates slightly below the current level.” While non-comital on the merits of the overall Senate budget proposal, given early news accounts, Kaptur was sanguine about the additional funding on the heroin and opioid programs: “We must pursue every opportunity to address this epidemic with more treatment funds,” she said. “This epidemic will only get worse, from what medical professionals and law enforcement officials in northern Ohio tell me. This is a positive step.” The provision may be found on page two, here: https://www.appropriations.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/092216-CR-FY17-Section-By-Section.pdf Last week Kaptur leveraged her experience as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and an active member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, to lead a bipartisan coalition of 38 House Members to pressure for additional addiction treatment funds to be included in the short term budget deal being negotiated between the House and Senate to fund the government past the end of September. Kaptur spearheaded the effort with her colleagues, all of whom are from congressional districts facing a growing epidemic of heroin and opioid abuse, to send the letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to request a special exception to allow additional and adjusted funds to “address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts.” By the end of September Congress must consider a ‘continuing resolution,’ often referred to as a ‘CR,’ to keep the federal government operating beyond the statutory deadline of October 1. Kaptur realized that continuing funding levels for programs at last year’s levels and without adjusting funding for programs created under the new law passed over the summer, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, failed to realistically address the growing and urgent need for desperately affected communities. The bipartisan House letter requests ‘budget anomalies,’ which would allow federal agencies to adjust funds to programs not reflected in last year’s funding bill and, therefore, not be reflected under a continuing resolution: “Recognizing American lives hang in the balance, we request consideration for appropriation anomalies in negotiations of a continuing resolution that reflect the advances made in the FY17 subcommittee bills, which address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts. Funding as appropriated in FY16 simply does not reflect the current intent of Congress or come close to addressing the life-saving needs of our communities.” Without Kaptur’s effort for a provision that allows for a redirecting of funds, federal agencies will be limited to prior year funding levels and programs. In July Congress overwhelmingly passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which takes important steps toward addressing the opioid epidemic by creating new federal programs, such as research and new data collection methods, and continuing treatment programs. Unfortunately, CARA did not include emergency funding to support those on the frontlines addressing the opioid addiction crisis. Said Kaptur in July 2016 on the CARA legislation’s passage: “The bipartisan passage of CARA is certainly a positive step, and I supported it given that the alternative is to do nothing. But let’s not oversell it as a panacea to the heroin and opioid epidemic. It is not. Unlike other legislative responses to similar national emergencies, CARA contains no emergency funds, which can be spent right away. That delays funding for months, perhaps years. People are overdosing every day, communities need money now.” The bipartisan letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi addresses the funding shortage: “the House Appropriations Committee reflected many of the advances developed in CARA that address needed heroin and opioid funding changes in several of the FY17 subcommittee bills reported out of Committee. However, these funding adjustments will not be reflected in a continuing resolution, whether short or long-term, hamstringing our national response for Americans suffering and dying from heroin and opioid addiction. Congress’ inability to finish the appropriations process threatens to leave embattled communities without the funding and assistance they need to save lives.” Some federal funds, previously appropriated, are finally being distributed. Three weeks ago, Ohio was selected by two health-related agencies, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) and the Center for Disease Control (CDC), which both focus on opioid misuse and overdoses, for three separate programs to receive nearly $2 million out of $53 million to “improve access to treatment for opioid use disorders, reduce opioid related deaths, and strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts. In addition, funding will also support improved data collection and analysis around opioid misuse and overdose as well as better tracking of fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses.” In Ohio, deaths and overdoses from heroin and opioids have reached epidemic proportions. According to data released by the Ohio Department of Health, opioid overdoses killed a record 3,050 people in Ohio in 2015, more than one-third of them from fentanyl, a super-potent opiate often mixed with heroin. When the data includes heroin and opioids, Cuyahoga County has seen 1,386 people die from overdoses between 2010 to 2015. Deaths in 2016 are expected to exceed 500 in number, nearly double the total from 2015, according to William Denihan, the chief executive officer of the Cuyahoga County Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board. Earlier this month Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner Thomas Gilson reported a record 52 fatal overdoses attributed to either heroin or fentanyl occurred in the month of August. The total was the highest of any month in 2016, putting the county on track to have roughly 500 people die from the drugs, twice the 2015 overdose numbers. In Lucas County roughly 3,000 reported non-fatal overdoses occurred in 2015, according to law enforcement sources. There were 215 heroin- and opioid-related deaths in 2015 in the 19 northwest Ohio counties and Branch and Hillsdale counties in Michigan for which the Lucas County Coroner’s Office performs autopsies. In 2016 the overdose death rate is up about 15 percent, with a projected annual death rate of roughly 250 heroin- and opioid-related deaths by the end of 2016. ###
09.21.2016	THOMAS EDISON STATUE UNVEILING Father Conroy, Chaplain Black, fellow Members of the Ohio Congressional delegation, Senator Brown, Senator Portman, Majority Leader McConnell, Leader Pelosi, Speaker Ryan, and all assembled here today: what an honor it is to celebrate the legacy of Thomas Alva Edison, a native Ohioan, as we unveil his statue in the United States Capitol. Please let me extend a Buckeye welcome to the Ohioans joining us, as well as profound thanks to all the many dear individuals whose efforts bring us to this moment. Considered one of America’s greatest inventors, the life and legacy of Thomas Edison lives large among us today. Edison believed “What you are will show in what you do.” Thomas Edison was the youngest of seven children, born in a small brick home with a white picket fence in 1847 in Milan, Ohio – a small town then in Northern Ohio that I have had the privilege of representing as does Rep. Jim Jordan now. Edison’s early life was not the storybook character you might envision. Edison faced early hardships -- his teachers said he was "too stupid to learn anything.” In fact, he had a hearing problem resulting from a bout of scarlet fever. Thus, he was largely homeschooled by his mother Nancy. Later, he failed his first college entrance exam, and became essentially self-taught. Edison was fired from his first two jobs for being "non-productive.” Yet this genius of a human being managed to achieve 1,093 patents to his name. “Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in overalls and looks like work,” Edison once observed. And work he did. He founded 14 companies, including General Electric, still one of the largest publicly-traded companies worldwide. America’s greatest inventor introduced the world to the lightbulb, power utilities, sound recording, motion pictures – all of which established new industries worldwide. Other breakthroughs included the phonograph, the telegraph, and storage batteries. Still more inventions including the stock ticker, a battery for an electric car, cement, the tattoo gun, the magnetic iron ore separator. Thomas Edison even invented the first version of the electronic-vote counter for legislative bodies like Congress. Edison declared: “Our greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time”. How inspiring those words of Thomas Edison’s remain today. America never succeeded by thinking small. America never thrived by giving up. Thomas Alva Edison always thought big, delivered big, and he always tried just one more time. His genius moved America forward as the oldest democratic republic on earth despite being a young nation as nations go, and still the largest and most dynamic economy in the world. Let us follow his example.
09.19.2016	LORAIN, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), along with representatives of the Smithsonian Museum, the Ohio Commission on Hispanic and Latino Affairs, the Lorain Historical Society and the Lorain Arts Council, will present the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian award, to Miquel Berlingeri, Carlos Montes, Julio Santiago-Montanez, and Francisco Colon, four members of the U.S. Army’s 65th Infantry Regiment in recognition of their pioneering military service. The 65th Infantry Regiment was the first segregated Hispanic military unit and the first unit of the Korean War to receive such distinction, which was awarded to “The Borinqueneers” in April of this year. Congresswoman Kaptur was a co-sponsor of the legislation to honor The Borinqueneers with a Congressional Gold Medal, HR 1726. Nicknamed “The Borinqueneers” from the original Taíno name of the island (Borinquen), was a segregated Puerto Rican regiment of the U.S. Army. The 65th Infantry Regiment – which was created when Puerto Rico became a US Territory in 1898 after the Spanish American War – participated in World War I, World War II and the Korean War. The medal is held by the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History for long-term preservation but is on loan from the Smithsonian and will be on display in Lorain, Ohio for this very special occasion. The Borinqueneers join a small list receiving this honor. Others include: Tuskegee Airmen; Women Airforce Service Pilots; The Monuments Men, Native American Code Talkers, Nisei Japanese American soldier medal. Kaptur worked closely with the Smithsonian to arrange for the Congressional Gold Medal to be on display in Lorain on Monday. Prior to the medal’s presence in Lorain it was on display in Puerto Rico, and on Tuesday will return to the Smithsonian Museum in Washington, DC. During the regiment’s long history since the first shots of World War I to the end of the Korean War, more than 100,000 Borinqueneers have distinguished themselves as true American war heroes. The motto of the Borinqueneers is “Honor Et Fidelitas,” which is Latin for “Honor and Fidelity.” There are less than 1,000 known living Borinqueneers. During the Korean War, the Borinqueneers faced discrimination while, where they had to use separate facilities and risked punishment if caught speaking Spanish. The soldiers earned numerous awards for their notable service, including one Medal of Honor, nine Distinguished Service Crosses, approximately 250 silver stars and more than 2,700 Purple Hearts. The 65th Infantry Regiment was the last segregated regiment in combat and their sacrifices led to the complete integration of the U.S. military. The Fighting Borinqueneers achieved glory in February 1951 when they charged Chinese positions with bayonets fixed, opening an escape route for U.S. Marines who had been trapped near the Chosin Reservoir. Lorain has the highest percentage of Puerto Ricans of any city west of the Appalachian Mountains, and Puerto Ricans make up nearly 20 percent of Lorain's overall population. Lorain was also home to the late Navy Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King, another military recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal. What: Honor Ceremony and Presentation of the (actual) Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian award, was presented to the U.S. Army’s 65th Infantry Regiment in recognition of its pioneering military service, devotion to duty and many acts of valor Who: Northern Ohio’s four living “Borinqueneers”, who served in the 65th Army Infantry Regiment during Korean War. Miquel Berlingeri, Carlos Montes, Julio Santiago-Montanez, Francisco Colon When: Monday, September 19, 2016 at 1 pm OPEN PRESS Where: Lorain Historical Society, Carnegie Library, 329 W. 10th Street, Lorain OH 44052 Background: The Borinqueneers video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x1Lin7yNSoQ Video of 65th Infantry &amp;quot;A Regiment Of Heroes&amp;quot; English PBS Documentary: https://borinqueneers.com/film Congressional Gold Medal coverage (in Spanish):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4xaeH44YoQ Video of Borinqueneers Finally Get Place In History, Unit Receives Congressional Gold Medal
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Science Foundation (NSF) to announce the award of $224,937 to The University of Toledo for a three-year project to explore a sustainable treatment approach to the threat of drinking water supplies as a result of increased harmful algal blooms. The project is titled “Engineering Biofilm Dynamics for Cyanotoxins in Biological Water Treatment,” is part of a Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) award that begins this month and extends through 2019. “There could not be a more timely and more important research project to award than this,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Lake Erie is under constant threat of toxic algal blooms, and we need to find a more sustainable way to treat the water. Our entire region – our economic future and our livelihood relies on ongoing research such as this at The University of Toledo. Dr. Youngwoo Seo, University of Toledo Associate Professor in the Departments of Civil Engineering and Chemical & Environment Engineering, and the principal investigator for the project, views this research funding to find a long-term solution to remove the toxins from harmful algal blooms in the public’s drinking water sources. “To protect the public from emerging contaminants like cyanotoxins in drinking water sources, various advanced water treatment processes are considered,” Seo said. “However, these processes commonly require high energy demand and operation cost with proper waste management. This project is exploring a sustainable treatment approach using bacterially active filters to remove toxins from harmful algal blooms.” The National Science Foundation (NSF) supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. According to the NSF: “Threats to drinking water supplies as a result of increased frequency and duration of harmful algal blooms has been on the rise nationally and globally, for example the Lake Erie cyanobacteria bloom. To protect the public from emerging contaminants like cyanotoxins in drinking water sources, various advanced water treatment processes are considered and adopted by water utilities. This project is exploring a sustainable treatment approach using bacterially active filters to remove harmful algal bloom toxins and other chemicals of emerging concern as the first step in drinking water treatment. However, biological filtration systems for emerging contaminants are not well adopted as they commonly show either low or unmaintained biofilm activities for target pollutants. To enhance the performance of biological filtration systems, bioaugmentation and bio-stimulation were considered, but still regarded as uncontrollable as engineering approaches for consistent results. Accordingly, systematic studies are greatly needed to understand and control biofilm dynamics in biological filtration systems for emerging contaminants. The principal research objectives of this study are: 1) to understand the composition, activity and dynamics of biofilm community and their impact on the effectiveness of biological filtration systems in cyanotoxin removal, and, 2) to provide optimum operational parameters and monitoring tools for effective biological filtration systems operations under the pressure of source water contaminated with harmful algal bloom organisms. Research emphasis will be placed on understanding how the bacterial biofilm formation and activity, can be enhanced and maintained by engineered approaches such as bioaugmentation and bio-stimulation in order to improve performances of biological filtration systems for cyanotoxin removal. Specific objectives and hypotheses proposed are: 1) To understand the degradation dynamics (adaptation and evolution) of cyanobacteria toxin degrading bacteria for bioaugmentation or bio-stimulation applications. Hypothesis: The concentration variation of cyanotoxins and the presence of other natural organic matter and nutrients in water will affect the community and function of cyanotoxin degrading bacteria. 2) To investigate surface interactions between bioaugmented bacteria and indigenous biofilm formed on filter media (physical, chemical, and biologically mediated interactions by microbial biofilms). Hypothesis: The formation of biofilm(s) may affect not only hydrodynamics and physical properties (e.g. effective size of media) of biological filtration systems, but also the adhesion and growth of bioaugmented bacteria in biological filtration systems. 3) To determine the impact of filter operational parameters on biofilm formation, growth, and subsequent degradation of cyanotoxins in biological filtration systems. Hypothesis: Optimized operational parameters of biological filtration systems (backwashing frequency and intensity, filtration rate, and bio-stimulation) can be obtained to address various environmental factors. In addition, the proposed project will provide training and education for three graduate students as well as summer research opportunities for undergraduate and high school students. Furthermore, research findings will be introduced in PIs' outreach and service activities, for example, educational programs for under-represented K-12 students and public outreach via Lake Erie Center.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Science Foundation. Background: The National Science Foundation announcement: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1605185 To contact the National Science Foundation on this award contact: (703) 292-8070 For background on Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) through the NSF: https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2012/nsf12513/nsf12513.htm For background on UT Professor Youngwoo Seo: https://www.eng.utoledo.edu/civil/seo/seo.htm For background on The University of Toledo: www.utoledo.edu Toledo Blade article, “Researcher at UT gets grant to study algal toxin filtration”: https://www.toledoblade.com/local/2016/09/15/Researcher-at-University-of-Toledo-gets-grant-to-study-algal-toxin-filtration.html ###
09.15.2016	LORAIN, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), along with representatives of the Smithsonian Museum, the Ohio Commission on Hispanic and Latino Affairs, the Lorain Historical Society and the Lorain Arts Council, will present the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian award, to Miquel Berlingeri, Carlos Montes, Julio Santiago-Montanez, and Francisco Colon, four members of the U.S. Army’s 65th Infantry Regiment in recognition of their pioneering military service. The 65th Infantry Regiment was the first segregated Hispanic military unit and the first unit of the Korean War to receive such distinction, which was awarded to “The Borinqueneers” in April of this year. Congresswoman Kaptur was a co-sponsor of the legislation to honor The Borinqueneers with a Congressional Gold Medal, HR 1726. Nicknamed “The Borinqueneers” from the original Taíno name of the island (Borinquen), was a segregated Puerto Rican regiment of the U.S. Army. The 65th Infantry Regiment – which was created when Puerto Rico became a US Territory in 1898 after the Spanish American War – participated in World War I, World War II and the Korean War. The medal is held by the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History for long-term preservation but is on loan from the Smithsonian and will be on display in Lorain, Ohio for this very special occasion. The Borinqueneers join a small list receiving this honor. Others include: Tuskegee Airmen; Women Airforce Service Pilots; The Monuments Men, Native American Code Talkers, Nisei Japanese American soldier medal. Kaptur worked closely with the Smithsonian to arrange for the Congressional Gold Medal to be on display in Lorain on Monday. Prior to the medal’s presence in Lorain it was on display in Puerto Rico, and on Tuesday will return to the Smithsonian Museum in Washington, DC. During the regiment’s long history since the first shots of World War I to the end of the Korean War, more than 100,000 Borinqueneers have distinguished themselves as true American war heroes. The motto of the Borinqueneers is “Honor Et Fidelitas,” which is Latin for “Honor and Fidelity.” There are less than 1,000 known living Borinqueneers. During the Korean War, the Borinqueneers faced discrimination while, where they had to use separate facilities and risked punishment if caught speaking Spanish. The soldiers earned numerous awards for their notable service, including one Medal of Honor, nine Distinguished Service Crosses, approximately 250 silver stars and more than 2,700 Purple Hearts. The 65th Infantry Regiment was the last segregated regiment in combat and their sacrifices led to the complete integration of the U.S. military. The Fighting Borinqueneers achieved glory in February 1951 when they charged Chinese positions with bayonets fixed, opening an escape route for U.S. Marines who had been trapped near the Chosin Reservoir. Lorain has the highest percentage of Puerto Ricans of any city west of the Appalachian Mountains, and Puerto Ricans make up nearly 20 percent of Lorain's overall population. Lorain was also home to the late Navy Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King, another military recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal. What: Honor Ceremony and Presentation of the (actual) Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian award, was presented to the U.S. Army’s 65th Infantry Regiment in recognition of its pioneering military service, devotion to duty and many acts of valor Who: Northern Ohio’s four living “Borinqueneers”, who served in the 65th Army Infantry Regiment during Korean War. Miquel Berlingeri, Carlos Montes, Julio Santiago-Montanez, Francisco Colon When: Monday, September 19, 2016 at 1 pm OPEN PRESS Where: Lorain Historical Society, Carnegie Library, 329 W. 10th Street, Lorain OH 44052 Background: The Borinqueneers video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x1Lin7yNSoQ PBS Documentary: https://borinqueneers.com/film Congressional Gold Medal coverage (in Spanish): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4xaeH44YoQ ###
09.14.2016	Bipartisan Coalition Pushes for Additional and Adjusted Funds For Addiction Treatment in Short Term Budget Deal Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), leveraged her experience as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and an active member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, this week and led a bipartisan coalition of 38 House Members to pressure for additional addiction treatment funds to be included in the short term budget deal being negotiated between the House and Senate to fund the government past the end of September. Kaptur spearheaded the effort with her colleagues, all of whom are from congressional districts facing a growing epidemic of heroin and opioid abuse, to send a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to request a special exception to allow additional and adjusted funds to “address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts.” A copy of the bipartisan letter is attached. By the end of the month Congress must consider a ‘continuing resolution,’ often referred to as a ‘CR,’ to keep the federal government operating beyond the statutory deadline of October 1. Kaptur realized that continuing funding levels for programs at last year’s levels and without adjusting funding for programs created under the new law passed over the summer, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, was a failure to address the growing and urgent need for desperately affected communities. The bipartisan House letter requests ‘budget anomalies,’ which would allow federal agencies to adjust funds to programs not reflected in last year’s funding bill and, therefore, not be reflected under a continuing resolution: “Recognizing American lives hang in the balance, we request consideration for appropriation anomalies in negotiations of a continuing resolution that reflect the advances made in the FY17 subcommittee bills, which address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts. Funding as appropriated in FY16 simply does not reflect the current intent of Congress or come close to addressing the life-saving needs of our communities.” Without Kaptur’s effort for a provision that allows for a redirecting of funds, federal agencies will be limited to prior year funding levels and programs. “We cannot afford to needlessly delay, to not pursue every opportunity to address this epidemic with appropriate treatment funds,” said Kaptur. “This epidemic will get worse, from what medical professionals and law enforcement officials in northern Ohio tell me. There’s no excuse for Congress to not provide more funds, and faster. We cannot afford to wait.” In July Congress overwhelmingly passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which takes important steps toward addressing the opioid epidemic by creating new federal programs, such as research and new data collection methods, and continuing treatment programs. Unfortunately, CARA did not include emergency funding to support those on the frontlines addressing the opioid addiction crisis. Said Kaptur in July 2016 on the CARA legislation’s passage: “The bipartisan passage of CARA is certainly a positive step, and I supported it given that the alternative is to do nothing. But let’s not oversell it as a panacea to the heroin and opioid epidemic. It is not. Unlike other legislative responses to similar national emergencies, CARA contains no emergency funds, which can be spent right away. That delays funding for months, perhaps years. People are overdosing every day, communities need money now.” The bipartisan letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi addresses the funding shortage: “the House Appropriations Committee reflected many of the advances developed in CARA that address needed heroin and opioid funding changes in several of the FY17 subcommittee bills reported out of Committee. However, these funding adjustments will not be reflected in a continuing resolution, whether short or long-term, hamstringing our national response for Americans suffering and dying from heroin and opioid addiction. Congress’ inability to finish the appropriations process threatens to leave embattled communities without the funding and assistance they need to save lives.” Some federal funds, previously appropriated, are finally being distributed. Two weeks ago, Ohio was selected by two health-related agencies, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) and the Center for Disease Control (CDC), which both focus on opioid misuse and overdoses, for three separate programs to receive nearly $2 million out of $53 million to “improve access to treatment for opioid use disorders, reduce opioid related deaths, and strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts. In addition, funding will also support improved data collection and analysis around opioid misuse and overdose as well as better tracking of fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses.” In Ohio, deaths and overdoses from heroin and opioids have reached epidemic proportions. According to data released by the Ohio Department of Health, opioid overdoses killed a record 3,050 people in Ohio in 2015, more than one-third of them from fentanyl, a super-potent opiate often mixed with heroin. When the data includes heroin and opioids, Cuyahoga County has seen 1,386 people die from overdoses between 2010 to 2015. Deaths in 2016 are expected to exceed 500 in number, nearly double the total from 2015, according to William Denihan, the chief executive officer of the Cuyahoga County Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board. Earlier this month Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner Thomas Gilson reported a record 52 fatal overdoses attributed to either heroin or fentanyl occurred in the month of August. The total was the highest of any month in 2016, putting the county on track to have roughly 500 people die from the drugs, twice the 2015 overdose numbers. In Lucas County roughly 3,000 reported non-fatal overdoses occurred in 2015, according to law enforcement sources. There were 215 heroin- and opioid-related deaths in 2015 in the 19 northwest Ohio counties and Branch and Hillsdale counties in Michigan for which the Lucas County Coroner’s Office performs autopsies. In 2016 the overdose death rate is up about 15 percent, with a projected annual death rate of roughly 250 heroin- and opioid-related deaths by the end of 2016. ###
09.12.2016	-- Program Provides Transit Vouchers for Pre-Natal and Well-Baby Visits -- Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined the Department of Transportation to announce that the Ohio Department of Transportation will receive $133,000 to fund the “Mommy and Me Ride for Free” program on behalf of the Hospital Council of Northwest Ohio. The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Transit Administration, an agency within the Department of Transportation. This project was selected to receive funding under the FY2016 Pilot Program for Innovative Coordinated Access & Mobility (Rides to Wellness) competition. From the grant award announcement: “The project, which improves coordination and access in Lucas County by leveraging existing transportation options, will provide pregnant women and women with infants access to transportation. Using the TARPS and TARTA transit systems, women will increase their access to healthcare, leading to better birth outcomes and improved health status for both mother and baby.” “This addresses an immediate need in the Toledo area to expand access to pre-natal and well-baby care for young mothers,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The costs of transportation can often be a primary barrier to accessing important health care visits for expecting moms and mothers with newborns, infants and young children. I am pleased the Hospital Council, the Toledo Area Regional Transportation Authority, and Toledo Area Regional Paratransit Service have sought a collaborative solution to address this need. In August 2016, Kaiser Health News, a leading health care journal, reported on a 2013 analysis of 25 studies which found that 10 to 51 percent of patients reported that lack of transportation is a barrier to health care access. One of those studies showed that 82 percent of those who kept their appointments had access to cars, while 58 percent of those who did not keep appointments had that access. Another study reported bus users were twice as likely to skip on appointments compared to car users. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, which funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Transportation. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=ffylobhiti Background on the Hospital Council of Northwest Ohio: https://www.hcno.org/health-improvement-initiatives/lucas-county-foundation.html Kaiser Health News article cited above: https://www.leadertelegram.com/Features/2016/08/31/Ride-options.html Background on the Toledo Area Regional Transportation Authority (TARTA): https://tarta.com/services/tarps/
09.12.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined with the Federal Aviation Agency, or FAA, to announce that Cleveland Hopkins International Airport will receive an additional $8 million in airport improvement funds. Specifically, the funds are to construct a 124,200 square foot building to house new and replacement snow removal equipment purchased with a separate $7.1 million FAA grant award made in July 2016. The funds intended for construction and the housing of the new and replacement snow removal equipment are timely, as Cleveland Hopkins’ need to improve its snow removal practices has been a priority of both Congresswoman Kaptur and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “These funds will give Cleveland Hopkins additional resources to prepare for snow conditions for the foreseeable future,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. “The new construction will extend the lifespan of the new and replacement snow removal equipment recently purchased with other funds. It’s very timely, given the importance of Cleveland Hopkins to the economy, creating jobs, and the quality of life of the entire northcoast Ohio region.” The FAA informed Congresswoman Kaptur late this afternoon of the $8 million grant: This grant will provide federal funding for the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport in Ohio. • This project will fund the construction of a 124,200 square foot snow removal equipment building to extend the life of the equipment by protecting it from adverse weather conditions. • Cleveland Hopkins International Airport is a medium-hub primary airport associated with Cleveland, Ohio. • The local point of contact is Mr. Fred Szabo, Interim Director of Cleveland Airports. Background: Source: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=kt9no4hvw3 To contact Mr. Fred Szabo, Interim Director of Cleveland Airports: (216) 265-6000. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined the Department of Transportation to announce that the Ottawa County Transportation Agency (OCTA) will receive part of an award of $6,691,634 made to the Ohio Department of Transportation. The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Transit Administration, an agency within the Department of Transportation. The award allows the public transportation systems in rural communities, including Ottawa County, to purchase replacement vehicles. Ottawa County is one of thirty-five counties in Ohio to qualify for a share of these funds, and county officials will determine where the funds will be directed within its jurisdiction. Kaptur, a supporter of OCTA and its efforts throughout the region, intends to press the Ohio Department of Transportation to ensure that Ottawa County receives its fair share of the statewide award to update its fleet.” “The role of public transportation is often associated with large cities, but it’s even more important to smaller, more rural communities, including those in Ottawa County,” said Kaptur. “These funds are an investment in a good quality of life and a better standard of living.” From the Department of Transportation announcement: “The Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities program (49 U.S.C. 5339) makes federal resources available to states and directs recipients to replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment and to construct bus-related facilities including technological changes or innovations to modify low or no emission vehicles or facilities. Funding is provided through formula allocations and competitive grants. A sub-program provides competitive grants for bus and bus facility projects that support low and zero-emission vehicles.” Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, which funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Transportation. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=2urxpc5y9u Background on the Ottawa County Transportation Agency (OCTA): https://www.octapublictransit.org/ ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Science Foundation (NSF) to announce the award of $210,000 to The University of Toledo for a three-year project to build on the recent success of quantum defect theories for atom-atom and ion-atom interactions. The annual award of $70,000 for the project titled "Quantum Theories of Fundamental Atomic and Molecular Interactions” begins this month and extends through 2019, with an annual review. The research project intends to develop better models for many-atom systems, and to extend them to other fundamental atomic interactions such as the electron-atom interaction. “Admittedly I’m not one to fully understand the meaning of the terms ‘quantum defect theories’ or ‘anisotropic interactions,’” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “But I do understand that The University of Toledo has an excellent faculty, many of whom are engaged in fascinating and groundbreaking research. Given the competition for funds from the National Science Foundation, this is another indication that The University of Toledo is a highly-respected institution, with an exciting future.” Bo Gao, UT physics professor and project leader, is eager to use this research funding to make new advances in understanding how atoms and molecules interact. “We need much more investments in both the research and the education of fundamental atomic and molecular physics to bring about future revolutions in science, including those in biology and medicine,” Gao said. According to the NSF grant, the researcher also will “take initial steps towards the developments of quantum defect theories for anisotropic interactions, such as the atom-molecule interaction, with the ultimate goal of achieving a unified and an efficient framework for all aspects of atomic and molecular structures and interactions.” The National Science Foundation (NSF) supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. According to the NSF: “This project is focused on improved theoretical descriptions of the interactions between atoms and/or molecules over a broad range of energy. These elementary interactions are the essential ingredients for the study of quantum many-body systems throughout physics and chemistry, and, increasingly, in biology and the life-sciences as well. In most applications of quantum mechanics to complex many-body systems, the pairwise interactions between atoms and/or molecules are approximated with simple analytical forms dictated by practicality and expedience, but which neglect essential physics. Better representations of these interactions through accurate, first-principle calculations, by contrast, are simply too complicated to incorporate into many-body studies. This project is part of an effort to resolve this conundrum and to develop quantum theories of fundamental atomic interactions that are both sufficiently simple and systematic to be incorporated into quantum many-body theories, and simultaneously accurate enough to capture all the essential physics. The degree to which this can be accomplished may well determine the relevance of theoretical models and simulations of many-body systems to real-world experimental observations. The project builds on the recent success of quantum defect theories for atom-atom and ion-atom interactions. It intends both to apply them to develop better models for many-atom systems, and to extend them to other fundamental atomic interactions such as the electron-atom interaction. Quantum defect theories are general theories of structures and interactions that take advantage of the fact that over most energy ranges of interest, the complexities in atomic interactions, such as their energy and partial wave dependences, are due almost entirely to the long-range interaction, which makes them amenable to systematic and often analytic treatment. The project also intends to take initial steps towards the developments of quantum defect theories for anisotropic interactions, such as the atom-molecule interaction, with the ultimate goal of achieving a unified and an efficient framework for all aspects of atomic and molecular structures and interactions.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Science Foundation. Background: The National Science Foundation announcement: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1607256 For background on the NSF’s Mathematical and Physics Division: https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=phy To contact the National Science Foundation on this award contact: (703) 292-8070. For background on UT Physics Professor Bo Gao: https://bgaowww.physics.utoledo.edu/ For background on The University of Toledo: ###
09.06.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Berea Fire Department has secured $45,291 in a competitive grant award under the Operations and Safety category. The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, in coordination with the US Fire Administration. The award supports projects that include professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. “Given the level of competition for such a FEMA grant, we congratulate the City of Berea’s Fire Department on this important federal award,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Many fire departments throughout the Country apply for these funds, and the Berea Fire Department has made a convincing case that it is wise to invest in the training and equipment that will assist their fire personnel so they can continue the high-level of protection the residents of Berea deserve.” "Berea is a somewhat older, inner- circle, land- restricted, suburban community with an ever-enlarging senior citizen population,” said Berea Fire Chief Mark A. Kaufhold. “Mayor Kleem, his Administration and Berea City Council continue to meet the challenges of instilling community improvements while still providing all the expected city services to Berea’s citizens. Captain Eisenhardt, a 24 year Berea Fire Veteran and life-long Berea resident, has worked many hours in an effort to acquire available federal funds to assist Berea in meeting its constant emergency response challenges, and we appreciate Congresswoman Kaptur’s continued support for her constituents. Along with creative City Administration programs and initiatives to make Berea an always- improving community, these federal dollars will definitely be put to good use in assisting Berea Fire to provide the continued emergency services that Berea residents have come to expect, while operating in a continued safe manner." Competition for the ‘Assistance to Firefighter Grants’ under the category of operations and safety is fierce, involving many thousands of fire departments nationally, and the grants are commonly awarded in amounts below $100,000. FEMA is an agency within the federal Department of Homeland Security. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, and serves on the subcommittee that funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Homeland Security. For more information: Background on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program: https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program Berea Fire Department: https://cityofberea.org/en-us/fire.aspx ###
09.02.2016	On this Labor Day weekend, we salute the hard-working men and women of labor who build America going forward -- those who get up early before the sun rises, and those who work late into the night. The dedicated men and women whose work is all too often overlooked and unheralded, but who work hard and play by the rules, and deserve a reasonable living wage, a safe and clean workplace, and earned retirement security. They are the living fabric of the American economy and of our future prosperity. They build the skyscrapers, forge the steel, assemble our vehicles and home appliances, power our homes and workplaces, heal the sick and treat the infirmed, protect and serve our citizenry, transport and deliver America, till and sow the fields to feed a hungry nation. They have all been knocked down a time or two, often unexpected and undeserved, but they know the most important thing is to get back up. Take a moment this weekend to keep them in your thoughts. Honor them, praise them. And if you have the chance, reach out to those who are at work this weekend and tell them how much you appreciate their efforts, and that their work adds value to our communal well-being. A few meaningful words can change someone’s entire day.
09.01.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined the Department of Veterans Affairs to announce the award of $818,629 to Family & Community Services Inc., a Ravenna, Ohio-based nonprofit social services group that manages Lorain County’s Valor Home, a transitional housing facility for the county’s homeless veterans. Family & Community Services manages veterans’ transitional housing in Lorain, Akron, Kent and Ravenna. The award was made through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program, which the VA deems its ‘Housing First Strategy’ aimed to help thousands of very low-income Veteran families around the nation who are in need of transitioning to permanent housing. The SSVF grant program supports outreach, case management and other flexible assistance to prevent Veteran homelessness or rapidly re-house Veterans who become homeless. Since 2010, the Housing First Strategy has helped cut Veteran Homelessness nearly in half, according to VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald. “No one who has served our country with dignity and honor should face the indignity of being without adequate shelter,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The superb work of Valor Home offers veterans and their families a helping hand through transitional, temporary housing, a chance that offers hope and the prospects of a second chance to make a better life for themselves and their families. These brave men and women served our country, and this support program is our service in return.” Valor Home in Lorain is a 30-bed, two-story home with 7,000-square-foot livable space for veterans in need of temporary shelter. Veterans are provided individual rooms and permitted to stay a maximum of two years at the Valor Home; the national average is six to nine months. “Family & Community Services, Inc. offers several high-quality transitional housing programs for veterans and their families in northern Ohio, namely Valor Homes, Freedom House, Veteran’s Haven,” said Matthew Slater, the Director of Veterans Services. “We also run permanent supportive housing programs, such as Miss Liberty House, The White House in Ravenna, Riddle St., and G. Street. The renewal of this SSVF grant is vital to helping Ohio reach and maintain a functional zero homeless veterans, and we are absolutely committed to making sure no veteran or their family spend one night on the street.” Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, which funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Background: For more information about the SSVF program, visit www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp For the VA announcement: https://content.govdelivery.com/attachments/USVAOCLA/2016/08/30/file_attachments/611605/16-181%2BVA%2BAnnounces%2BSSVF%2Bgrants%2B-%2BFINAL.pdf For background on the SSVF program: https://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf/index.asp ###
09.01.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today joined the Department of Veterans Affairs to announce the award of $2,176,874 to Frontline Service., a Cleveland-based nonprofit social services group that manages ‘Operation Cleveland Home Front,’ a transitional housing program for the county’s homeless veterans and their families. According to its website, FrontLine Service now operates the largest and most comprehensive continuum of care for homeless persons in Ohio. The award was made through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program, which the VA deems its ‘Housing First Strategy’ aimed to help thousands of very low-income Veteran families around the nation who are in need of transitioning to permanent housing. The SSVF grant program supports outreach, case management and other flexible assistance to prevent Veteran homelessness or rapidly re-house Veterans who become homeless. Since 2010, the Housing First Strategy has helped cut Veteran Homelessness nearly in half, according to VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald. “No one who has served our country with dignity and honor should face the indignity of being without adequate shelter,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The superb work of Valor Home offers veterans and their families a helping hand through transitional, temporary housing, a chance that offers hope and the prospects of a second chance to make a better life for themselves and their families. These brave men and women served our country, and this support program is our service in return.” Frontline Service administers ‘Operation Cleveland Home Front,’ which it describes as a program designed to prevent homelessness and increase housing options for homeless Veterans and their families. Case managers provide supportive services, access to community-based mental health and substance abuse services, and linkage to veterans benefits. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, which funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Background: For more information about the SSVF program, visit www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp For the VA announcement: https://content.govdelivery.com/attachments/USVAOCLA/2016/08/30/file_attachments/611605/16-181%2BVA%2BAnnounces%2BSSVF%2Bgrants%2B-%2BFINAL.pdf For background on the SSVF program: https://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf/index.asp ###
08.31.2016	Today, Dana Corporation broke ground for an $70 million, 200,000 square foot expansion to triple the size of its new facility in Toledo and create 300 new jobs. It’s a great story, about a storied American company with long local roots. Dana will make axles for the new version of a great American brand, the Jeep Wrangler, on the site of the old Jeep and Willys Overland plant, restoring it from brownfield status. How this came to be is a story about the proper role of government, and how a local community, its leaders and citizens, and private business can join together and work collaboratively for mutual benefit. It wasn’t that long ago when the American auto industry was flat on its back, in bankruptcy, with serious doubts about its very survival. There were some who wanted to give up on the American auto industry and its two million workers. They chose the easy path, turned their backs, choosing ideological purity over pragmatism. They voted against providing a funding bridge that was necessary to retool and rebuild the American automobile industry, the backbone of the American economy – and our region's economy. But the rest of us weren’t going to concede our future. We weren’t going to simply give up and foreclose on it. We organized; we planned and made our best case; we fought; we won. Thanks to our efforts, the American auto industry is back, better than ever. I am proud of my role as a leader in the fight on behalf of Toledo’s economy -- its auto workers, the auto manufacturers, and its suppliers, like Dana, which has supplied Jeep Wranglers with axles since before World War II. I am honored to have secured the first federal funding necessary to purchase the property and then to arrange funding for the clean-up of the 110 acres of the Overland Park brownfield site. With the Port Authority's leadership we transitioned the property to a clean, workable manufacturing site. Were it not for securing those federal funds we would not be celebrating Dana’s expansion, nor would there be the future prospects of 300 new quality good-paying jobs for Toledo. America never succeeded by thinking small. America never thrived by giving up. America succeeds when it dreams big dreams, when it competes to win. When we are allowed to compete fairly, we win.
08.31.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that Ohio will receive nearly $2 million from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under three health-related programs to address the statewide epidemic of opioid misuse and overdoses. The awards announced today were made by two agencies within HHS, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) and the Center for Disease Control (CDC), which focus on opioid misuse and overdoses. Ohio was selected for three separate programs and will receive a total of $1,998,455 out of $53 million allocated nationwide to 44 States, four tribes and the District of Columbia to “improve access to treatment for opioid use disorders, reduce opioid related deaths, and strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts. In addition, funding will also support improved data collection and analysis around opioid misuse and overdose as well as better tracking of fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses.” “This is welcome news, of course. Any additional resources are a help,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “But this is an epidemic, and it’s getting worse, based on what I have been told by medical professionals and law enforcement officials in northern Ohio. Everyone acknowledges this isn’t enough – everyone except the Republicans in Congress, that is.” In Ohio, deaths and overdoses from heroin and opioids have reached epidemic proportions. According to data released last week by the Ohio Department of Health, opioid overdoses killed a record 3,050 people in Ohio in 2015, more than one-third of them from fentanyl, a super-potent opiate often mixed with heroin. When the data includes heroin and opioids, Cuyahoga County has seen 1,386 people die from overdoses between 2010 to 2015. Deaths in 2016 are expected to exceed 500 in number, nearly double the total from 2015, according to William Denihan, the chief executive officer of the Cuyahoga County Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board. In Lucas County, 113 people died of heroin or other opioid overdoses in 2015, with roughly 3,000 reported non-fatal overdoses, according to law enforcement sources. Ohio will be awarded funds under one program administered by the Substances Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, or SAMHSA, and two programs oversee by the Centers for Disease Control, or CDC. Background: Ohio receives $2 million total, out of $53 million nationwide. Mental Health Funds (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration, or SAMHSA) • Ohio’s Department of Mental Health Services receives $371,616 for the Strategic Prevention Framework Partnerships for Prescription Drugs Grants to strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts (total nationwide $9 million). The grant program provides an opportunity for states, U.S. territories, Pacific jurisdictions, and tribal entities that have completed a Strategic Prevention Framework State Incentive Grant to target the priority issue of prescription drug misuse. The program is designed to raise awareness about the dangers of sharing medications and work with pharmaceutical and medical communities on the risks of overprescribing. The program also seeks to raise community awareness and bring prescription drug abuse prevention activities and education to schools, communities, parents, prescribers, and their patients. CDC programs: • Ohio’s Department of Health receives $1 million for the ‘The Prescription Drug Overdose: Prevention for States’ program (nationwide $11 million). This supplemental funding will support the ongoing work of awardees, allowing awardees to address issues such as high overdose death rates and improve toxicology and drug screening. States can use this funding to enhance prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs), further prevention efforts to identify doctors who aren’t following good practices, or patients who are doctor shopping, and execute and evaluate strategies to improve safe prescribing practices. • Ohio’s Department of Health receives $626,939 for The Enhanced State Surveillance of Opioid-Involved Morbidity and Mortality program is awarding $4.27 million in funds to 12 states to better track fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses. States will use the funding to: o Increase the timeliness of reporting nonfatal and fatal opioid overdose and associated risk factors; o Disseminate surveillance findings to key stakeholders working to prevent opioid-involved overdoses; and o Share data with CDC to support improved multi-state surveillance of and response to opioid-involved overdoses. More information about SAMHSA grants and the grantees is available at: https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/ More information about CDC grants and the grantees is available at: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/states/index.html. More information on the Prescription Drug Overdose: Prevention for States program: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/states/state_prevention.html More information on the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Opioid Initiative: https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/Factsheet-opioids-061516.pdf ###
08.31.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) expects this morning to receive details on federal funding awarded to the State of Ohio under three health-related programs aimed at addressing the national epidemic of opioid misuse and overdoses. In Ohio, deaths and overdoses from heroin and opioids have reached epidemic proportions. According to data released last week by the Ohio Department of Health, opioid overdoses killed a record 3,050 people in Ohio in 2015, more than one-third of them from fentanyl, a super-potent opiate often mixed with heroin. When the data includes heroin and opioids, Cuyahoga County has seen 1,386 people die from overdoses between 2010 to 2015, and deaths in 2016 are expected to exceed 500 in number, nearly double the total from 2015, according to William Denihan, the chief executive officer of the Cuyahoga County Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board. In Lucas County, 113 people died of heroin or other opioid overdoses in 2015, with roughly 3,000 reported non-fatal overdoses, according to law enforcement sources. The grant awards made today focus on opioid misuse and overdoses. According to a preliminary notice from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, a “total of $53 million will be distributed to 44 States, four tribes and the District of Columbia to improve access to treatment for opioid use disorders, reduce opioid related deaths, and strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts. In addition, funding will also support improved data collection and analysis around opioid misuse and overdose as well as better tracking of fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses.” Moreover, the funds will focus “on improving opioid prescribing practices; expanding access to medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for opioid use disorder; and increasing the use of naloxone to reverse opioid overdoses. The initiative concentrates on evidence-based strategies that can have the most significant impact on the crisis. But additional funding is necessary to ensure that every American who wants to get treatment for opioid use disorder will have access.” Ohio will be awarded funds under one program administered by the Substances Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, or SAMHSA, and two programs oversee by the Centers for Disease Control, or CDC. Specific details on the amounts allocated to Ohio will be made available the morning of Wednesday, August 31, 2016. From the HHS announcement: SAMHSA programs: • The Strategic Prevention Framework Partnerships for Prescription Drugs Grants provide up to $9 million to 21 states and four tribes to strengthen drug abuse prevention efforts, and to raise awareness about the dangers of sharing medications and work with pharmaceutical and medical communities on the risks of overprescribing. The program also seeks to raise community awareness and bring prescription drug abuse prevention activities and education to schools, communities, parents, prescribers, and their patients. CDC programs: • The Prescription Drug Overdose: Prevention for States program provides up to $11.5 million in supplemental funding to 14 states. This supplemental funding will support the ongoing work of awardees, allowing awardees to address issues such as high overdose death rates in tribal communities and improve toxicology and drug screening. States can use this funding to enhance prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs), further prevention efforts, and execute and evaluate strategies to improve safe prescribing practices. • The Enhanced State Surveillance of Opioid-Involved Morbidity and Mortality program is awarding $4.27 million in funds to 12 states to better track fatal and nonfatal opioid-involved overdoses, specifically to 1) increase the timeliness of reporting nonfatal and fatal opioid overdose and associated risk factors; disseminate surveillance findings to key stakeholders working to prevent opioid-involved overdoses; and 3) share data with CDC to support improved multi-state surveillance of and response to opioid-involved overdoses. More information about SAMHSA grants and the grantees is available at: https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/ More information about CDC grants and the grantees is available at: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/states/index.html. More information on the Prescription Drug Overdose: Prevention for States program: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/states/state_prevention.html More information on the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Opioid Initiative: https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/Factsheet-opioids-061516.pdf ###
08.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Science Foundation (NSF) to announce the award of $123,859 to The University of Toledo to “develop practical strategies for broadening the participation of African American students in engineering.” The project will conduct a comparative study of the factors affecting the success and pathways to engineering careers of underrepresented minority students at both The University of Toledo and Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University. This project, entitled "Collaborative Research: Research Initiation: Factors Affecting Underrepresented Minority Student Success and Pathways to Engineering Careers at Majority and Minority Institutions," is under the direction of the project’s principal investigator, Lesley Berhan, Associate Professor in the department of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering. Berhan is joined by Revathy Kumar, Professor of Educational Psychology, and Willie McKether, Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion, both co-principal investigators. The award starts Oct. 01, 2016. “Once again, The University of Toledo is on the forefront of cross-cutting, long-term research that will determine our economic destiny,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It’s important for future generations and our economic standing to understand and develop the means to maximize opportunity for all of our citizens to contribute to their best God-given abilities. This research aims to do that.” “The broader impact of this project is that it addresses the national need to diversify the engineering workforce,” Berhan said. "The results will be used to identify areas where existing practices might be improved and to inform the design of programs and intervention strategies to improve the success of underrepresented engineering students not only at our home institutions, but at institutions across the country.” The NSF’s Engineering Education and Centers (EEC) “integrate disciplinary basic research and education conducted in other divisions of NSF’s engineering programs, and across NSF, into strategic frameworks critical to addressing societal grand challenges and to promoting innovation.” According to the NSF: “This project is motivated by the need to develop practical strategies for broadening the participation of African American students in engineering. While inadequate college preparation is a contributing factor in the low enrollment and poor retention and graduation rates among underrepresented students in engineering programs, there is evidence that professional persistence is directly linked to identity development and social and academic interactions. For students from underrepresented groups in STEM at both Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Predominantly White Institutions (PWIs), it is generally recognized that social capital in the form of familial, peer and mentor support is critical to persistence in their major field of study. However, the role that embedded networks within student groups in general and minority engineering affinity groups in particular play in engineering students' identity formation and academic success is not well understood. It is also not clear how other factors including institutional support and the attitudes and beliefs of faculty and staff toward underrepresented minority students affect the ability of these students to integrate into the social and academic systems at their institutions and how these factors influence the formation and development of their identities as engineers. The influence of these factors will be investigated in this project. The insight gained into the factors affecting the social and academic survival of students at PWIs and HBCUs from the psychological and anthropological perspective proposed will potentially lead to new approaches and pathways to broadening participation and improving the success of underrepresented minority students in engineering. The central objective of this interdisciplinary, interinstitutional research initiation project is to conduct a comparative study of the factors affecting the success and pathways to engineering careers of underrepresented minority students at the University of Toledo (a Predominantly White Institution (PWI)) and Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University (a Historically Black University). Specifically, the comparative investigation will focus on three areas: 1. The attitudes and beliefs of faculty and staff toward underrepresented students and how these attitudes influence their classroom, and advising interactions and expectations, and the impact they have on the students' sense of belonging and academic success; 2. The existing institutional support mechanisms at both institutions and students' perceptions of their efficacy and the role they perceive these mechanisms play in their academic success; and 3. The influence of student organizations - specifically underrepresented Minority engineering affinity groups and the embedded networks therein on the social and academic integration of African American students at the two types of institutions. The study will be embedded in the existing literature on faculty/teacher expectations of their students, the dual process model of attitude-to-behavior processes, and achievement goal motivation theory to examine faculty implicit attitudes, students perceptions of and feelings about the institution and program, and their academic and social outcomes.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Science Foundation. Background: The National Science Foundation announcement: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1640553 For background on the NSF’s Engineering Education and Centers: https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=eec For background on Assistant Professor Lesley Berhan: https://www.eng.utoledo.edu/mime/faculty_staff/faculty/lberhan/ For background on The University of Toledo: www.utoledo.edu
08.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Science Foundation (NSF) to announce the award of $123,859 to The University of Toledo to “develop practical strategies for broadening the participation of African American students in engineering.” The project will conduct a comparative study of the factors affecting the success and pathways to engineering careers of underrepresented minority students at both The University of Toledo and Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University. This project, entitled "Collaborative Research: Research Initiation: Factors Affecting Underrepresented Minority Student Success and Pathways to Engineering Careers at Majority and Minority Institutions," is under the direction of the project’s principal investigator, Lesley Berhan, Associate Professor in the department of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering. Berhan is joined by Revathy Kumar, Professor of Educational Psychology, and Willie McKether, Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion, both co-principal investigators. The award starts Oct. 01, 2016. “Once again, The University of Toledo is on the forefront of cross-cutting, long-term research that will determine our economic destiny,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It’s important for future generations and our economic standing to understand and develop the means to maximize opportunity for all of our citizens to contribute to their best God-given abilities. This research aims to do that.” “The broader impact of this project is that it addresses the national need to diversify the engineering workforce,” Berhan said. "The results will be used to identify areas where existing practices might be improved and to inform the design of programs and intervention strategies to improve the success of underrepresented engineering students not only at our home institutions, but at institutions across the country.” The NSF’s Engineering Education and Centers (EEC) “integrate disciplinary basic research and education conducted in other divisions of NSF’s engineering programs, and across NSF, into strategic frameworks critical to addressing societal grand challenges and to promoting innovation.” According to the NSF: “This project is motivated by the need to develop practical strategies for broadening the participation of African American students in engineering. While inadequate college preparation is a contributing factor in the low enrollment and poor retention and graduation rates among underrepresented students in engineering programs, there is evidence that professional persistence is directly linked to identity development and social and academic interactions. For students from underrepresented groups in STEM at both Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Predominantly White Institutions (PWIs), it is generally recognized that social capital in the form of familial, peer and mentor support is critical to persistence in their major field of study. However, the role that embedded networks within student groups in general and minority engineering affinity groups in particular play in engineering students' identity formation and academic success is not well understood. It is also not clear how other factors including institutional support and the attitudes and beliefs of faculty and staff toward underrepresented minority students affect the ability of these students to integrate into the social and academic systems at their institutions and how these factors influence the formation and development of their identities as engineers. The influence of these factors will be investigated in this project. The insight gained into the factors affecting the social and academic survival of students at PWIs and HBCUs from the psychological and anthropological perspective proposed will potentially lead to new approaches and pathways to broadening participation and improving the success of underrepresented minority students in engineering. The central objective of this interdisciplinary, interinstitutional research initiation project is to conduct a comparative study of the factors affecting the success and pathways to engineering careers of underrepresented minority students at the University of Toledo (a Predominantly White Institution (PWI)) and Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University (a Historically Black University). Specifically, the comparative investigation will focus on three areas: 1. The attitudes and beliefs of faculty and staff toward underrepresented students and how these attitudes influence their classroom, and advising interactions and expectations, and the impact they have on the students' sense of belonging and academic success; 2. The existing institutional support mechanisms at both institutions and students' perceptions of their efficacy and the role they perceive these mechanisms play in their academic success; and 3. The influence of student organizations - specifically underrepresented Minority engineering affinity groups and the embedded networks therein on the social and academic integration of African American students at the two types of institutions. The study will be embedded in the existing literature on faculty/teacher expectations of their students, the dual process model of attitude-to-behavior processes, and achievement goal motivation theory to examine faculty implicit attitudes, students perceptions of and feelings about the institution and program, and their academic and social outcomes.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Science Foundation. Background: The National Science Foundation announcement: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1640553 For background on the NSF’s Engineering Education and Centers: https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=eec For background on Assistant Professor Lesley Berhan: https://www.eng.utoledo.edu/mime/faculty_staff/faculty/lberhan/ For background on The University of Toledo: www.utoledo.edu
08.25.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Sandusky Fire Department has secured $227,000 in a competitive grant award for the acquisition of specialized fire equipment to assist and improve the Department’s response to fires and other emergencies with the purchase of 38 self-contained breathing apparatuses and harnesses, 100 self-contained breathing apparatus tanks, and 56 facepieces to replace outdated equipment. The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, in coordination with the US Fire Administration, and is the twelfth round of grants made to municipalities this fiscal year. “Congratulations to Fire Chief Dave Degnan and his team with the Sandusky Fire Department. This is quite an accomplishment, especially given the level of competition for such a FEMA grant,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Thousands of fire departments apply for these funds, and the competition is fierce. The Sandusky Fire Department and Chief Degnan made a clear and convincing case that it this a wise investment and will save lives.” The Sandusky Fire Department is a full service fire department providing Fire, Advanced Life Support, Basic Life Support and Technical Rescue. “The Department responds to over 6,000 requests for help annually,” said Sandusky Fire Chief Dave Degnan. “We are honored to have been awarded this grant and the funds will be used to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus to replace outdated equipment. The new equipment will ensure our firefighters can work safely and confidently in dangerous environments.” Competition for the ‘Assistance to Firefighter Grants’ under the category of operations and safety is considerable, involving many thousands of fire departments nationally, and the grants are commonly awarded in amounts below $100,000. FEMA is an agency within the federal Department of Homeland Security. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, and serves on the subcommittee that funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Homeland Security. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant award: https://www.fema.gov/assistance-firefighters-grant Toledo Fire and Rescue Department: https://www.ci.sandusky.oh.us/fire/generalinfo.htm An example of an Assistance to Firefighter Grant success story in Erie County: https://www.fema.gov/assistance-firefighters-grants-success-stories-erie-county-oh# ###
08.22.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Middle Bass Island Airport has secured $223,405 in a competitive grant award for designated runway improvements, to include new sealing and remarking of 1,855 feet of Runway 10/28 to “maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris.” The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. “For Middle Bass Island residents, the airport is their lifeline in the winter,” Kaptur said. “Medical emergencies, mail delivery, access to medicine, and school transportation all depend on a well-functioning Middle Bass Island Airport. The airport is central for the entire Middle Bass Island community, and these funds are a wise investment.” The FAA is an agency within the Department of Transportation and administers the airport runway improvement program. According to the State of Ohio Department of Transportation: “the airport has a unique role for the community. During the summer months the airport serves aircraft charters and recreational flying. However, during the winter months, ferry service to the island is suspended and the airport serves as the only transportation between the island and the mainland. Services provided include emergency medical transport, mail, general supplies and medicine, transportation of school children and other charter services. Griffings Flying Service is the primary charter company serving the airport from the mainland.” Background from the Department of Transportation: • This grant will provide federal funding for the Middle Bass Island Airport in Ohio. • This project will fund crack seal, crack repair, and remarking to rehabilitate 1,855 feet of Runway 10/28 to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. • This project will fund crack seal, crack repair, and remarking to rehabilitate 1,855 feet of parallel Taxiway A needed to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement. • This project will fund crack seal, crack repair, and remarking to rehabilitate 15,400 square yards of the apron to maintain structural integrity of the pavement. • Middle Bass Island Airport is a general aviation airport associated with Middle Bass Island, Ohio. The local point of contact is the Put-In-Bay Township Port Authority. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee that has funding and oversight responsibilities for the Department of Transportation. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant award: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=jihl9gp6bq Middle Bass Island: https://www.middlebass.org/ State of Ohio background on Middle Bass Island airport: https://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/Operations/Aviation/OhioAirportsFocusStudy/FindingsandRecommendationsDocs/EconomicImpactBrochures/Middle%20Bass-Middle%20Bass%20Island.pdf YouTube video of landing a plane at Middle Bass airport: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2P-br2GVM-I The Put-In-Bay Township Port Authority may be reached at (419) 285-3371. ###
08.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Science Foundation (NSF) to announce the award of $50,000 to The University of Toledo for the purpose of designing “a market ready gas sensor system to monitor hazardous and industrial gas leakages such as chlorine and ammonia” which will have “potential applications in diverse fields such as: bleaching industries involving food, clothes and papers, agriculture, defense, and others.” This project, entitled "I-Corps Teams: Customer Discovery Activity for Microelectromechanical Systems based Gas Sensors," is under the direction of The University of Toledo professor Ahalapitiya (Jay) Jayatissa, who oversees UT’s Nanotechnology & MEMS Laboratory. “Congratulations to The University of Toledo for yet another promising research projected funded under a competitive grant process,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Dr. Jayatissa oversees some fascinating research projects, and the NSF grant-making process is highly competitive. This is terrific news for his lab, and for the research being done at UT.” “The grant will be used to develop commercialization strategies for a novel micro-gas sensor system,” added Dr. Ahalapitiya Jayatissa, UT mechanical engineering professor and the project’s principal investigator. “This product that detects trace amounts of hazardous gases is highly beneficial for industries, laboratories and environmental monitoring agencies to enhance workplace safety and reduce air pollution. I believe this new technology will open a path to establish a high tech company in northwest Ohio.” The NSF’s Directorate for Engineering's Division of Industrial Innovation and Partnerships (IIP) fosters partnerships to advance technological innovation and public-private partnerships. IIP invests in high-tech small businesses and collaborations between academia and industry to transform discoveries into innovative commercial technologies with societal benefits. According to the NSF, this “project focuses on a micro-sized gas sensor system to detect leakage of industrial gases. This sensor system consists of nanoscale metal-oxide layer which will be made using a nanocomposite of graphene and metal oxides. Such composites have attractive properties such as low resistance and high active surface-area, which are important to enhance the performance of gas sensors. Also, this composite layer can be optimized for fast sensor response and enhanced selectivity for a particular gas. The low resistance of a sensor layer will allow designing of low impedance peripheral circuits while high active surface-area will allow fast response and improved selectivity of sensors.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Science Foundation. Background: The National Science Foundation announcement: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1644894 For background on the NSF’s Division of Industrial Innovation and Partnerships: https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=iip For background on Dr. Ahalapitiya (Jay) Jayatissa: https://www.eng.utoledo.edu/mime/faculty_staff/faculty/ajayatissa/biography.htm For background on The University of Toledo: www.utoledo.edu ###
08.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the United States Department of Agriculture’s Office of Rural Development to announce the award of $49,356 to provide technical assistance to Toledo-area based Northwest Ohio Cooperative Kitchen (NOCK) in designing food safety protocols and HACCP-level training for food businesses in preparation for increased requirements from purchasing agents and regulatory standards. The twenty-five current operators, future businesses, and additional regional processors will benefit. Ohio is home to some of the country’s most established commercial agriculture-based businesses, including 1,000 food-related companies which employ 60,000 Ohioans. The NOCK, a service of the Center for Innovative Food Technology, or CIFT, is one of two Ohio-based kitchen incubators, and will receive $49,356, which when matched with $17,803 in CIFT funds will provide $67,159 to support the project. “I cannot understate the role the Center for Innovative Food Technology serves in leveraging resources that help bring ideas for products to the marketplace ,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Northwest Ohio Cooperative Kitchen is the place in northwest Ohio where ideas become reality, where dreams and hard work turn into food products that create future jobs and economic growth.” "We are very gratified that the USDA recognizes the value of the NOCK operation, and is providing this support", says Dave Beck, President of CIFT. "It will help us to expand the services that we offer to food industry entrepreneurs in Northwest Ohio and beyond." According to website of the Center for Innovative Food Technology, or CIFT: “Born out of northwest Ohio's rich tradition in fruit and vegetable production and food processing, the Northwest Ohio Cooperative Kitchen (NOCK) focuses on the development and production of specialty, value added foods. The NOCK is a nonprofit commercial kitchen facility designed to assist entrepreneurial efforts and expand current food-related businesses.” According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the HACCP, or Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point, is a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the USDA and the Office of Rural Development. Background: The USDA Office of Rural Development announcement: capwiz.com/usdarural/utr/1/NWEFXTZTQA/JNFMXTZTQE/11278892691 For a YouTube video on the Northwest Ohio Cooperative Kitchen : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQosOGnWUBg For background on Toledo’s Center For Innovative Food Technology, or CIFT: https://ciftinnovation.org/small-news-list/57-northwest-ohio-cooperative-kitchen For a list of CIFT clients: https://ciftinnovation.org/small-news-list/144 For background on HACCP: https://www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceRegulation/HACCP/ ###
08.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Institute of Aging, a research institute within the National Institutes of Health, to announce the two-year award of $445,000 in federal research funds to The University of Toledo’s Department of Neurosciences research laboratory for the purpose of new Alzheimer’s research entitled, “A BBB-permeable neurotrophic polysaccharide, midi-GAGR.” The research project is managed by Joshua Jin-Hyouk Park, PhD, UT professor of neuroscience. “This is the second NIH grant this year for Dr. Park, which is noteworthy given the competition involved for NIH research grants,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It’s an exciting time to be involved in neuroscience research, and it’s a tribute to The University of Toledo and to Dr. Park’s laboratory, specifically.” “Over 5 million people in the Unites States and 35 million worldwide suffer from Alzheimer's disease. Current treatments only address symptoms without disease-modifying effect and have side effects,” Park said. “In animal testing, we discovered a neuroprotrophic polysaccharide named midi-GAGR reverses damage to the cell network and reduces the level of proteins generate the neurofibrillary tangles, which allows the brain to begin repairing the building blocks and signalers, improving memory and cognition.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the National Institute of Aging. Background: For background on Dr. Joshua Park: https://www.utoledo.edu/med/depts/neurosciences/josh.html For background on the NIA grant announcement: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:166358 For background on The University of Toledo: https://utoledo.edu For background on Alzheimer’s: https://www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/publication/alzheimers-disease-fact-sheet ###
08.11.2016	New Wastewater Collection and Treatment System to Improve Health of Residents of 533 Homes, End the Practice of Subdivision’s Dumping Raw Sewage Destined for Lake Erie. Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture’s Office of Rural Development has approved a $4.3 million low-interest forty-year loan for the purpose of making “improvements to the Pheasant Run Subdivision’s wastewater collection and treatment system.” The Pheasant Run Homeowner’s Association has been engaged in a roughly twenty-year dispute over its treatment of its wastewater, accused in a 2007 lawsuit of allowing its wastewater treatment plant to dump 542,000 gallons of raw sewage into the Wellington Creek, a tributary of the Black River, which eventually ends up in Lake Erie. Untreated wastewater and sewage is a known contributor to recent algal blooms occurring in Lake Erie. The Pheasant Run Subdivision consists of 533 homes located in Southern Lorain County and their wastewater is treated by a community treatment plant which no longer meets the minimum health standards of the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. According to the Office of Rural Development “the wastewater improvements will bring the Pheasant Run Area into EPA compliance, which in turn will improve the health to the occupants of the 533 homes.” The loan term is for forty years, at a 2.2 percent annual interest rate. The Office of Rural Development explained: “Rural Development funds will finance improvements to the Pheasant Run Subdivision’s wastewater collection and treatment system. Pheasant Run is located in Southern Lorain County and their wastewater is treated by a community treatment plant, which no longer meets EPA Standards. Once this project is completed Lorain County will decommission the current plant and send the wastewater to the City of LaGrange’s wastewater treatment plant. In addition to the change in treatment the wastewater collection system will be rehabilitated to reduce the amount of inflow and infiltration into the system. With Rural Development Financing, the wastewater improvements will bring the Pheasant Run Area into EPA compliance, which in turn will improve the health to the occupants of the 533 homes. 40 years 2.25 percent $4,300,000” For more information: USDA Office of Rural Development: https://capwiz.com/usdarural/utr/1/MYNUXTZWOM/GZRQXTZWPO/11278895261 Chronicle-Telegram story on raw sewage: https://www.loraincounty.com/pheasant-run-association/discussion.shtml?id=184763&f=15&v The Press article on sewage and algal blooms: https://www.presspublications.com/15283-sewer-overflow-contributes-toward-harmful-algal-blooms-in-lake ###
08.10.2016	Toledo, Ohio — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced today that the University of Toledo (UT) has secured a total of $375,000 in federal research funds from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support five research projects, namely in the fields of cybersecurity, advanced materials manufacturing, smart grid technology and three-dimensional cell culture. The funds were awarded by the National Science Foundation under a competitive review process, and the five separate awards are noteworthy given the limited federal research budget in a tight budget environment. “These funds will allow the top researchers at The University of Toledo to focus on developing breakthrough discoveries that will likely spur private-sector economic growth from new products and services for the automotive and aerospace sectors, cybersecurity, and agriculture.” said Rep Kaptur. “There are exciting things happening at The University of Toledo.” “The recent awards are the latest from four UT entrepreneurial teams that are focused on technologies related to cybersecurity, advanced materials manufacturing, smart grid technology and three-dimensional cell culture. The I-Corps program will provide these teams an opportunity to explore the commercial potential of their technologies,” said William S. Messer, Jr., PhD, Vice President of Research at the University of Toledo. The National Science Foundation awards are for the following: • Novel Smart Meters with Built-in Self-Test and Hardware Security, led by Dr. Mohammed Niamat, will receive $50,000 to enhance the reliability, longevity, security, and trustworthiness of the advanced metering infrastructure in smart grids; • Auxetic Structures for Practical Applications, with principal investigator Dr. Lesley Berhan, will receive $50,000 to develop auxetic composites that are suitable for a broad range of applications spanning several industries, including personal protective equipment, and structural and noise vibration applications in the automotive and aerospace sectors; • Dynamic Tissue Culture Platform for in vitro Drug Screening, led by Dr. Eda Yildirim-Ayan, will receive $50,000 to further develop a three-dimensional in vitro culture environment for cells in drug testing. This will reduce the time and resources spent on animal breeding and husbandry associated with animal model testing; • Addressing Information Security with Channel Codes, led by Jared Oluoch, will receive $50,000 to improve data security using a combination of signaling and coding techniques to prevent eavesdropping on a communication channel; • CM/Collaborative Research: CloudMEMS: Cybermanufacturing of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems, led by Dr. Vijaya Kumar Devabhaktuni (principal investigator) and Dr. Daniel Georgiev (Co-Principal Investigator), will receive $175,000 to develop a web-based, low-cost program to design Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS), which will allow innovators and entrepreneurs to more efficiently prototype their designs. For more information: University of Toledo Research: https://www.utoledo.edu/research/ National Science Foundation Awards: https://www.nsf.gov/awards/about.jsp
08.09.2016	Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today applauded the announcement that the Toussaint Wildlife Area, the 231-acre coastal wetland complex in Ottawa County, will receive $600,000 in a federal award for restoration efforts conducted by Ducks Unlimited, the leading non-profit wildlife restoration organization. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, notified Kaptur this afternoon about the competitive award, which Ducks Unlimited applied for in January 2016 and for which Kaptur sent the attached letter of support. NOAA’s announcement stated that “the project will restore fish access into the wetlands and remove levees and water control structures. A total of up to $20,000,000 for additional restoration in the region is anticipated over a three-year period.” “This is terrific news for anyone who has visited the Toussaint Wildlife Area and who supports preserving our natural habitat. It is also terrific news for Ottawa County’s local businesses, many of whom enjoy an economic benefit from visitors to the Toussaint Wildlife Area,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, a longtime supporter of wildlife restoration programs. “I am particularly pleased to hear about NOAA’s commitment of up to $20 million for other regional restoration projects in the next thirty-six months.” GLRI was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. Since then, GLRI has funded more than 2,930 projects totaling over $1.5 billion. Priority funding areas include restoration work in highly contaminated Areas of Concern, nutrient reduction, invasive species control and habitat restoration. For more information about the GLRI, visit: https://www.glri.us. For the NOAA announcement: https://www.habitat.noaa.gov/highlights/newpartnershipstorestoregreatlakes.html For background on Ducks Unlimited: https://www.ducks.org/ For information on the Great Lakes Information Network, or GLIN: https://www.glin.net/
08.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, a research institute within the National Institutes of Health, to announce the two-year award of $147,500 in federal research funds to The University of Toledo’s Department of Biological Sciences research laboratoryfor the purpose of new fertility research entitled, “A Genome-wide Drosophila RNAi Screen for Regulators of Centrosome Reduction.” The research project is managed by Tomer Avidor-Reiss, PhD, UT associate professor of biological sciences. “Once again The University of Toledo is the recipient of research grants for breakthrough discoveries,” said Kaptur. “This time it’s for the challenge of identifying contributing factors for male infertility, early stage miscarriages and developmental diseases, and, hopefully, finding new treatments.” In approximately 40 percent of infertile couples, the male partner is either the sole cause or a contributing cause of infertility. “Infertility is a problem for one in eight couples. Often we see sperm cells that look normal, but when they fertilize the egg there are abnormalities in the embryo,” said Dr. Tomer Avidor-Reiss, associate professor of biological sciences. “This study has provided the first insight into a molecular mechanism that regulates centrosome reduction and the first direct evidence this process is essential for post-fertilization embryonic development.” According to HHS, “This study is innovative because it is the first to use a genetic approach to study centrosome reduction. This study's outcomes are expected to vertically advance the understanding of how and why centrosomal proteins decrease during sperm formation. Ultimately, such knowledge has the potential to identify new causes of male infertility, early stage miscarriages, and developmental diseases, as well as provide new insight into treatment of these conditions. Public Health Relevance: In spite of tremendous efforts to characterize the genetic basis for male infertility, only about half of all male infertility cases are of a known cause. To identify new mechanisms that contribute to male infertility, the goal of this project is to study the molecular basis of centrosome change, which takes place during spermatogenesis, using Drosophila.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has funding responsibilities and oversight over the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. Background: For background on Dr. Tomer Avidor-Reiss: https://www.utoledo.edu/nsm/bio/research/AvidorReiss.html For Dr. Avidor-Reiss’s lab website: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tomer_Avidor-Reiss For background on the NIAID grant announcement: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:164482 For background on University of Toledo: https://utoledo.edu For background on infertility: https://www.asrm.org/detail.aspx?id=2322
08.03.2016	Steve LaTourette was a very adept political figure who was highly intelligent and a lawyer's lawyer. He was one of those members that had the capacity to reach across the aisle. He always had a smile and always had a good word. If I can pick one area where we accomplished something, it was trying to get resources allocated to the Great Lakes at the federal level. I would say he was a very rare talent. My deepest sympathies go to his family.
08.03.2016	Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Toledo Fire & Rescue Department has secured $80,530 in a competitive grant award for the acquisition of specialized fire equipment to assist and improve the Department’s response to fires and other emergencies in Toledo’s high-rise buildings and any fire incident that would require a long stretch of fire hose, including commercial ships, vehicle fires in parking garages, wild fires, and train derailments. The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, in coordination with the US Fire Administration. There are more than 100 buildings in Toledo that qualify as high-rise structures, defined as six or more stories in height. “This is quite an achievement, especially given the level of competition for such a FEMA grant,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Virtually every fire department in the country applies for these funds. The Toledo fire and Rescue Department identified a public safety need and then made a convincing case that it is a wise investment to protect Toledo’s residents and businesses located in our city’s tall buildings.” "The Toledo Fire and Rescue Department is always looking for creative ways to acquire funding to procure needed equipment," said Toledo Deputy Chief John Kaminski. "We are very appreciative of this award and the opportunity for advancing our agency with modern, updated equipment." Competition for the ‘Assistance to Firefighter Grants’ under the category of operations and safety is fierce, involving many thousands of fire departments nationally, and the grants are commonly awarded in amounts below $100,000. FEMA is an agency within the federal Department of Homeland Security. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee, and serves on the subcommittee that funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Homeland Security. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant award: https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program Toledo Fire and Rescue Department: https://www.toledofirerescue.com/
08.01.2016	Lorain, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded the announcement today that the Lorain County Community Action Agency, Inc. (LCCAA) has been awarded $7,068,984.00 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as part of their annual funding for the Head Start and Early Head Start programs, a slight increase in funding from last year’s award. The Head Start programs have had measurable success on learning outcomes throughout children’s lives. “Whether a child speaks 4,000 words or 400 words makes a huge difference in that child's learning, educational advancement and ability to find and keep a good job in the future," said Rep. Kaptur. “Day care providers, home based daycare centers and family centers bring children in need together with caring adults. I congratulate the Lorain County Community Action Agency on their continued commitment to our youngest citizens by providing them with great early learning programs that will have a life-long impact.” “LCCAA is a working example of the power of Head Start in the lives of young children and their parents,” said Jackie Boehnlein, President and CEO of LCCAA. “We are proud to share that this year all of LCCAA’s directly-operated centers for Head Start have the highest quality rating available in Ohio at Five Stars.” From the Lorain County Community Action Agency website: “LCCAA’s federally funded comprehensive child development program serves 987 preschool age children. A total of 1,274 were enrolled throughout the year with full enrollment at 987 maintained by filling vacated slots from the program’s waiting list. Early Head Start serves 40 pregnant women, infants and toddlers. A total of 51 were enrolled throughout the year with full enrollment maintained by a waiting list. Children from birth to age 5 (and pregnant women) are automatically eligible if they are receiving Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI). Children who are homeless or in foster care are also automatically eligible. Families with an income at or below 130 percent of the federal poverty level are also eligible. To promote interaction among children of all backgrounds, LCCAA’s program allows for up to 10 percent of households to be above 130 percent of poverty.” Source: https://www.lccaa.net/cms/files/File/LCCAA%20Annual%20Report.pdf
08.01.2016	Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) hailed the announcement that the Toledo Zoo has been awarded $92,130 from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to help fund the first-ever Ohio facility to rear sturgeon which will eventually be released into the Maumee River in an effort to restore lake sturgeon, which are endangered in Ohio. The funding has been awarded under the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act, which funds regional projects to restore sustainable populations of fish and wildlife resources in the Great Lakes Basin. “Congratulations to the Toledo Zoo for achieving this award,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, a Co-Chair of Congress' Great Lakes Caucus. “I have always viewed the Toledo Zoo as a sophisticated science campus and living laboratory that can help this and future generations of all creatures live in communion with the powerful forces of nature. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative's support for programs such as these awarded today has been critical to state and local efforts to protect Lake Erie’s freshwater future. As the Representative of the longest coastline in the lower Great Lakes, our entire region is tied to Lake Erie’s health and future." Also awarded was $559,177 to Ducks Unlimited to restore fish passage and coastal wetlands on Lakes St. Clair and Erie, benefitting Ohio’s Toussaint Wildlife Area in Ottawa County. “My hat's off to Ducks Unlimited for its active leadership over the decades in helping our region preserve and restore some its wild, natural heritage‎ for future generations,” said Rep. Kaptur. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. Since then, GLRI has funded more than 2,930 projects totaling over $1.5 billion. Priority funding areas include restoration work in highly contaminated Areas of Concern, nutrient reduction, invasive species control and habitat restoration. For more information about the GLRI, visit: https://www.glri.us.
07.29.2016	Lorain, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded the announcement today that the Lorain County Community Action Agency, Inc. (LCCAA) has been awarded $7,068,984.00 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as part of their annual funding for the Head Start and Early Head Start programs, a slight increase in funding from last year’s award. The Head Start programs have had measurable success on learning outcomes throughout children’s lives. “Whether a child speaks 4,000 words or 400 words makes a huge difference in that child's learning, educational advancement and ability to find and keep a good job in the future," said Rep. Kaptur. “Day care providers, home based daycare centers and family centers bring children in need together with caring adults. I congratulate the Lorain County Community Action Agency on their continued commitment to our youngest citizens by providing them with great early learning programs that will have a life-long impact.” “LCCAA is a working example of the power of Head Start in the lives of young children and their parents,” said Jackie Boehnlein, President and CEO of LCCAA. “We are proud to share that this year all of LCCAA’s directly-operated centers for Head Start have the highest quality rating available in Ohio at Five Stars.” From the Lorain County Community Action Agency website: “LCCAA’s federally funded comprehensive child development program serves 987 preschool age children. A total of 1,274 were enrolled throughout the year with full enrollment at 987 maintained by filling vacated slots from the program’s waiting list. Early Head Start serves 40 pregnant women, infants and toddlers. A total of 51 were enrolled throughout the year with full enrollment maintained by a waiting list. Children from birth to age 5 (and pregnant women) are automatically eligible if they are receiving Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI). Children who are homeless or in foster care are also automatically eligible. Families with an income at or below 130 percent of the federal poverty level are also eligible. To promote interaction among children of all backgrounds, LCCAA’s program allows for up to 10 percent of households to be above 130 percent of poverty.” Source: https://www.lccaa.net/cms/files/File/LCCAA%20Annual%20Report.pdf
07.27.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the University of Toledo has secured $235,035.00 in a four-year award from the National Science Foundation (NSF), through the Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI) Division. “This is welcome news for the University of Toledo, an institution that is leading the way in scientific research,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The NSF award will facilitate the discovery of hard, wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant coatings which could be used on fuel-efficient jet engines, high temperature concentrating solar power plants, and wind turbines.” The awarded project is entitled "DMREF/Collaborative Research: Nitride Discovery - Creating the Knowledge Base for Hard Coating Synthesis," is under the direction of Dr. Sanjay V. Khare, Professor and Director of the Professional Science Masters in Photo-voltaics and Director of the Minor in Renewable Energy Department of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Toledo. “This is research through which we hope to accelerate discovery of hard, wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant coatings for emerging applications including fuel-efficient jet engines and gas turbines, environmentally-friendly lubricant-free cutting tools, high-temperature concentrating solar power plants, and wind turbines,” said Dr. Khare. “Potential impact would be for improving US defense machinery and cutting tools for industrial manufacturing.” William Messer, Jr., Vice President of Research at The University of Toledo, explained that “Dr. Khare's research builds on theoretical studies that predict a class of molecules known as nitrides could be useful in manufacturing hard coatings for a variety of applications. Such materials have been difficult to make by traditional approaches, but Dr. Khare is combining theory and experimental approaches to control chemical reactions at the surface of the coatings to achieve a new set of durable materials. These studies have broad implications for manufacturing jet engines, gas and wind turbines and solar power plants among other applications.”
07.22.2016	May the angels of dearest Congressman Mark's formidable spirit usher him, and the hearts of his loved ones, to a ‎state of peace and well-being‎. On behalf of the people of Ohio's 9th Congressional district, our deepest sympathies are extended to his Hawaiian family, his friends, associates and staff. During his days of life with us, his extraordinary valor was demonstrated daily. In his memory, let us carry his inspired service forward and properly remember his memory. With abiding remembrance and deepest sympathy.
07.22.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Kelleys Island Land Field Airport has secured $171,100 in a competitive grant award for designated runway improvements, to include new sealing and remarking of 2,203 feet of Runway 9/27 to “maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris.” The competitive grant was awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. “This is wonderful news for the residents of Kelleys Island,” Kaptur said. “The residents competed for this grant against a number of other airports, almost all of which are larger in size, and it is to their credit that they were selected. Congratulations to Mayor Arden Cooper and his colleagues.” The FAA is an agency within the Department of Transportation and administers the airport runway improvement program. In 2014, Kelleys Island Land Field Airport received $369,000 to acquire 1.1 acres to extend a runway. Background from the Department of Transportation: This grant will provide federal funding for the Kelleys Island Land Field Airport in Ohio. This project will fund crack seal and remarking to rehabilitate 2,203 feet of Runway 9/27 to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. Kelleys Island Land Field Airport is a general aviation airport associated with Kelleys Island, Ohio. The local point of contact is Mr. Arden Cooper, Mayor. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee that funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Transportation. For more information: Background on the Department of Transportation grant award: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=gjp86bc9d1 Kelleys Island: https://www.kelleysisland.com/ ###
07.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Institute of Health’s National Cancer Institute to announce the two-year award of $151,100 in federal cancer research funds to The University of Toledo’s Department of Biological Sciences research laboratory for the purpose of new cancer research entitled, “A Novel RhoG Protein Interaction Network in Invadopodia.” The research project is managed by Rafael Garcia-Mata, PhD, UT assistant professor of biological sciences. “There is exciting medical research ongoing at The University of Toledo,” said Kaptur. “This new two-year award is a credit to UT’s high-quality basic research, which is typically unheralded work requiring several years of diligence and persistence. But this research often results in powerful breakthroughs that benefit untold millions. It is important that federal funds continue to support such basic medical research.” In breast cancer patients, the migration of cancer cells away from the primary tumor and their subsequent metastasis to distant organs is the leading cause of mortality. Cancer cells invade other tissues and enter the bloodstream by forming actin-rich membrane protrusions called invadopodia that degrade the extracellular matrix (ECM). “This study is one of three our lab is currently conducting to learn more about how triple negative breast cancer metastasizes in the body,” Garcia-Mata said. “It is our goal to learn more about how these protrusions form and to identify the upstream regulators and downstream effectors of the formations. Once we understand how these ivadopodia form, we can begin to research treatments to prevent or slow their progress.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has oversight over the National Cancer Institute. Background: For background on Dr. Garcia-Mata: https://www.utoledo.edu/nsm/bio/research/GarciaMata.html For Dr. Garcia-Mata’s lab website: https://garciamatalab.wix.com/garcia-mata-lab For background on the NIAID grant announcement: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:164295 For background on University of Toledo: https://utoledo.edu
07.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) of $1,500,000 in Lead Based Paint Hazard Control awards and $150,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental awards to Erie County. Erie County, through its Health Department, will address lead hazards in 80 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. The health department will collaborate with the Lorain County General Health District to facilitate the program. Erie County is one of 23 local and state government agencies which have been awarded more than $52.6 million through HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes. “The HUD award for Erie County to help combat lead hazards for our families and children who should not have their health threatened because of where they live is welcome news,” said Rep. Kaptur, who, as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, has continually supported an increase in funding for the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes program. “According to the CDC, at least four million households have children who are exposed to high levels of lead. This includes 535,000 children younger than the age of five.” “Lead hazards are particularly prevalent in low-income communities,” continued Rep. Kaptur. “Even small amounts of lead can cause serious health problems. The impact of lead poisoning ranges from reductions in cognitive function, developmental delays, behavior modification, learning disabilities, seizures, comas, and even death. The effects of lead poisoning on children are especially harmful, and the CDC has determined that there is no “safe” level of lead for a child. The annual costs of lead poisoning to society are over $50 billion, and these costs are especially regrettable since lead poisoning is 100 percent preventable.” HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes addresses lead hazards and multiple housing-related hazards affecting the health of residents, particularly children. The office develops lead-based paint regulations, guidelines, and policies applicable to HUD programs, and enforces the Lead Disclosure Rule issued under Title X. Additional information on the HUD Lead Based Paint Hazard Control Award can be found here.
07.19.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Akron-based International Chemical Workers Union Council will receive $336,157 to train “instructors to conduct hazardous materials response training programs for individuals with statutory responsibility to respond to hazardous materials accidents and incidents.” The funds are from the Department of Transportation under a competitive grant program. “We should be grateful for the work of the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW in effectively training those who will be the first to respond to chemical spills and other tragic incidents involving hazardous materials,” Kaptur said. “They too are first responders on a regular, if not daily basis, and their work is often overlooked. They protect us, in unheralded and modest ways, and this grant is credit to their dedication to protect the rest of us in the case of an accident or chemical spill.” Frank Cyphers, the President of the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW added: “We’re pleased to continue to train our members and members of the United Auto Workers and the American Federation of Government Employees who handle a range of dangerous materials that are regulated by the Department of Transportation. This grant develops these members to become worker trainers who in turn train workers on how to work safely and ensure that their employers have the appropriate controls in place. This is a cost effective measure to build the resources within their companies of staff who understand directly the hazards of their jobs.” The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) is an agency within the Department of Transportation and is authorized to award up to $4 million this fiscal year on a competitive basis. These funds support a national training program. Background from the Department of Transportation: PHMSA is awarding $3,706,538 in Hazardous Materials Instructor Training (HMIT) and Supplemental Public Sector Training (SPST) grants. The HMIT Grant Program was created under P.L. 109-59, August 10, 2005 and PHMSA is authorized to obligate up to $4 million in FY 2016 for program purposes (See 49 U.S.C. §§ 5107(e) and 5128(c)). HMIT is a competitive program whereby Grantees use funds to train instructors who then train private-sector hazardous materials (hazmat) employees. OHMS awards funds through a competitive process to nonprofit organizations that demonstrate: 1) expertise in conducting training programs for hazmat employees and 2) the ability to reach and involve in a training program a target population of hazmat employees. The SPST Grant Program was created under P.L. 103–311, August 26, 1994 and PHMSA is authorized to obligate up to $1 million in FY 2016 for program purposes (See 49 U.S.C. §§ 5116(i) and 5128(b)(4)). SPST grant funding is provided to national nonprofit fire service organizations for the purpose of training instructors to conduct hazardous materials response training programs for individuals with statutory responsibility to respond to hazardous materials accidents and incidents. Since FY 2000, PHMSA has provided SPST grants to increase the number of hazmat training instructors available to conduct training programs for local responders. Well-trained first responders play a critical role in any hazardous materials incident. The train-the-trainer grants are a force multiplier in getting more local first responders and employees prepared for when hazmat transportation incidents happen. Hazardous Materials Instructor Training grants fund the training of instructors who then train private-sector hazardous materials employees. HMIT grants are open to non-profit hazmat employee organizations demonstrating expertise in conducting train-the-trainer programs for employees. The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21) authorized DOT/PHMSA to offer the grant to all non-profit organizations that demonstrate expertise in conducting a training program for hazmat employees and the ability to reach and involve, in a training program, a target population for hazmat employees. Prior to MAP-21 the grants were only open to a total of four recipients. Four million dollars per year is available for the HMIT program. PHMSA’s Supplemental Public Sector Training grant funds national nonprofit fire service organizations to train instructors to conduct hazardous materials response training programs for local responders. The grants aids national non-profit organizations in training instructors to conduct hazardous materials response training programs for individuals with a statutory responsibility to respond to hazardous materials accidents and incidents. The SPST grant award amounts prior to 2009 were $250,000; award amounts thereafter were increased to one million dollars. Kaptur is a senior member the House Appropriations Committee that funds and has oversight responsibilities for the Department of Transportation. For more information: The Department of Transportation press release: https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/hazmat/dot-announces-over-3-7m-in-instructor-and-public-sector-hazardous-materials-safety-training-grants The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration: https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/hazmat/grants-program ###
07.19.2016	Winners Receive American Flag Flown Over US Capitol Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) announced this week that the winners of her inaugural Facebook photo contest are Kyle Burr of Avon, Ohio and Jacob Bollenbacher of Bellevue, Ohio. As a prize, Burr and Bollenbacker receive an American flag flown over the United States Capitol. Burr and Bollenbacher won the contest based on the total number of total ‘likes’ their submitted photographs received on Kaptur’s Facebook page, Twitter page, and Instagram page. Burr is a rising sophomore at Avon Lake High School and an 8-year Avon Lake resident. The photo captures the Avon Lake Marching Band on their Memorial Day parade route. As a sousaphone player in his high school band, Burr could not take the photo himself; however, he gives photo credit to his mother, whom he asked to capture the moment. Kyle’s photo received a total of 72 ‘likes’ and won the ‘Ohio 9th Congressional District’ category. The 19-year old Bollenbacher took his photo at Bollenbacher Farms in Bellevue, Ohio as his cousin, Brent, operated the combine. The cousins wanted to show their patriotism during the 2016 Fourth of July weekend as they finished up their wheat harvest. “We bought two of the biggest flags we could get. The whole neighborhood saw and we even received calls about how cool it was,” said Bollenbacher, whose photo received a total of 75 ‘likes’ and won the ‘State of Ohio’ category.
07.14.2016	700 New American-Made Jobs for Next Generation Jeep Wrangler Toledo, Ohio — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) applauded today’s announcement by Fiat Chrysler Automobiles for their planned $700 million investment in the Toledo Assembly Complex North Plant to produce the next generation Jeep Wrangler. “This is almost beyond belief, given where we were eight short years ago,” said Kaptur, the co-chair of the Congressional Auto Caucus who for the past eight years has spearheaded efforts to support the comeback of the US domestic automobile sector. “This is the great American comeback story of this century, and it’s a testament to the superb quality of the Jeep Wrangler, and the superb quality of the Toledo Assembly Complex frontline assembly workers, the plant management, the countless brilliant engineers, and its partnership with the United Auto Workers’ Local 12. For seventy-five years Toledoans have manufactured Wranglers. FCA’s investment today will ensure this legacy remains for years to come.” According to initial reports, the expansion of the North Plant will create 700 new jobs. An announcement regarding the future of the South plant is forthcoming. This production action is subject to the formal approval of incentives by state and local entities. Kaptur continued: "The auto industry is the industrial backbone of Toledo, of northern Ohio, of the Midwest, and, frankly, the nation. Its recovery, which I was privileged to support and organized for legislatively, even when it was an unpopular position to take, is reflected in the six years of continued sales growth and increased revenue data. Slowly and surely, Toledo and northern Ohio's future is being reshaped and reinforced by announcements like the one FCA is making today. When given a fair chance, we will compete and we will win.” Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur at the 2016 Detroit Auto Show
07.13.2016	~ Warns of Shortsighted Funding Limitations, Likely Delays ~ Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today praised the passage by the Senate of the Conference Report on S. 524, Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2015. Kaptur was a major booster of the House version of CARA, which passed overwhelmingly last week. The measure creates a number of new federal grant programs meant to support locally-based treatment and recovery initiatives that will be the subject of future funding debates in an era of limited resources. Given the reality of the budget constraints Kaptur was somber about CARA’s immediate impact. “The bipartisan passage of CARA is certainly a positive step, and I supported it given that the alternative is to do nothing,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “But let’s not oversell it as a panacea to the heroin and opioid epidemic. It is not. Unlike other legislative responses to similar national emergencies, CARA contains no emergency funds, which can be spent right away. That delays funding for months, perhaps years. People are overdosing every day, communities need money now.” The compromise CARA proposal was approved by the Senate on a 90 to 2 vote, after the House had approved the measure last Friday on 407-5 vote. The measure now goes to President Barack Obama’s desk for his likely approval. “This is a public health crisis that has affected every community in northern Ohio,” said Kaptur, a member of the House Heroin Task Force who has been active on building support in the House for a comprehensive measure. “It has affected families across the economic and social spectrum. No neighborhood or community has escaped this scourge, and now that concentrated synthetic fentanyl is widely available, this is an epidemic like no other.” “But the sad reality is that given the current budget limitations funds will always be limited, and likely delayed,” added Kaptur. “We can still expect partisan fights over what programs will be cut in order to fund the new CARA programs meant to address the heroin and opioid scourge that has damaged every community in Ohio. And since this Republican Congress seems once again incapable of passing a federal budget by the September 30th deadline, needed funds meant for local frontline programs that deal with providing treatment will be further delayed.” CARA’s funding shortfalls has real consequences for northern Ohio cities and communities, which has experienced a real addiction crisis and a record number of heroin and opioid fatalities. In June Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner Thomas Gilson reported a record 45 fatal overdoses attributed to either heroin or fentanyl occurred in the month of May. The total was the highest of any month in 2016, putting the county on track to have roughly 500 people die from the drugs, twice the 2015 overdose numbers. Last week Akron saw 17 suspected heroin overdoses in that one day, caused in several cases by the powerful painkiller fentanyl. In Toledo there were 215 heroin- and opioid-related deaths in 2015 in the 19 northwest Ohio counties and Branch and Hillsdale counties in Michigan for which the Lucas County Coroner’s Office performs autopsies. In 2016 the overdose death rate is up about 15 percent, with a projected annual death rate of roughly 250 heroin- and opioid-related deaths by the end of 2016. Lucas County experienced 133 heroin-related overdose deaths in 2015, with some 30 from fentanyl, a powerful synthetic opiate that is more potent than heroin or morphine. Fentanyl-related deaths have skyrocketed in the last year locally, according to Dr. Robert Forney, Lucas County's chief toxicologist. The final stages of the legislative negotiations on the CARA package were not without major disagreements in funding priorities. The Conference Committee version of CARA left funding for some important priorities at risk, and instead of protecting important treatment and prevention programs, the final compromise version rolls funding for these programs into a single block grant program in a way that threatens funding for each individual initiative. Essentially, it pits one priority against another to be decided by individual State governors and their appointees. House Democrats had attempted to add $920 million to assure funding availability, but were rebuffed by House Republicans. CARA would, among other things: expand the availability of naloxone (narcan) to law enforcement agencies and other first responders to help in the reversal of overdoses to save lives; direct the to convene a Pain Management Best Practice Inter-Agency taskforce to develop both best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication and a strategy for dissemination; launch an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention program to expand best practices throughout the country; expand resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from addiction disorders promptly by collaborating with criminal justice stakeholders and by providing evidence-based treatment; expand disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications to keep them out of the hands of our children and adolescents; require the FDA to issue final guidance for generic drugs that claim abuse deterrence within 18 months of when the measure becomes law; and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion and to help at-risk individuals access services. For background on CARA’s House-Senate conference agreement: https://energycommerce.house.gov/sites/republicans.energycommerce.house.gov/files/documents/114/20160706JES.pdf ###
07.13.2016	“A Two Year Solution to an Immediate Problem” Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that the Lorain Fire Department and the City of Lorain will receive a total of $3,181,140 in federal funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, to address its immediate staffing crisis resulting from the recent lay-offs of 22 members of the Lorain fire department. The funds are from FEMA’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. Kaptur is a member the House Fire Caucus and a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds FEMA operations. “This is obviously great news,” Kaptur said. “Credit should go to the Lorain firefighters, who have actively organized in recent weeks and made their case effectively and persuasively, and to Lorain Mayor Chase Ritenauer and Lorain Fire Chief Tom Brown. Their diligence in helping to find a solution brought about this two-year solution to an immediate problem.” In recent weeks Congresswoman Kaptur has worked with Lorain Mayor Chase Ritenauer and Lorain Fire Chief Tom Brown to secure federal funds to resolve Lorain’s immediate needs. Kaptur emphasized that this is a temporary two-year grant, and does not resolve the staffing matter beyond 2018. Mark Sanders, President of the Ohio Association of Professional Fire Fighters. added "This SAFER Grant will help the city of Lorain put fire fighters back in the firehouses to keep the community safe. SAFER Grants such as this have been instrumental in helping Ohio cities deal with the drastic cuts to local government funding from the state. Our special thanks go to Congresswoman Kaptur for working on Lorain’s behalf to fill this critical gap in funding and to get our Fire Fighters back on the job keeping Lorain safe.” Background: SAFER grants provide financial assistance to help fire departments’ increase their cadre of frontline firefighters or to rehire firefighters that have been laid off, and to recruit and/or retain volunteer firefighters. The goal of the SAFER Grant Program is to assist local fire departments with staffing and deployment capabilities in order to respond to emergencies and to ensure communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. With enhanced or restored staffing levels, grantees should see a reduction in response times and an increase in the number of trained personnel assembled at the incident scene. Eligible applicants for SAFER included volunteer and combination fire departments, career fire departments, and municipalities and fire districts. Volunteer and combination fire departments may apply for “Hiring of Firefighters” or “Recruitment and Retention of Volunteer Firefighters” category. Career fire departments may only apply for funding in the “Hiring of Firefighters” category. Municipalities and fire districts may submit applications on behalf of fire departments lacking the legal status to do so, such as those under the auspices of the municipality or district. Organizations representing the interests of volunteer firefighters and individual fire departments (volunteer or combination) may apply for funding for regional projects. SAFER grants are comprised of two primary categories, “Hiring of Firefighters” (hiring new or rehiring laid-off firefighters) and “Recruitment and Retention of Volunteer Firefighters”. The highest priority under the “Hiring of Firefighters” category will be afforded to applications that are seeking to rehire firefighters who have been laid off. The primary focus for the “Recruitment and Retention of Volunteer Firefighters” is the recruitment and/or retention of volunteer firefighters who are involved with, or trained in, the operations of firefighting and emergency response.
07.12.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that Cleveland Hopkins International Airport will receive a total of $22.1 million in airport improvement funds. Specifically, $7.1 million is meant for the purpose of purchasing new and replacement snow removal equipment and $15 million is meant for safety improvements to address ways to minimize potential runway incursions. The funds intended for new and replacement snow removal equipment are timely, as Cleveland Hopkins has been working with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in recent months to improve its snow removal practices and to avoid unsafe incursions. “This is welcome news,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. “In an era of limited resources, it’s a testament to the importance of Cleveland Hopkins to northern Ohio and the country that the FAA agrees that addressing these twin safety needs as a national funding priority.” From the two separate FAA announcements, made shortly before 1 pm today: This $7,100,000 grant will provide federal funding for the Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport in Ohio. This project will fund the acquisition of new and replacement snow removal equipment to keep the airport serviceable during snow periods and aid in the efficiency and safety of operations. This is Phase One of a four phase project. This phase includes the acquisition of four multi-purpose vehicles, two blowers, two brooms, three plows, one spreader truck, and two liquid deicer trucks. Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport is a medium-hub primary airport associated with Cleveland, Ohio. The local point of contact is Mr. Fred Szabo, Interim Director of Cleveland Airports. Following this grant announcement, FAA will notify the sponsor of the allocation. A grant offer will be issued subsequently for this grant as finally formulated. Source: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=kttm95qloh and This $15,000,000 grant will provide federal funding for the Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport in Ohio. This project will provide funds for safety improvements as part of the Federal Aviation Administration's Runway Incursion Mitigation (RIM) program to address ways to minimize potential runway incursions. This grant will provide funding for the first phase of construction, which includes the reconfiguration of taxiway connectors A, B, C and R. Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport is a medium-hub primary airport associated with Cleveland, Ohio. The local point of contact is Mr. Fred Szabo, Interim Director of Cleveland Airports. Following this grant announcement, FAA will notify the sponsor of the allocation. A grant offer will be issued subsequently for this grant as finally formulated. Source: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=yzl02s0u7i
07.09.2016	Questions Prompted by Pattern of Questionable Investment Decisions, Including 2008 Investments in Iraq, Russian Banks, and $1.4 Billion in Risky Mortgage Bonds During Housing Meltdown WASHINGTON, DC – The General Accounting Office (GAO) today confirmed that the federal watchdog agency will “review the investment decisions of the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund,” after receiving a request from Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and 40 other Members of Congress. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), who had organized a Senate request with nine other Senators, received the same response. Brown is the chair of the Senate Finance Committee Subcommittee on Social Security, Pensions, and Family Policy. The collapse in net value of the Central States Pension Fund threatens the future livelihood of roughly 400,000 retirees, almost all of whom were long- and short-haul truck drivers and delivery truck drivers. The sheer size and scope of a potential insolvency of the Central States Pension Fund, with $16.8 billion in assets and $35 billion in retiree obligations, threatens the financial solvency of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). “It’s astonishing to now read about how Wall Street firms hired by Central States invested retirees’ pension funds in Iraq in 2008, right in the middle of a full-scale war in Iraq,” said Kaptur. “Or how they invested in unstable Russian banks, when the economy there is in shambles, or how they sunk $1.4 billion into risky Single-A-rated mortgage-backed bonds in the middle of the housing meltdown. Something is simply wrong, and the GAO will get to the bottom of this.” In early May 2016 the Department of Treasury rejected the application of the Central States Pension Fund to restructure benefits paid to 277,000 retirees – 49,000 of whom are Ohioans – under terms of Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA) of 2014. Central States subsequently decided not to reapply with an amended application, which will likely result in the fund’s insolvency within a decade. The MPRA, the most significant change to pension law in the 41-year history of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), allows certain multiemployer pension plans that are in critical and declining financial status to cut already earned retiree pension benefits while a plan is still solvent. Four other pension funds currently in critical and declining financial status have also filed applications to cut benefits to current retirees, including Cleveland’s Ironworkers Local 17, the second plan to file in late December 2015; a decision on the Ironworkers Local 17 application is expected by August 4, 2016. The lawmakers’ letter listed a series of questions for the GAO to consider, including but not limited to: How did the named fiduciaries, the Independent Special Counsel (ISC), and other relevant parties ensure compliance with the consent decree and Title I of ERISA, ensure the Fund received conflict-free investment advice with reasonable fees, and the Fund operated to protect the interests of participants and beneficiaries? Are there instances where behavior was inadequate or in violation of responsibilities? Were investment decisions free of conflict of interest? If not, please identify such investments, the particular conflict(s) of interest and individuals who participated in these decisions. For each year from 1997 to 2015, what was the Central States Pension Fund’s investment strategy, how was this strategy set, who implemented the strategy (including any contracted investment managers), and how did the average annual return on investment under this strategy compare to similarly situated pension funds by asset class? How did the rate of return for each asset compare to standard benchmark indices? What was the annual asset allocation of the Fund by asset class by year from 1982 through 2015 (in both dollars and as a percent)? Was the overall asset allocation of the Fund altered in 2008? 2009? 2010-2015? What positions were sold during 2008 and 2009? How were the proceeds from these sales reinvested? What was the assumed rate of return on future investments by year and by asset class for the Fund from 1982 through 2015? How was the discount rate used to calculate future liabilities adjusted to reflect the historically low interest rates seen in the past ten years? Experts believe factors such as stock market losses, industry deregulation, and employer withdrawals contributed to the current critical and declining financial status of the Central States Pension Fund. How and when did the Fund’s investment strategy respond to these factors and were these actions timely and appropriate given fiduciary responsibilities? At any point did the Fund’s investment strategy reflect a greater than appropriate level of reliance on aggressive or alternative investments in violation of Title I of ERISA? For example, the Fund invested $1.4 billion in single-A-rated bonds at the height of the 2008 economic meltdown. If so, what was the purpose of such investments and who directed these investment decisions? How much of the Fund’s overall portfolio were invested in credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities, insured variable rate bonds or other instruments or asset classes in 2005-2010, by year, by instrument or asset class? To what extent have the interests of board members of the Fund’s investment advisors been a factor in the investment strategies or decisions made by the Fund? To what extent have the interests of the Fund’s investment committee been a factor in the investment strategies or decisions made by the Fund? Did these decisions expose fund assets to greater than appropriate levels of risk or volatility? Kaptur is the author of the Keep Our Pension Promise Act of 2015 (HR 2844), or KOPPA, to repeal the benefits suspension provisions of the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA), and is co-sponsored by 51 House colleagues; Brown is a primary co-sponsor of the Senate version of the measure, which has ten cosponsors.
07.09.2016	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today praised the passage by the U.S. House of Representatives of the Conference Report on S. 524, Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2015. Rep. Kaptur was a major booster of CARA, which establishes a comprehensive, coordinated and balanced strategy through enhanced grant programs that would expand prevention and education efforts while also promoting treatment and recovery. The bill creates a number of new locally-based initiatives that will be the subject of future funding debates in an era of limited resources. The compromise CARA proposal was approved by the House on 407-5 vote. The measure will have to be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to President Barack Obama’s desk for final approval. “This is a public health crisis that has affected every community in northern Ohio,” said Kaptur, a member of the House Heroin Task Force who has been active on building support in the House for a comprehensive measure. “It has affected families across the economic and social spectrum. No neighborhood or community has escaped this scourge, and now that concentrated synthetic fentanyl is widely available, this is an epidemic like no other.” Passage of the House version of the compromise agreement comes a month after Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner Thomas Gilson reported a record 45 fatal overdoses attributed to either heroin or fentanyl occurred in the month of May. The total was the highest of any month in 2016, putting the county on track to have roughly 500 people die from the drugs, twice the 2015 overdose numbers. On Wednesday, Akron saw 17 suspected heroin overdoses in that one day, caused in several cases by the powerful painkiller fentanyl. In Toledo there were 215 heroin- and opioid-related deaths in 2015 in the 19 northwest Ohio counties and Branch and Hillsdale counties in Michigan for which the Lucas County Coroner’s Office performs autopsies. In 2016 the overdose death rate is up about 15 percent, with a projected annual death rate of roughly 250 heroin- and opioid-related deaths by the end of 2016. Lucas County experienced 133 heroin-related overdose deaths in 2015, with some 30 from fentanyl, a powerful synthetic opiate that is more potent than heroin or morphine. Fentanyl-related deaths have skyrocketed in the last year locally, according to Dr. Robert Forney, Lucas County's chief toxicologist. Based on her experience as the dean of the Ohio congressional delegation, Kaptur qualified her praise for the measure, however, based on its lack of guarantee of future funding. “While this is progress it fails to include emergency funds,” Kaptur continued, “whether this Congress or future ones have the will and determination to put their money where their mouth is left unanswered.” The final stages of the legislative negotiations on the CARA package were not without major disagreements in funding priorities. The Conference Committee version of CARA left funding for some important priorities at risk, and instead of protecting important treatment and prevention programs, the Conference bill rolls funding for these programs into a single block grant program in a way that threatens funding for each individual initiative. Essentially, it pits one priority against another to be decided by individual State governors and their appointees. House Democrats had attempted to add $920 million to assure funding availability, but were rebuffed by House Republicans. CARA would, among other things: expand the availability of naloxone (narcan) to law enforcement agencies and other first responders to help in the reversal of overdoses to save lives; direct the to convene a Pain Management Best Practice Inter-Agency taskforce to develop both best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication and a strategy for dissemination; launch an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention program to expand best practices throughout the country; expand resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from addiction disorders promptly by collaborating with criminal justice stakeholders and by providing evidence-based treatment; expand disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications to keep them out of the hands of our children and adolescents; require the FDA to issue final guidance for generic drugs that claim abuse deterrence within 18 months of when the measure becomes law; and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion and to help at-risk individuals access services. In another development, Rep. Kaptur also praised the announcement by the Obama Administration and HHS on Wednesday to expand access and availability to effective medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for opioid addiction. HHS will now increase the number of patients a qualified health care provider can treat using MAT from 100 patients to 275 patients. “Given the overwhelming demand for treatment at all levels, this change in regulation is most welcome news,” said Kaptur. For background on CARA: https://energycommerce.house.gov/sites/republicans.energycommerce.house.gov/files/documents/114/20160706JES.pdf For background on the MAT regulation change: https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2016/07/06/hhs-announces-new-actions-combat-opioid-epidemic.html
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) joined the National Institute of Health’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to announce the award of $1,948,415 in federal research funds to The University of Toledo’s Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology research endeavors. The research project is funded for five years at $389,683 per year, and managed by The University of Toledo Medical School Professor R. Mark Wooten for the purpose of the “Intravital assessment of Borrelia burgdorferi immune clearance in skin,” which is the causative agent of Lyme disease. “This is further national recognition for the important research being done at The University of Toledo,” said Kaptur. “Lyme disease affects 300,000 Americans each year, a number far greater than previously thought, and 40% of whom end up with long-term, serious health concerns. There are no current tests available to definitively prove if the Lyme organism is eradicated or that the patient is cured. Research such as this will help us to know more about Lyme disease.” “Researchers have had a hard time gaining an accurate understanding of how this bacterium acts in humans and other hosts since they are obligate parasites (can only survive within animals, not in artificial cultures),” said Professor Wooten of The University of Toledo. “Our group at the University of Toledo College of Medicine and Life Sciences has been able to develop advanced microscopy models that allow us to directly observe the bacteria within the skin of individual intact living mice without harming the animal, and can then continuously observe how they interact with the host’s immune cells over long periods of time. This NIH-funded study will use these methods to identify key mechanisms that allow the bacteria to evade the host’s immune responses, with the hope they will provide new targets for Lyme disease-directed therapies.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has oversight over the National Institute of Health. Background: For background on Professor Wooten: https://www.utoledo.edu/med/depts/micro/faculty/wooten.html To contact Professor Wooten: r.mark.wooten@utoledo.edu For background on the NIAID grant announcement: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:161830 For background on The University of Toledo: https://utoledo.edu/
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) continued to press for reasonable laws that will keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them. Kaptur called on Republican leadership to allow a House vote on a bipartisan measure that would prevent those on the FBI’s terrorist “No Fly” watch list from purchasing firearms or explosives. Both of Kaptur’s attempts were rejected on procedural grounds, and not subject to further debate on the merits of the “No Fly, No Buy” legislation. “For far too long gun violence has taken a terrible toll on America’s families,” said Kaptur. “We have a moral responsibility to enact reasonable, common-sense bipartisan measures to prevent needless death and injuries, while also ensuring individual constitutional rights.” In this photo from the House Floor, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur joins Rep. Maxine Waters in calling for a House Vote on common sense gun legislation. In this photo from the House Floor, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur joins Rep. Maxine Waters in calling for a House Vote on common sense gun legislation. House Democrats have pressed in recent weeks for an up-or-down vote on a bipartisan measure authored by Republican Peter King (R-NY), the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, to prohibit individuals on the FBI’s terrorist watch list from purchasing firearms or explosives. Roughly 30,000 Americans a year die from the use of a firearm, a number that has been fairly consistent for the past fifteen years. Moreover, roughly 100,000 Americans are injured in firearms-related incidents. To put that in perspective, nearly 500,000 Americans have died, and 1.5 million Americans have been injured, since September 11, 2001. “This isn’t a choice between personal freedom and public safety,” declared Kaptur. “We can do both. There are reasonable solutions that do more to keep guns out of the hands of criminals, the dangerously mentally ill, and – God forbid – terrorists."
07.07.2016	House Floor Maneuver Blocks Kaptur’s Effort to Restore Tough Delivery and Service Standards WASHINGTON, DC — The chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), today blocked a provision authored by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) that had been incorporated last month into the House Appropriations Committee’s Financial Services and General Government funding measure for fiscal year 2017, which begins on October 1, 2016. The measure was stripped from the funding bill on a procedural move after Chairman Chaffetz raised a ‘point of order,’ and not on the merits of the Kaptur provision. Rep. Chaffetz’s challenge was upheld by an almost completely partisan House vote of 220 to 168; one lone Republican voted for keeping the provision in the funding measure. The Kaptur provision would have required the United States Postal Service (USPS) to restore the tougher standards for delivery service that the USPS abandoned in 2012. The provision was included by voice vote to the annual funding bill for a wide range of federal agencies, including the United States Postal Service, or USPS. Kaptur’s provision would reverse the 2012 decision by the USPS management to lower its service delivery standards for First Class mail and periodicals. “This is a setback for restoring improved mail delivery,” said Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations panel. “Postal management’s decision to close 83 regional sorting facilities backfired, causing needless delays in first class mail and magazines, for example, and costing more through unanticipated increases in transportation, gasoline and delivery truck maintenance costs.” USPS management has conceded that its decision in January 2015 to close regional sorting facilities not only slowed the mail but actually lost the agency money – exceeding savings by $66 million in 2015. This is because the plan to close plants and slow the mail has cost an additional $130 million in transportation costs. Sadly, delayed mail has become our new reality. However, that is not the promise made to the American people. State and local officials, small businesses and Members of Congress continue to hear from the public about the abysmal state of late mail. Medical prescriptions, graduation gifts, bill payments and notices, wedding and meeting invitations are all arriving late – in spite of being mailed extra early. Since the standards were lowered by postal service management, timely processing and delivery of mail has been delayed. According to an August 2015 finding by the USPS’ own Inspector General, “the amount of mail that failed to meet delivery targets in the first six months of 2015 increased 48 percent over the same period in 2014 – despite the new, more relaxed standards.” The timely processing and delivery of mail is critical. USPS delivers 154 billion pieces of mail annually to 155 million delivery points, accounting for 47 percent of the world’s mail. This equals more than 20 times the volume of the total business for UPS and FedEx, the two giant private delivery firms. Such additional transportation expenses are evident in the Toledo area, where outbound mail sorting was transferred from a local Toledo facility to three separate facilities located near Detroit, Michigan in July 2013. Mail intended for the Toledo area was also shifted in April 2015, but to Detroit. Rep. Kaptur’s language adopted by the full Appropriations Committee was simple and direct: “Provided further, That the Postal Service shall maintain and comply with service standards for First Class Mail and periodicals effective on July 1, 2012’’. Congressional support for reversing USPS cuts in service standards is strong. To date, 233 House members – Republicans and Democrats – have cosponsored H.Res. 54, to require the Postal Service to “take all appropriate measures to restore service standards in effect as of July 1, 2012.” Rep. Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) is encouraging apprenticeship programs in northern Ohio to submit applications for a Department of Labor program, “ApprenticeshipUSA Industry Intermediary Contracts,” that will allow local or regional apprenticeship programs to expand to meet the occupational and skill needs of their respective industries. The deadline for such applications is July 28, 2016 at 2 p.m. The U.S. Department of Labor will award both single and multi-industry contracts to local industry associations, joint labor management organizations, workforce groups, educational institutions, and consortia of organizations and will provide financial and technical assistance to employers pursuing apprenticeship training. The single-industry contracts will support the growth of apprenticeship programs in the healthcare, construction, transportation and logistics, energy, manufacturing, and information and communications technology sectors. The department will also award up to four multi-industry contracts to organizations to help employers from different sectors grow their apprenticeship programs and work together to create a pipeline of skilled workers. “Northern Ohio’s apprentice programs are nationally-recognized and should compete for these available funds,” said Kaptur. “Our apprenticeship programs excel at skills training, which when combined with education are the surest pathways to a lifetime of good-paying jobs and a growing, stable local economy. By expanding the ApprenticeshipUSA program, the momentum is building among employers, labor and colleges because the earn-while-you-learn model helps both workers looking to move into the middle-class and for employers looking to grow.” The U.S. Department of Labor reports that 91% of apprentice graduates remain employed after completing their programs, with average annual starting wages above $50,000. The return on investment for employers is substantial, as study data indicates that for every dollar spent on apprenticeship training, employers receive average of $1.47 return in increased productivity, reduced waste and greater front-line innovation. According to the Department of Labor’s announcement, the ApprenticeshipUSA Industry Intermediary Contracts are the third installment of a $90 million funding strategy to grow and diversify apprenticeship announced in April 2016. These investments build on historic, bipartisan congressional support and follow an unprecedented $175 million investment in apprenticeship announced by the Obama administration in September 2015. Instructions and the requirements on how to submit the required Requests for Proposals are available at www.fbo.gov. Applications must be received by 2 p.m. EDT, July 28, 2016.
07.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) praised the recent announcement by the federal Department of Labor that Toledo’s Goodwill Industries of Northwest Ohio will receive $1,359,812 in ‘Training to Work’ funds. These funds will provide local area residents released from incarceration and in a state or local work-release program the education, training and workforce skills-training, to produce skilled workers who meet the needs of local employers. Toledo’s Goodwill Industries was one of sixteen programs selected nationally. “The ‘Training to Work 3- Adult Reentry’ grant is a solution to the growing economic problem of poverty and recidivism in Northwest Ohio,” said Bob Huber, President and Chief Executive Officer of Goodwill Industries of Northwest Ohio, Inc. “Through this investment, Goodwill will collaborate with local employers, training providers, and workforce development organizations to empower returning citizens with vocational training with in-demand professions in the region.” The goal of the ‘Training to Work’ program is to reduce the high rate of recidivism of those who serve time in state or federal prison. Currently, four in ten inmates return to prison within three years of release. A 2013 comprehensive study by the Rand Corporation reported that “prison inmates who receive general education and vocational training are significantly less likely to return to prison after release and are more likely to find employment than peers who do not receive such opportunities.” “This has all the potential of a win-win-win,” said Kaptur. “By providing job and skills training this program has the potential to reduce the high costs of incarceration, reduce future criminal activity, and offer those who served their time a second chance become active members of their communities.” The 2013 Rand Corporation report offered promise for job training programs, such as the Toledo Goodwill Industries program: “Employment after release was 13 percent higher among prisoners who participated in either academic or vocational education programs than those who did not. Those who participated in vocational training were 28 percent more likely to be employed after release from prison than who did not receive such training.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Labor and its job-training programs. Background from the federal Department of Labor (https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20160624) : Training to Work The program will award grants totaling $21.2 million to 16 organizations to serve individuals in high-poverty and high-crime areas, including U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-designated Promise Zones, which have a large proportion of citizens returning from incarceration and typically experience high rates of recidivism. These grants offer returning citizens in a state or local work release program an opportunity to participate in a career pathway program that defines and maps out a sequence of education, training and workforce skills training resulting in skilled workers that meets the needs of local employers. Additionally, these programs will provide services such as case management, mentoring, and follow-up services. Training to Work Grantees City State Amount The Dannon Project Birmingham Ala. $1,360,000 Volunteers of America of Los Angeles Los Angeles Calif. $1,360,000 OIC of Broward, dba OIC of South Florida Ft. Lauderdale Fla. $1,360,000 Tampa Bay Academy of Hope Inc. Tampa Fla. $1,360,000 Emerson Park Development Corp. East St. Louis Ill. $1,357,275 Workforce Inc. Indianapolis Ind. $1,360,000 Goodwill Industries of Greater Grand Rapids Inc. Grandville Mich. $1,200,000 Fathers` Support Center Saint Louis Inc. St. Louis Mo. $1,359,872 Foundation for an Independent Tomorrow Las Vegas Nev. $1,360,000 Structured Employment Economic Development Corp. New York N.Y. $1,360,000 PathStone Corp. Rochester N.Y. $1,000,000 Greater Durham Workforce Development Board Durham N.C. $1,360,000 The RIDGE Project Inc. McClure Ohio $1,360,000 Goodwill Industries of Northwest Ohio Inc. Toledo Ohio $1,359,812 TRWIB Inc. (Three Rivers Workforce Investment Board) Pittsburgh Pa. $1,358,939 SER - Jobs for Progress of the Texas Gulf Coast Inc. Houston Texas $1,359,995 Background: https://www.rand.org/news/press/2013/08/22.html https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR266.html https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20160624
07.01.2016	Winners to Receive American Flag Flown Over US Capitol Toledo, Ohio – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur is hosting an American flag photo contest on her congressional Facebook page, at www.facebook.com/RepresentativeMarcyKaptur/, with three winners set to receive an American flag flown over the United States Capitol. To compete, simply post your favorite current or past photo of your American flag on the top post of Kaptur’s Facebook page. The photo will be re-posted on Kaptur’s Twitter account (https://twitter.com/RepMarcyKaptur ) and Instagram account (https://www.instagram.com/repmarcykaptur/) . The person who receives the most 'likes' from the combination of the Facebook photo submission, and the subsequent posts on Kaptur’s Twitter and Instagram accounts will win an American flag flown over the United States Capitol. There will be a category winner for 1) residents of Ohio's 9th congressional district; 2) Ohio residents; and 3) all others not fortunate enough to live in Ohio. The contest deadline to post an American flag photo on Kaptur’s Facebook page is 11:59 pm on July 3, 2016. Good luck, Happy 4th of July, and God bless America!
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded the announcement by the federal Department of Homeland Security that Ottawa County will receive $102,149 in homeland security funds to assist local governments and law enforcement departments plan, equip, train and exercise to “prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.” Funding for the State of Ohio totaled $18,626,391. “We live in a dangerous world,” said Kaptur. “Whether it’s domestic terrorism, with Orlando two weeks ago, or international terrorism, with Istanbul yesterday, the harsh reality is we need to take every possible reasonable step to prepare for potential threats and to protect ourselves.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Homeland Security. Attached please find background materials prepared by the federal Department of Homeland Security on these grant awards, including: FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program: State Homeland Security Program Ohio- $7,698,000 FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Operation Stonegarden Ohio- $700,763 Ottawa- $102,149 FY 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant Program Ohio- $10,122,943
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded the announcement by the federal Department of Homeland Security that Erie County will receive $106,909 in homeland security funds to assist local governments and law enforcement departments plan, equip, train and exercise to “prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.” Funding for the State of Ohio totaled $18,626,391. “We live in a dangerous world,” said Kaptur. “Whether it’s domestic terrorism, with Orlando two weeks ago, or international terrorism, with Istanbul yesterday, the harsh reality is we need to take every possible reasonable step to prepare for potential threats and to protect ourselves.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Homeland Security. Attached please find background materials prepared by the federal Department of Homeland Security on these grant awards, including: FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program: State Homeland Security Program Ohio- $7,698,000 FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Operation Stonegarden Ohio- $700,763 Erie- $106,909 FY 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant Program Ohio- $10,122,943
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded the announcement by the federal Department of Homeland Security that Toledo and Lucas County will receive $155,102 in homeland security funds to assist local governments and law enforcement departments plan, equip, train and exercise to “prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.” Funding for the State of Ohio totaled $18,626,391. “We live in a dangerous world,” said Kaptur. “Whether it’s domestic terrorism, with Orlando two weeks ago, or international terrorism, with Istanbul yesterday, the harsh reality is we need to take every possible reasonable step to prepare for potential threats and to protect ourselves.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Homeland Security. Attached please find background materials prepared by the federal Department of Homeland Security on these grant awards, including: FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program: State Homeland Security Program Ohio- $7,698,000 FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Operation Stonegarden Ohio- $700,763 Lucas- $97,389 FY 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant Program Ohio- $10,122,943 FY 2016 Port Security Grant Program Toledo: OH DNR Division of Watercraft: $57,713
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded the announcement by the federal Department of Homeland Security that Lorain County will receive $111,669 in homeland security funds to assist local governments and law enforcement departments plan, equip, train and exercise to “prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.” Funding for the State of Ohio totaled $18,626,391. “We live in a dangerous world,” said Kaptur. “Whether it’s domestic terrorism, with Orlando two weeks ago, or international terrorism, with Istanbul yesterday, the harsh reality is we need to take every possible reasonable step to prepare for potential threats and to protect ourselves.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Homeland Security. Attached please find background materials prepared by the federal Department of Homeland Security on these grant awards, including: FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program: State Homeland Security Program Ohio- $7,698,000 FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Operation Stonegarden Ohio- $700,763 Lorain- $111,669 FY 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant Program Ohio- $10,122,943
06.29.2016	Directed to Cleveland & Cuyahoga County WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded the announcement by the federal Department of Homeland Security that Cleveland and Cuyahoga County will receive $4,273,896 in homeland security funds to assist local governments and law enforcement departments plan, equip, train and exercise to “prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.” Funding for the State of Ohio totaled $18,626,391. “We live in a dangerous world,” said Kaptur. “Whether it’s domestic terrorism, with Orlando two weeks ago, or international terrorism, with Istanbul yesterday, the harsh reality is we need to take every possible reasonable step to prepare for potential threats and to protect ourselves.” Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which has oversight over the federal Department of Homeland Security. Attached please find background materials prepared by the federal Department of Homeland Security on these grant awards, including: FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program: State Homeland Security Program Ohio- $7,698,000 FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Urban Area Security Initiative Ohio- Cleveland Area $2,962,000 (no other area specified) FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program Operation Stonegarden Ohio- $700,763 Cuyahoga- $102,149 FY 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant Program Ohio- $10,122,943 FY 2016 Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program Ohio- Cleveland Area $201,899 (no other area specified) FY 2016 Nonprofit Security Grant Program Funded Organizations Ohio- Cleveland Area: B’nai Jeshurun Congregation, The Mandel Jewish Community Center, Yeshiva Derech Ha Torah (YDT) (no other area specified) FY 2016 Port Security Grant Program Ohio- Belpre, Cincinnati and Cleveland: Metroparks- $4,286 Cuyahoga County Port Authority- $74,250 Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department: $47,889 State of Ohio Department of Natural Resources: $39,075 FY 2016 Transit Security Grant Program Ohio- The Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority: $467,593 (no other area specified) FY 2016 Intercity Bus Security Grant Program Ohio- Baron’s Bus, Inc.: $65,610 and Precious Cargo Transportation Inc.: $19,325
06.29.2016	Kaptur: Postal Banking, Reverse Sorting Facility Closures CLEVELAND – Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) last night joined a coalition of local Cleveland community leaders at a special hearing calling for improvements to the U.S. Postal Service, where she highlighted her ideas on co-locating traditional banking services in existing Cleveland post offices and a return to traditional mail delivery standards. “In many ways this is a management challenge,” said Rep. Kaptur. “What’s needed is vision and strategic thinking.” For example, Kaptur proposes ‘postal banking,’ or co-locating traditional banking or credit union services within existing Cleveland post offices. The postal banking services could range from paycheck cashing and bill payment to savings accounts and small dollar loans. “At a time when banks and other institutions are abandoning inner city communities, Cleveland’s post offices present a perfect opportunity to co-locate with traditional banks or credit unions,” stated Kaptur. Kaptur has also been active on forcing the Postal Service management to reverse its recent decisions to lower mail delivery standards, citing the closure of 83 sorting facilities, such as in Toledo, as resulting in mail delivery delays, and which actually cost more in added transportation expenses than it did in facility operations. “That decision backfired drastically, cost the bottom line far more money than it saved,” said Kaptur. “The Postal Service now spends more to truck mail to distant sorting facilities than it would to maintain locally-based sorting facilities. We now have the worst of both worlds – higher costs and slower mail.” Postal Banking: More than 40% of Cleveland’s residents have no checking accounts or are “underbanked,” according to the Assets and Opportunity Local Data Center. The Center reports that 18.6% of Cleveland households have no checking or savings account, and 24.1% of households are “underbanked,” forced to use costly payday firms or currency exchange stores to cash paychecks or make consumer loans. More than 35% of Cleveland’s 389,000 residents live below the federal poverty line, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Nationwide, 28% of U.S. households are underserved by traditional banks, with African American (54%) and Latino (47%) households far more underserved. Many post offices are located in ‘bank deserts.’ Fifty-nine percent of post offices are in zip codes with either zero banks (38%) or only one bank branch (21%). Cleveland’s Postal Service is geographically well-positioned to reach people with little-to-no access to retail banking services. Restoring Mail Delivery Standards: In January 2015, the Postal Service management revealed a national plan to lower mail delivery standards, or targets, while closing 83 regional sorting facilities, including the Toledo sorting facility in May 2015, a move that essentially ended overnight local delivery of first class mail and periodicals. While intended to save operation costs through facility closures, the Postal Service action actually lost $66 million annually, and incurred $130 million in additional transportation costs due to the constant hauling of mail to other sorting facilities. For example, local Toledo mail is taken by truck several times a day to three different facilities in Michigan, specifically in Pontiac, Downtown Detroit and Allen Park, and once sorted are then returned to Toledo for route delivery. As a result of the Toledo sorting facility closure, mail intended for Toledo-area residents is noticeably delayed, prompting a growing and understandable frustration of Toledo and northwest Ohio residents. Kaptur Postal Amendment In early June 2016, during the House Appropriations Committee consideration of next year’s funding for Financial Services-related agencies, which includes the U.S. Postal Service, Rep. Kaptur offered an amendment to require the Postal Service to maintain and comply with service standards for 1st class mail and periodicals that were effective on July 1, 2012. That proposal would in effect require the Postal Service to re-open as many as 83 of the closed regional sorting facilities. Kaptur’s amendment passed on a bipartisan voice vote, and will likely be considered by the full Congress in July during the Financial Services funding debate before the full House. Background: Without any taxpayer funding, the USPS serves 150 million households and businesses each day, providing affordable, universal mail service to all. The USPS is a trusted, accessible, and secure government agency with the world’s largest retail network -- 31,000 branches serving every urban, suburban, and rural community in the country. The Cleveland event was the fourth of five scheduled hearings held nationwide by ‘A Grand Alliance to Save Our Public Postal Service,’ a coalition of more than 130 civil rights, faith-based environmental, senior citizen, civic and labor organizations. Rep. Kaptur is a senior member on the House Appropriations Committee.
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) recently joined nearly 200 of her Democratic House colleagues, including Congressman John Lewis (D-Georgia), and Ohio’s Congresswomen Marcia Fudge and Joyce Beatty, in a historic ‘sit-in’ of the House of Representatives to demonstrate on behalf of a debate and vote on reasonable gun control measures. "I am proud to join with fellow Democrats to say 'enough is enough,' said Kaptur on Thursday. "That's what they said last October when four young children were shot in Cleveland in a month. One of them was 5 months old, Avia Wakefield, who was shot in the chest and she was in the car with her mother and her grandmother." Continuing, Kaptur said "Ohio is one of 21 states where more people die from guns than die in motor vehicle accidents. Since 1999 in Ohio 17,476 of our citizens have died from guns. That's one every eight hours. And I looked at the statistics from Cleveland, Toledo, what is really disemboweling is to see the age of those getting killed is getting younger with each decade. The numbers start going up and those who are killed are younger and younger. We need Congress to fix this." The focus of the demonstration was support for modest legislation authored by Congressman Peter King (R-New York) to prohibit purchase of firearms and explosives by individuals placed by the FBI on the terrorist ‘No Fly, No Buy’ watch. Kaptur sought to find a bipartisan compromise to a pending terrorist ‘No Fly, No Buy’ amendment before the annual appropriations measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security. Her attempt at a compromise was rebuffed by Republicans who were caught off guard by her request. After a lively debate, the amendment was defeated, 31-16. Kaptur attempted to work out compromise language on the level of suspicion required to prohibit individuals on the terrorist ‘no-fly’ watch list from purchasing a firearm. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2016, since February 2004, when the National Instant Criminal Background Check System began checking prospective gun buyers against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's terrorist watch list, individuals on the watch list have had their backgrounds checked for firearms purchases 2,477 times -- with 2,265 of those transactions allowed to proceed to purchase the firearm, and 212 were denied. That is a 91 percent approval rate. “Why are some defending people who are reasonably suspected by the FBI to be terrorists, or terrorist sympathizers? If there is reasonable suspicion that an individual belongs on the terrorist ‘no fly’ watch list then they should not be able to buy an AR-15, or any other firearm,” Kaptur declared. “No fly, no buy.” The March 2016 GAO report is here: https://www.feinstein.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=F53C4195-430D-4D8D-ACDE-1EC53E97D0FA&SK=EF4E6FF4158FFA49E570234A3DE8E438 Photo, from left: Rep. Joyce Beatty; Rep. Marcia Fudge; Rep. John Lewis; Rep. Marcy Kaptur.
06.22.2016	Deadline is July 19, 2015 Toledo, Ohio– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) encourages small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture and private non-profits located in Ohio’s 9th congressional district and which suffered economic losses as a result of months of 2015’s extreme weather to consider applying for low-interest disaster loans from the federal Small Business Administration, or SBA. The deadline for the SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program is July 19, 2016, and applicants must prove that they suffered economic losses as a result of the excessive rain, flash flooding, flooding, excessive heat, landslides, mudslides, high winds, hail and lightning which occurred from March 1 through August 25, 2015. The disaster declaration includes Cuyahoga, Erie, Lorain, Lucas, Ottawa counties in Ohio’s 9th congressional district. According to the SBA, the disaster loan program “is available to eligible farm-related and nonfarm-related entities that suffered financial losses as a direct result of this disaster. With the exception of aquaculture enterprises, SBA cannot provide disaster loans to agricultural producers, farmers and ranchers.” Moreover, the “loans are for working capital and can be up to $2 million with interest rates of 4 percent for eligible small businesses and 2.625 percent for nonprofit organizations, and terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the applicant, type of activity and its financial resources. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant’s financial condition. These working capital loans may be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable, and other bills that could have been paid had the disaster not occurred. The loans are not intended to replace lost sales or profits.” Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Disaster loan information and application forms may also be obtained by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can be downloaded from www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. Submit completed loan applications to SBA no later than July 19, 2016. ### For more information about the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program, visit our website at www.sba.gov/disaster.
06.22.2016	Video of Appropriations Debate Washington, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) today sought to find a bipartisan compromise to a pending terrorist ‘No Fly, No Buy’ amendment before the annual appropriations measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2016. Her attempt at a compromise was rebuffed on a voice vote after a lively debate, and the amendment was defeated, 31-16. Kaptur attempted to work out compromise language on her colleague Rep. Nita Lowey’s amendment to prohibit only those individuals on the terrorist ‘no-fly’ watch list from purchasing a firearm. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2016, since February 2004, when the National Instant Criminal Background Check System began checking prospective gun buyers against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's terrorist watch list, individuals on the watch list have had their backgrounds checked for firearms purchases 2,477 times -- with 2,265 of those transactions allowed to proceed to purchase the firearm, and 212 were denied. That is a 91 percent approval rate. “Why are some defending people who are reasonably suspected by the FBI to be terrorists, or terrorist sympathizers? If there is reasonable suspicion that an individual belongs on the terrorist ‘no fly’ watch list then they should not be able to buy an AR-15, or any other firearm,” Kaptur declared. “No fly, no buy.” See the actual debate, which lasts seven minutes, here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpSDVIc-py0&feature=youtu.be&t=4440 The March 2016 GAO report is here: https://www.feinstein.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=F53C4195-430D-4D8D-ACDE-1EC53E97D0FA&SK=EF4E6FF4158FFA49E570234A3DE8E438
06.21.2016	Questions Prompted by 2008 Pension Investments in Iraqi and Russian Banks, $1.4 Billion in Risky Mortgage Bonds During Housing Meltdown WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) today released a letter to the Government Accountability Office, the federal government’s investigative agency, calling on a comprehensive “review of the investment decisions of the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund.” News reports of the apparent mishandling of the Central States Pension Fund investments, which now threaten the future livelihood of roughly 400,000 retirees, prompted the letter, which was signed by 10 Senators and 41 Members of Congress. “It’s astonishing to now read about how Wall Street firms hired by Central States invested retirees’ pension funds in Iraqi banks in 2008, right in the middle of a full-scale war in Iraq,” said Kaptur. “Or how they invested in unstable Russian banks, when the economy there is in shambles, or how they sunk $1.4 billion into risky Single-A-rated mortgage-backed bonds in the middle of the housing meltdown. Something is simply wrong, and the GAO will get to the bottom of this.” In early May 2016 the Department of Treasury rejected the application of the Central States Pension Fund to restructure benefits paid to 277,000 retirees – 49,000 of whom are Ohioans – under terms of Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA) of 2014. Central States subsequently decided not to reapply with an amended application, which will likely result in the fund’s insolvency within a decade. The MPRA, the most significant change to pension law in the 41-year history of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), allows certain multiemployer pension plans that are in critical and declining financial status to cut already earned retiree pension benefits while a plan is still solvent. Four other pension funds currently in critical and declining financial status have also filed applications to cut benefits to current retirees, including Cleveland’s Ironworkers Local 17, the second plan to file in late December 2015; a decision on the Ironworkers Local 17 application is expected by August 4, 2016. The sheer size and scope of a potential insolvency of the Central States Pension Fund, with $16.8 billion in assets and $35 billion in retiree obligations, threatens the financial solvency of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). The lawmakers’ letter lists a series of questions for the GAO to consider, including but not limited to: · How did the named fiduciaries, the Independent Special Counsel (ISC), and other relevant parties ensure compliance with the consent decree and Title I of ERISA, ensure the Fund received conflict-free investment advice with reasonable fees, and the Fund operated to protect the interests of participants and beneficiaries? Are there instances where behavior was inadequate or in violation of responsibilities? Were investment decisions free of conflict of interest? If not, please identify such investments, the particular conflict(s) of interest and individuals who participated in these decisions. · For each year from 1997 to 2015, what was the Central States Pension Fund’s investment strategy, how was this strategy set, who implemented the strategy (including any contracted investment managers), and how did the average annual return on investment under this strategy compare to similarly situated pension funds by asset class? How did the rate of return for each asset compare to standard benchmark indices? · What was the annual asset allocation of the Fund by asset class by year from 1982 through 2015 (in both dollars and as a percent)? Was the overall asset allocation of the Fund altered in 2008? 2009? 2010-2015? What positions were sold during 2008 and 2009? How were the proceeds from these sales reinvested? · What was the assumed rate of return on future investments by year and by asset class for the Fund from 1982 through 2015? How was the discount rate used to calculate future liabilities adjusted to reflect the historically low interest rates seen in the past ten years? · Experts believe factors such as stock market losses, industry deregulation, and employer withdrawals contributed to the current critical and declining financial status of the Central States Pension Fund. How and when did the Fund’s investment strategy respond to these factors and were these actions timely and appropriate given fiduciary responsibilities? · At any point did the Fund’s investment strategy reflect a greater than appropriate level of reliance on aggressive or alternative investments in violation of Title I of ERISA? For example, the Fund invested $1.4 billion in single-A-rated bonds at the height of the 2008 economic meltdown. If so, what was the purpose of such investments and who directed these investment decisions? · How much of the Fund’s overall portfolio were invested in credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities, insured variable rate bonds or other instruments or asset classes in 2005-2010, by year, by instrument or asset class? · To what extent have the interests of board members of the Fund’s investment advisors been a factor in the investment strategies or decisions made by the Fund? To what extent have the interests of the Fund’s investment committee been a factor in the investment strategies or decisions made by the Fund? Did these decisions expose fund assets to greater than appropriate levels of risk or volatility? Kaptur is the author of the Keep Our Pension Promise Act of 2015 (HR 2844),orKOPPA, to repeal the benefits suspension provisions of the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA), and is co-sponsored by 51 House colleagues; Brown is a primary co-sponsor of the Senate version of the measure, which has ten cosponsors. ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) was thwarted today in her attempt to restore $394 million federal funding to finance state-based wastewater infrastructure projects, called the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. This fund allows Ohio’s cities and counties to borrow from a self-perpetuating pool of funds to make improvements and upgrades to sewers and wastewater systems which ensure clean water for lakes and rivers, such as Lake Erie. Kaptur’s amendment was rejected 17 to 31 on a mostly party-line vote. “Many of you know how important water is to me and my Ohio district,” said Kaptur. “In fact, by area, I represent much more water than I do land. As such, I worry a great deal about the choices made in this bill which cuts overall funding for water infrastructure by 10% compared to last year and wastewater investment by over 30%.” According to the Congressional Budget Office, or CBO, since 1977, federal spending on water infrastructure has fallen from over $16 billion to under $5 billion. Today, only 4 percent of funding for local water projects are federal dollars. The EPA estimates that it would require a minimum of $35 billion for safe water infrastructure to guarantee the public safe drinking water. “Keeping our rivers and lakes clean, makes it easier to have safe drinking water which in turn flows back into our fresh bodies of water,” stated Kaptur. “Last August, my constituents in the City of Toledo paid an extra $400,000 on chemicals to treat polluted water from Lake Erie due to algal blooms.” The Toledo Water Crisis cost the city government over $200,000 in cleanup costs alone, not counting untold millions in lost business and tax revenue, and Toledo residents currently face a looming burden of $58 million to upgrade the city’s water supply system. According to the EPA, the State of Ohio currently has made 1,256 revolving loans, for a total of 2,466 projects, from $5,137,145,030 in available loan funds. Ohio has the second-largest state revolving loan program in the nation, next to California. [Source: https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-06/documents/cwsrf_cumulative_reporting_summary.pdf ] The US Conference of Mayors reported recently that local spending on water systems doubled between the years 2002 and 2012, reflecting a growing trend to relegate funding responsibility to local cities, towns and counties. In the past twenty years only once has funding in real terms for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds fallen below the proposed funding levels for the next fiscal year, which begins on October 1, 2016. Kaptur offered her amendment during the legislative debate today before the House Appropriations Committee on the spending bill for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, and some smaller environmental agencies. Congresswoman Kaptur serves as the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. For more background on the Clean Water Revolving Loan Fund:https://www.epa.gov/cwsrf ###
06.12.2016	Toledo, Ohio — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today issued the following statement in honor of the life of George Voinovich, who ably served as Cleveland Mayor, Ohio Governor, and Ohio’s United State Senator: “Ohio and our nation has lost one of its most dedicated and effective public servants. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife Janet and their entire family. As Mayor, Governor and S‎enator, George Voinovich built a distinguished legacy, impacted every community in our state. Cleveland began its renaissance with his concerted, unyielding tutelage. As Senator, he helped guide freedom forward globally, with a particular dedication to Eastern and Central Europe in the wake of Soviet repression. It was my privilege to work with him, on a bipartisan basis, and always find common ground, in the public interest. May the angels carry him to a restful peace and bring his grieving family solace during this difficult time.” ###
06.10.2016	Amendment Passes Committee to Restore Tough Delivery and Service Standards WASHINGTON, DC— WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today offered an amendment that was accepted by the House Appropriations Committee in the Financial Services and General Government bill to require the United States Postal Service (USPS) to restore the tougher standards for delivery service that the USPS abandoned in 2012. The provision was included by voice vote to the annual funding bill for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1, 2016, for a wide range of federal agencies, including the USPS. The amendment would reverse the 2012 decision by the USPS to lower its service delivery standards for First Class mail and periodicals. “Delayed mail harms families, businesses, rural and urban communities, and is a drag on our economy,” said Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations panel. “Sadly, delayed mail has become our new reality. However, that is not the promise made to the American people. State and local officials, small businesses and Members of Congress continue to hear from the public about the abysmal state of late mail. Medical prescriptions, graduation gifts, bill payments and notices, wedding and meeting invitations are all arriving late – in spite of being mailed extra early. This must change.” Since the standards were lowered by postal service management, timely processing and delivery of mail has been delayed. According to an August 2015 finding by the USPS’ own Inspector General, “the amount of mail that failed to meet delivery targets in the first six months of 2015 increased 48 percent over the same period in 2014 – despite the new, more relaxed standards.” The timely processing and delivery of mail is critical. USPS delivers 154 billion pieces of mail annually to 155 million delivery points, accounting for 47 percent of the world’s mail. This equals more than 20 times the volume of the total business for UPS and FedEx, the two giant private delivery firms. Further undermining the rationale behind the cuts to service, USPS has admitted that its move to close plants and slow the mail actually lost the agency money – exceeding savings by $66 million in 2015. This is because the plan to close plants and slow the mail has cost an additional $130 million in transportation costs. Such additional transportation expenses are evident in the Toledo area, where outbound mail sorting was transferred from a local Toledo facility to one located in Pontiac, Michigan in July 2013. Mail intended for the Toledo area was also shifted in April 2015, but to Detroit. Rep. Kaptur’s language adopted today was simple and direct: “Provided further, That the Postal Service shall maintain and comply with service standards for First Class Mail and periodicals effective on July 1, 2012’’. Congressional support for reversing USPS cuts in service standards is strong. To date, 233 House members – Republicans and Democrats – have cosponsored H.Res. 54, to require the Postal Service to “take all appropriate measures to restore service standards in effect as of July 1, 2012.” Rep. Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.09.2016	It’s my privilege to welcome Congressman Warren Davidson, his wife Lisa, and their two beautiful children, Rachel and Zach, to Washington, DC. To the Davidsons, their extended family, and their friends who are here to support them, we all wish you hearty ‘congratulations.’ To Congressman-elect Davidson, on behalf of a grateful nation, I want to extend our gratitude for your many years of service in the United States Army. Thank you for your dedication to duty, honor and country. Though I am dean of Ohio’s delegation, it seems like just yesterday when I was in your shoes. This moment you will never forget. You’ve worked hard to put together a winning coalition to win a hard-fought campaign. That takes a dedicated person, and a very giving family, to make the necessary sacrifices. To accomplish worthy objectives during your time in Congress, you’ll want to find issues that you can build coalitions around, and then enlist others on both sides of the center aisle in that cause. Perhaps the best advice I can give you is stay close to the people where you come from: The citizens of Troy, Ohio. The citizens of Clark,Miami, Darke, Preble and Butler counties. And as Daniel Webster’s words inspire though the ages, dedicate our efforts to a higher cause: “Let us develop the resources of our land, call forth our powers, build up its institutions, promote all its great interests, and see whether we also, in our day and generation, may not perform something worthy to be remembered.” Welcome to the United States House of Representatives, Warren and Lisa. ###
06.06.2016	U.S. Reps. Kaptur, Latta, U.S. Senators Brown, Portman Attended Toledo, OH – Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James visited the Toledo Air National Guard Base and the 180th Fighter Wing on Monday, June 6, 2016 as part of the competitive evaluation process for assigning the F-35A Joint Strike Fighter to the 180th Fighter Wing. Secretary James toured the facility, had lunch with Airmen, and received extensive briefings from Toledo Air National Guard Base leadership and a bipartisan coalition of the Ohio congressional delegation, including Toledo-area U.S. Representatives Marcy Kaptur and Bob Latta, and Ohio’s U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman. Background: According to materials provided by the Toledo Air National Guard, the 180th Fighter Wing: employs approximately 1,400 individuals in northwest Ohio and is already home to the F-16 Fighting Falcon, which conducts the nation’s number one homeland defense mission, Aerospace Control Alert; has a strategic location in the northern Midwest that places it within 600 miles of 60 percent of the U.S. population. Accordingly, since October 2008 the 180th FW has been charged with the 24/7/365 Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) mission protecting skies over major metropolitan areas, railway transportation hubs, nuclear power plants, freshwater ports and shipping lanes, and has done so with distinction; consistently proves to be an essential, long term solution for the defense of our nation; was recognized as “Best seen to date” and “benchmark operations” by NORAD’s no notice evaluation, receiving a MISSION READY rating in 2015, 2014, and 2012; was recognized as “Best seen to date” and “benchmark operations” Command Post by the First Air Forces Alert Forces Operational Assessment Evaluation, receiving a MISSION READY rating in 2015, 2014, and 2012; was recognized in 2015 with the ACA Security Forces of the Year, SSgt Richard Hitch; has flown over 900 ACA missions to date, including 135 real-world events (last event in July 2014 intercepting a Boeing 737 Sunwing Airlines out of Toronto with a bomb threat on board), totaling over 380 flying hours. Congresswoman Kaptur serves on the U.S. House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, which oversees funding over the Department of Defense, including the Air National Guard. ###
06.02.2016	Toledo, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur formally announced today at a Toledo Civic Center Mall Oversight Committee meeting that both chambers of Congress last week approved the final inclusion of the major $100 million modernization to the historic Federal Courthouse Plaza in downtown Toledo for the Northern District of Ohio. The upgrade of the Toledo Federal Courthouse and the construction of an annex are one of only eight similar federal courthouse projects approved for this fiscal year. "An investment of more than $100 million investment in the heart of our City provides our community not only an opportunity for jobs and beautification of our historic Mall,” said Kaptur. “It also challenges us to envision how this new structure can integrate various activities on the Mall, and to provide new energy production in its design and siting, as well as attract new commercial activity in the Mall corridor.” This project provides for the design and construction of a new, 96,000-square-foot U.S. Courthouse Annex and inside parking spaces, and for the repair and alteration of the existing Ashley Courthouse building. Kaptur made today’s announcement at the meeting of the Toledo Civic Center Mall Oversight Committee, a local coalition of civic, philanthropic, business, and local government leaders who have been unwavering in their efforts for nearly two decades to assure that Toledo's Federal Courthouse is modernized to meet the security and‎ justice requirements of its growing caseload and the surrounding Civic Center Mall are improved to their intended splendor. Kaptur applauded all gathered for their continuing efforts to see this major investment as a means to upgrade the design and function of the Toledo Civic Center Mall, draw our legal and justice services in closer proximity, be mindful of assuring improved access for surrounding arterials and connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods. The design will require careful attention to the current historic Ashley Courthouse‎, much as the addition to the Toledo Museum of Art’s required architectural genius. “It isn't every community in America that receives back over $100 million of it hard-earned tax dollars for civic improvement‎,” said Kaptur. “Thank you to the Obama Administration for ‎recognizing Toledo has waited its turn for a very long time. We are grateful, if not ecstatic, and ‎I look forward to the day when we can all cut the ribbon on our district's new Federal‎ Courthouse addition.” According to the General Services Administration, or GSA, “the project will provide six courtrooms and eight chambers to accommodate eight judges (two active district, two seniors, one visiting, one magistrate and two bankruptcy). Other court related tenants include the Federal Public Defender (Trial Prep) and the U.S. Department of Justice (the U.S. Marshals Service, U.S. Trustee, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney).” Kaptur gave special thanks today to the Northern District of Ohio’s Chief Judge Solomon Oliver Jr., and those judges currently serving in the Toledo courthouse, namely Judge David Katz, Judge James Carr, Judge Jack Zouhary, Judge Jeffrey Helmick, and Magistrate Judge James Knepp. Congresswoman Kaptur serves on the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding over federal construction projects. ###
05.27.2016	Rep. Kaptur, LEEDCo, Cleveland Officials Make Major Announcement Today WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), along with senior officials from the Cleveland-based Lake Erie Energy Development Co (LEEDCo), Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson, Cuyahoga County Executive Armond Budish, and other Cleveland officials, today announced that the federal Department of Energy (DOE) has selected the local wind power firm to receive $40 million over the next three years for the construction phases of the nation’s first offshore wind energy projects. “Yesterday, I was honored to receive a phone call from the US Secretary of Energy, Dr. Ernest Moniz, informing me that the DoE has ‘on boarded’ Cleveland's LEEDCo application toward full funding of the department's Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy wind turbine energy demonstration,” said Kaptur. “We are grateful to the support from DOE dating back to 2012 that has enabled us to make such significant progress in the development of Project Icebreaker. This award is a direct result of our regional collaboration lead by the Cleveland Foundation and the City of Cleveland, as well as the counties of Cuyahoga, Ashtabula, Lake, Lorain, and Erie, Pa. This is truly a transformational event that will make us a manufacturing and technical leader in a new U.S. industry that is ready to surge.” said Lorry Wagner, LEEDCo’s president. LEEDCo’s selection as one of three wind power demonstration projects is seen as somewhat of a surprise, and a recent fast-moving development, after two other previously selected projects located in Virginia and Oregon had recently failed to meet DOE benchmarks necessary to receive future project development funds and were downgraded as a result. Kaptur applauded this great achievement: "As wind power is gaining momentum globally as a major segment of energy production-- including having increased over seven-fold here in the United States in the last decade. With Lake Erie dubbed the Saudi Arabia of wind, LEEDCO has seen the future and captured it." LEEDCo’s pilot project consists of six large wind turbines which are located between eight and 10 miles offshore to the northwest of downtown Cleveland. “We’re incredibly excited about this very significant development. This is a great opportunity to develop clean energy in Cuyahoga County. This brings our region in alignment with national trends and with the development of large scale renewable energy,” said Cuyahoga County Executive Armond Budish. “This is an absolute lesson in persistence and as great an example of a public private partnership that you can think of. I’m tremendously excited,” said longest serving LeedCo Board Member and Cuyahoga County Representative, Steve Dever. “In an era and a state where it’s been difficult to develop clean energy, the Department of Energy, LeedCo, Cuyahoga County and the City of Cleveland are really stepping forward. And we see great things coming down the pipe for Cuyahoga County. This will help Northeast Ohio be a leader in the off-shore wind industry,” said Cuyahoga County Department of Sustainability Director, Mike Foley. This is the fourth such award for the non-profit LEEDCo, previously considered an “alternate” project, rather than the new “finalist” designation for the project, which is administered by the DOE Advanced Technology Demonstration Program. With the new designation, the firm is now eligible for three annual awards of $13.3 million, or $40 million total from DOE, for the design, manufacture and construction phases as long as it continues to meet the program’s requirements. “Lake Erie is the Saudi Arabia of wind, and today’s award should be a gusher for northern Ohio,” said Kaptur. “This wind power project will begin to unleash Lake Erie’s full renewable power potential and contribute to creating a more competitive energy marketplace. LEEDCo’s innovative vision can help transform energy production and distribution for northern Ohio’s residents and thousands of businesses. Because Lake Erie serves both the US and Canada this development also harkens toward a future that could link Ohio and Ontario in a new energy partnership.” Today’s DOE announcement follow LEEDCo’s receiving $3.7 million last week for “Project Icebreaker Development Phase 3,” meant to complete permitting, engineering challenges, and soliciting bids for fabrication, construction and installation of the wind farm. With these new funds, LEEDCo will eventually receive nearly $51 million in federal support. Kaptur said: "This announcement today seems perfectly suited to Cleveland, the first city in America where the electric wind turbine was invented. With this announcement today, Cleveland carries American innovation forward in this new millennium."‎ LEEDCo has partnered with Fred Olsen Renewables USA and is headquartered in Cleveland. The venture has a 50-year lease from Ohio for the offshore project and is working to complete the remaining permits it needs from federal and state agencies. Moreover, LEEDCo has secured a power purchase agreement (PPA) for 65 percent of future output. As two other national contenders were unable to overcome deficiencies in their original applications, LEEDCo and the Maine-based wind power project continued to make steady progress toward a full demonstration, including the recent power purchase agreements. Further, LEEDCO's successful efforts to secure significant private investments favorably positioned its application toward a full demonstration. “The strength of the Icebreaker project, as opposed to its competitors, lies in LEEDCo’s commitment to leverage offshore wind energy with local Ohio-based jobs in the steel, construction, and transportation industries,” said Kaptur. “This means local job possibilities beyond wind generation are on the horizon.” The LEEDCo project is the only freshwater, wind project in development in the United States and will play an important role in unlocking the tremendous offshore wind energy potential of the Great Lakes which represents 20 percent of the United States’ total offshore wind energy capacity. Congresswoman Kaptur serves as the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. This selection successfully advances the Cleveland effort toward‎ $40 million‎ in Department of Energy assistance to complete the first full demonstration in the United States of a major offshore wind installation in freshwater. ###
05.26.2016	The House of Representatives today failed to pass the annual funding measure for federal energy- and water-related programs, in a 112-306 vote, an annual spending measure which typically passes by overwhelming margins. “Today’s defeat is bad news for the prospects of an open lake dumping ban in Lake Erie and increased funding for eliminating the threat of algal blooms in western Lake Erie. From this vote, it’s clear that the House Republicans cannot govern, as they are held hostage to a number of special interest groups that have nothing to do with our national energy and water needs. They could not even secure half of the votes of their Members necessary for final passage, far from the majority needed for passage, bringing down one of the most important job-creating proposals to come before this Congress.”
05.26.2016	The House of Representatives today failed to pass the annual funding measure for federal energy- and water-related programs, in a 112-306 vote, an annual spending measure which typically passes by overwhelming margins. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, the ranking member on the House Energy & Water Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “From this vote, it’s clear that the House Republicans cannot govern, as they are held hostage to a number of special interest groups that have nothing to do with our national energy and water needs. They could not even secure half of the votes of their Members necessary for final passage, far from the majority needed for passage, bringing down one of the most important job-creating proposals to come before this Congress.” The House Republicans have once again failed to lead -- putting an iron rod in the wheels of progress. This puts billions of dollars of federal contracts in limbo for 2017 and beyond -- for dredging and port operations in America’s cities, for navigation, ‎for energy innovation and breakthrough technologies, for responsible management and modernization of our nuclear weapons, and long delayed nuclear clean-up, for solutions for the drought-stricken West, for recovery from Houston's flooding. ‎Once again, House Republicans are impeding America’s potential because of their internal, partisan divisions. It reminds me of the old movie, 'The Gang that Couldn't Shoot Straight.' Their fractured majority circles their wagons and shoots their own. Ready. Fire. Aim. It is a destructive path for the significant job-creating programs this Congress must fund responsibly and on time to assure confidence in both the private and public sectors.” ###
05.20.2016	SANDUSKY, OH— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) presented awards to the winners of the First Annual Marine Debris Challenge at Cedar Point today. The competition encouraged local area students to develop first-hand experience with marine debris and use that experience to raise awareness in the community. Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District is the first in the nation to host this initiative. All students in grades 9 – 12 enrolled in recognized public, private, and home schools in Ohio’s Ninth Congressional were eligible to participate. The competition was administered through a partnership between Congresswoman Kaptur, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ohio Sea Grant College Program, and The Ohio State University Stone Laboratory. The First Place Winning Team is Alyssa Viengmany, a one woman team from Clay High School in Oregon, Ohio. Her teacher/leader for the project is Joe Carstensen. The Second Place Team is from Perkins High School in Sandusky, Ohio. The team consists of students Hannah Schoen, Madison Leffler, Abby Singler, Ashley Kaufman and Olivia Schaefer. Their teacher/leader for the project is Ashlie Gowizka. The Third Place Team is from St. Joseph Academy in Cleveland, Ohio. The team consists of students Natalie Barendt, Faith Cole, Joslyn Muniz, Spencer Nezovish, Esther Ngemba, Grace Semon, Margaret Sweeney, Stephanie Rolon, and Jadalie Pacheco. Their teacher/leader for the project is Mary Ellen Scott. The top three teams have their videos playing all day at Cedar Point and again during events this summer at The Ohio State University Stone Laboratory. ###
05.18.2016	Department of Energy Awards LEEDCo $3.7 million in 3rd Phase Funding WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), today praised the award of an additional tranche of $3.7 million by the federal Department of Energy to the Cleveland-based non-profit Lake Erie Energy Development Co., or LEEDCo. This project is the only Great Lakes proposal competing to complete the pre-construction phase of the nation’s first offshore wind demonstration project in Lake Erie, a freshwater ecosystem. “Lake Erie is the Saudi Arabia of wind, and today’s award should be a gusher for northern Ohio,” said Kaptur. “This wind power project will begin to unleash Lake Erie’s full renewable power potential and contribute to creating a more competitive energy marketplace. As a new foundation stone with potential to produce up to 20 megawatts of power from natural resources, LEEDCo’s innovative vision can help transform energy production and distribution for northern Ohio’s residents and tens of thousands of businesses. Because Lake Erie serves both the US and Canada this development also harkens toward a future that could link Ohio and Ontario in a new energy partnership.” Kaptur is the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which has funding and oversight responsibility over federal energy programs. LEEDCo’s pilot project of six large wind turbines, located eight to 10 miles northwest of downtown Cleveland, will generate enough electricity initially—enough to power approximately 17,000 homes. This is the third such award for the non-profit LEEDCo, currently considered an “alternate” project, rather than a “finalist” project administered by the DOE Advanced Technology Demonstration Program. The recent veto by New Jersey’s Republican Governor Chris Christie of a wind energy financing proposal essentially killed the future prospects of Cape May, NJ-based finalist Fishermen’s Energy proposal for its wind project off the coast of Atlantic City. The demise of the New Jersey wind project should clear the way for the Lake Erie-based project to be upgraded to a finalist, making the project eligible for additional federal wind funds. Since May 2014, LEEDCo has achieved significant milestones and overcome all of the weaknesses identified in DOE’s project evaluations. “Convincing DOE to make the LEEDCo project a finalist is our next goal,” said Kaptur. Today’s DOE funds represent the third and final phase of demonstration project funding for LEEDCo’s “Project Icebreaker Development Phase 3,” meant to completepermitting, engineering challenges, securing purchasing agreement contracts, and soliciting bids for construction and materials. With these funds, LEEDCo will have received $10.7 million in federal support to date. “Cleveland Public Power already receives about 1.5 percent of its energy from hydropower from Niagara,” said Kaptur. “Coupled with this innovative, renewable wind-based project, our region moves closer to securing a modern energy grid along Lake Erie's south coast to transform energy production and distribution. This third step is a real turning point.” LEEDCo has partnered with Fred Olsen Renewables and is headquartered in Cleveland. The venture has a 50-year lease from Ohio for the offshore project and is working to complete the remaining permits it needs from federal and state agencies. Moreover, LEEDCo has secured offtake commitments for 65 percent of future output through power purchase agreements. Kaptur continued: “The strength of the Icebreaker project, as opposed to its competitors, lies in LEEDCo’s commitment to leverage offshore wind energy with local Ohio-based jobs in the steel, construction, and transportation industries. Today’s announcement and the demise of the New Jersey wind project make it possible to upgrade LEEDCo to a finalist so they can get the turbines in the water as soon as possible.” The LEEDCo project is the only freshwater, wind project in development in the United States and will play an important role in unlocking the tremendous offshore wind energy potential of the Great Lakes which represents 20 percent of the United States’ total offshore wind energy capacity. ###
05.12.2016	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Toledo), dean of the Ohio congressional delegation, issued the following statement in response to the passing of former Congressman Del Latta (R- Bowling Green): “It is with heavy heart and fond memories that I extend deepest sympathies to the family, friends, and colleagues of retired Congressman Del Latta. To his beloved wife, Rose Mary, his daughter Rose Ellen, and his dutiful son with whom I now serve, Congressman Bob Latta, along with Bob’s wife Marcia and their daughters, Elizabeth and Maria, I wish to offer comfort and union in prayerful remembrance of his life and patriotic service to our nation. Congressman Latta served honorably, always maintaining his fierce loyalty to Ohio and his constituents. His dry sense of humor could carry the day and he held a fine work ethic. During the early years of his service, he would drive from Ohio to Washington and then back again. May his good works carry forward and may his dear family draw strength during this difficult time from the persevering example he set. ‎ May he rest in peace.” ###
05.06.2016	U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) issued the following statement in response to today’s Department of Treasury’s rejection of the Central States Pension Fund application: “The decision today‎, rightfully and justly, will require a reevaluation and reset of how to protect the hard-earned pension benefits of 270,000 Teamster retirees‎, of which 48,000 are Ohioans‎. Let me deeply thank the Obama Administration, and especially Special Master Ken Feinberg, for this consequential decision to‎ review a full range of ways and means to assure that Central States retirees and another 1.5 million pensioners in multi-employer plans whose earned benefits also are at risk are protected. Pension rights and benefits belong to the workers that earned them, not to the investor class like Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and Northern Trust that frittered away workers’ benefits to the winds of chance. Treasury’s rejection is an opportunity for Congress to correct the law that set all this in motion, the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act. Congress cannot duck its responsibility to hold hearings on how this happened, who is responsible, and to consider balanced proposals, such as my legislation, to fix this mess. Imagine if Congress were to cut monthly Social Security checks for the nearly 40 million retirees currently collecting benefits by up to two-thirds. There would be riots in the streets.” Kaptur has been a leading critic of a provision known as the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act, or MPRA, snuck in a must-pass spending bill meant to prevent a government shutdown in December 2014. MPRA, passed without prior debate or legislative hearings, sought to avoid potential large-scale systemic pension fund insolvency, but it placed the financial pain on the backs of innocent retirees, who will now bear the entire burden. Kaptur has authored pending legislation, the Keep Our Pension Promises Act, or KOPPA (HR 2844), to protect earned pensions of workers by filling the financial gap in the fund and reinstate the “anti-cutback'' provisions in ERISA, the bedrock of that law. Kaptur represents Ohio’s 9th congressional district, including Toledo, the western suburbs of Cleveland, Lorain, and the communities along Lake Erie. Nearly 48,000 Ohioans’ pensions were under threat of these cuts. ###
05.06.2016	Pending Trans-Pacific Partnership Was Modeled After Flawed Korean Free Trade Agreement WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined several Members of Congress Thursday briefing reporters on newly-released trade data from the first four years following the enactment of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The data reveals that the U.S trade deficit with Korea has more than doubled, by 115%, and that the number of passenger vehicles from Korea has increased by an additional 597,607 vehicles since the U.S.-Korea trade pact was enacted. “The U.S. trade deficit and the number of lost jobs have grown since the Korean Free Trade Agreement, especially in passenger vehicle manufacturing” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Just look at the data.” Source: Global Trade Watch; United States Customs Service; United States Department of Treasury In the fourth year following the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement the U.S. trade deficit with Korea in passenger vehicles grew 66 percent, from a net deficit of 848,505 vehicles to 1,409,532 vehicles. The U.S. imports of passenger vehicles from Korea have increased by 69 percent or by an additional 597,607 vehicles by the fourth year of the Korea FTA. Source: Global Trade Watch; United States Customs Service; United States Department of Treasury “We need intense, highly-focused scrutiny of the TPP, the Trans-Pacific Partnership,” continued Kaptur. “The American people deserve to know as much about proposed trade agreements as the 1700 lobbyists and influence-peddlers hired by corporations and multinational firms behind the TPP who receive regular briefings.” The Obama Administration has repeatedly promised job creation as a result of the TPP. Yet, the increase in the U.S. trade deficit with Korea equates to the loss of more than 106,000 American jobs in the first four years of the Korea FTA, counting both exports and imports, according to the trade-to-jobs ratio formula that the Obama administration cites to promote the TPP deal, which is modeled after the US-Korea trade pact. Additionally, according to Global Trade Watch, a non-profit organization which monitors trade data: The U.S. goods trade deficit with Korea has increased 115 percent, or $16 billion, in the first four years of the Korea FTA (comparing the year before it took effect to the fourth year data). Since the FTA took effect, U.S. average monthly exports to Korea have fallen in 11 of the 15 U.S. sectors that export the most to Korea, relative to the year before the FTA. Exports of machinery and computer/electronic products, collectively comprising 28.6 percent of U.S. exports to Korea, have fallen 22.6 and 6.6 percent respectively under the FTA. The 115 percent surge in the U.S.-Korea goods trade deficit in the first four years of the FTA starkly contrasts with the 5 percent decrease in the global U.S. goods trade deficit during the same period. While U.S. goods imports from the world have decreased by 6 percent, U.S. goods imports from Korea have increased by 19 percent, or $11.5 billion, during the FTA’s first four years. Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, and a leading critic of the TPP, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). ###
05.05.2016	Funding for projects focuses on nutrient run-off, invasive species control TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Senior Advisor Cameron Davis showcased seven Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) awards for projects in northern Ohio at an event at the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge. The seven GLRI awards for projects in Ohio total more than $3.3 million. They are among 28 GLRI awards that were announced by the EPA yesterday, totaling over $12.5 million.“The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative's support for programs such as these awarded today has been critical to state and local efforts to protect Lake Erie’s freshwater future," said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, a Co-Chair of Congress' Great Lakes Caucus. "GLRI's and the EPA’s investments, including today's announcement of over $3 million in Ohio based awards will help to keep a laser focus on the challenges presented by nutrient run-off and invasive species in the Lakes," Rep. Kaptur added. The seven Ohio GLRI grant recipients announced yesterday are:The Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments was awarded $497,258 to partner with farmers to implement agricultural conservation practices like variable rate technology fertilizer application, cover crops, and controlled drainage or water control structures in the Portage and Toussaint River watersheds. This project will reduce dissolved total phosphorus discharges to Lake Erie by 10,889 pounds over a three-year period, helping alleviate the harmful algal bloom problem. It is estimated that 150 landowners, representing a total of 18,750 acres of farmland, will participate. The Western Reserve Land Conservancy was awarded $500,000 to purchase 290 acres of easements in the Chagrin River watershed, and will add another $1.2 million in donated easement value and staff time to establish a 1,350-acre corridor of protected lands in the Lake Erie basin. The easement includes stream bank stabilization and protection, which will eliminate about 38,000 pounds of sediment deposition to Lake Erie annually.IPM Institute of North America was awarded $408,150 to implement an incentive program for farmers to reduce nutrient loading into Lake Erie. Each participating farmer is expected to attain up to a 60 percent phosphorus reduction, which will help alleviate the harmful algal bloom problem. It is estimated that at least 225 farmers will participate, and associated outreach work will increase awareness among the farming community, leading to a replicable conservation model across the Great Lakes Basin.Winrock International Institute for Agricultural Development was awarded $500,000 to work with farmers to reduce the discharge of nutrients and sediments to Lake Erie by increasing their participation in pay-for-performance conservation. This project is expected to reduce 3,700 pounds of total phosphorus; 1,850 pounds of dissolved phosphorus; 4,400,000 pounds of sediment; and 100,000 pounds of nitrogen to Lake Erie annually, helping alleviate the complex harmful algal bloom problem. The University of Toledo was awarded $499,991 to analyze the potential movement of invasive fish and mollusk species into the Great Lakes by analyzing purchases of live species from bait shops, outfitters, pond suppliers, and pet stores. The grantee will use genetic analyses to detect invasive species and assess the risks of these pathways and will also create a pilot “Invasive Free” certification program for retailers.The Cleveland Metropolitan Park District was awarded $316,830 to control up to 54 acres of hydrilla, an aquatic invasive plant, in Cleveland Metroparks waters and the Cuyahoga River Area of Concern. Outreach efforts will engage Lake Erie basin park districts and watershed groups to assist in hydrilla detection and dissemination of educational materials.The Nature Conservancy was awarded $650,000 to control 1,000 acres of invasive plants along the Lake Erie coastline in northeast Ohio. The project will target non-native phragmites and invasive woody and herbaceous species, taking into account the timing of control actions to avoid impacts to birds during nesting and migration. The project will also educate visitors to Ohio’s beaches on the importance of coastal health. GLRI was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. Since then, GLRI has funded more than 2,930 projects totaling over $1.5 billion. Priority funding areas include restoration work in highly contaminated Areas of Concern, nutrient reduction, invasive species control and habitat restoration. For more information about the GLRI, visit: https://www.glri.us. For more information on yesterday’s awards announcement, visit: https://www.epa.gov/great-lakes-funding/great-lakes-restoration-initiative-2015-request-applications. ###
04.26.2016	TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Co-Chair of the House Auto Caucus, heralded the news today from Ford Motor Company of a $200 million investment to upgrade its Ohio Assembly plant in Avon Lake, Ohio. The move will help create or retain 150 hourly jobs to build the Super Duty chassis cab. “The U.S. auto industry is on the upswing, and Ford’s Avon Lake plant is driving America’s future forward,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The hard work and dedication of the assembly teams and management at this outstanding Ohio plant are world class. This partnership continues to bring good economic news to our region and good jobs that bolster northern Ohio’s automotive industry.” The Ohio Assembly Plant employs more than 1,650 people. It began building F-350, F-450 and F-550 Super Duty chassis cab configurations earlier this year. The plant also produces Ford F-650 and F-750, which was insourced from Mexico last year, as well as Ford E-Series cutaway vans and stripped chassis. Today’s announcement is part of Ford’s commitment made in the 2015 UAW-Ford collective bargaining agreement to invest $9 billion and create or retain 8,500 hourly jobs in its U.S. facilities during the next four years. ###
04.22.2016	Toledo, OH -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today heralded an announcement by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has scheduled a full committee markup of a broad slate of bills related to opioids next week. Rep. Kaptur has repeatedly called upon the House to act swiftly in addressing this serious public health crisis. As a senior appropriator, Rep. Kaptur has advocated for increased funds and the inclusion of heroin connected directives to agencies within the purview of the appropriations process. Additionally, as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Rep, Kaptur has co-sponsored both comprehensive and narrow efforts to address a range of aspects of the epidemic, including adequate and targeted funding, emergency response, education, and prevention. “The heroin epidemic can be addressed by a determined effort from Congress to enact reform, and to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. This isn’t a single-layer issue that will be fixed with one solution. There are pieces that need to come together and we can best do this by listening to the needs and experiences of local communities,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The patchwork of programs and policies currently in place present obstacles for those seeking treatment for opiate addiction,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The bills supported by the Heroin Task Force, and before the Energy and Commerce Committee, seek to confront these obstacles and to provide a framework that encourages collaboration and stricter enforcement of laws already in place.” “The several committees with jurisdiction have a formidable task ahead, but one that is vital to the health and well-being of communities across our nation, explained Rep. Kaptur. “We cannot sit idly by while people continue to suffer under the strain of opiate addiction. The legislation before the Energy and Commerce Committee will help alleviate this strain by addressing funding, prescription drug monitoring, sentencing reform, and improvements to agency rules that have encouraged doctors and medical providers to prescribe prescription painkillers at such an alarming rate. While I am pleased by the Energy and Commerce Committee’s efforts, I urge the additional committees to immediately follow suit and organize markups to advance the legislative package.” The Judiciary, Ways & Means, and Veterans’ Affairs Committees share jurisdiction over the legislation included in the Heroin Task Force’s legislative platform, none have yet scheduled markup dates. Rep. Kaptur is a cosponsor of CARA, the Stop Abuse Act, and the Reducing Unused Medications Act, among others. CARA has already passed the Senate and could be voted on immediately in the House. ###
04.01.2016	TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today heralded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) which has made more than $90 million available in competitive grants to help strengthen local and regional food systems, develop new market opportunities for producers, and support farmers growing fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, flowers and nursery crops (known collectively as specialty crops). These grants programs are administered by USDA’s Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) and include the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, and the Federal-State Marketing Improvement Program.“This is welcome news, as these opportunities for funding can help efforts to encourage healthy eating and support local food production,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Northern Ohio produces ample amounts of fresh, healthy, delicious food. These federal initiatives will help strengthen the connection between the food we grow and the way our community feeds itself. That also means getting food that lasts longer on our shelves and in our refrigerators, and using less fuel to ship that food.” More than $62 million is allocated in grants to U.S. states and territories through the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program for projects supporting specialty crop growers through research and programs to increase demand. Kaptur urges interested applicants to apply directly through the Ohio Department of Agriculture, which administers Ohio’s competitive grant process: Ohio Department of Agriculture, ATTN: Lori Panda, Senior Program Manager, Phone: (614) 466-8798 or email Panda@agri.ohio.gov. A summary of Specialty Crop efforts may be found at www.ams.usda.gov/services/grants/scbgp. State departments of agriculture must submit their applications to AMS by July 6, 2016. USDA data show that specialty crop sales exceed $83 billion per year. Since 2009, the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program has supported these growers by investing nearly $393 million into more than 5,400 projects. The Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program provide a combined total of over $26 million in competitive grants, divided equally between the Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP) and the Local Food Promotion Program (LFPP). USDA’s investments in farmers markets and other direct-to-consumer local food marketing activities through FMPP have provided $60 million in assistance for over 900 projects nationwide since 2009. LFPP has funded over 350 projects totaling nearly $25 million since it launched in 2014. Grant applications must be submitted electronically through www.Grants.gov. For more information about these grant programs, including program background, visit the AMS grants website: www.ams.usda.gov/services/grants. The website also contains a link "What AMS Grant is Right for Me?" under which applicants can use a grants decision tree to determine which AMS grant best fits their project. ###
03.30.2016	TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today called for immediate action by the U.S. House of Representatives on H.R. 953, The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2015. Rep. Kaptur is a co-sponsor of CARA, which establishes a comprehensive, coordinated and balanced strategy through enhanced grant programs that would expand prevention and education efforts while also promoting treatment and recovery. The bill would empower communities facing a prescription drug crisis to effectively address these local issues with a new $5 million Community-Based Coalition Enhancement Grant program for current and former Drug-Free Communities grantees. The U.S. Senate passed the bill in its chamber, S. 524, on March 10, 2016. Rep. Kaptur is calling on the House to act swiftly in addressing this serious public health crisis by passing H.R. 953.“Our communities have been struggling with heroin and providing narcan to combat overdoses. The recent reports out of Cuyahoga County, which in two weekends this month saw 21 deaths related to heroin and/or fentanyl are most troubling. In 2015, Lucas County saw 113 deaths related to heroin and/or fentanyl and Lorain County saw 65 deaths. Just this past week, Erie County saw 3 more deaths related to heroin and/or fentanyl. Now that the concentrated synthetic fentanyl is being widely used, we are losing ground even faster. Fentanyl is stronger than heroin and kills almost instantly. Higher doses of narcan are needed to revive someone who has overdosed on fentanyl, and response time is even more crucial in these instances,” said Rep. Kaptur. “And, all of our counties here in Northern Ohio and beyond are similarly impacted,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The need for Congress to act and pass CARA is apparent for Ohio and many other states whose citizens are battling the crisis of addiction at similar levels. Without the immediate action of Congress, our communities’ local law enforcement and medical officials have their hands tied while they wait for more resources to be distributed to fight this public health crisis.” CARA would expand the availability of naloxone (narcan) to law enforcement agencies and other first responders to help in the reversal of overdoses to save lives. It also directs HHS to convene a Pain Management Best Practice Inter-Agency taskforce to develop both best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication and a strategy for dissemination; and to launch an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention program to expand best practices throughout the country. Additionally, CARA would expand resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from addiction disorders promptly by collaborating with criminal justice stakeholders and by providing evidence-based treatment; expand disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications to keep them out of the hands of our children and adolescents; and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion and to help at-risk individuals access services. ###
03.11.2016	Visit Highlights Local Talent and Need for Affordable, Clean Energy in Ohio TOLEDO, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) hosted the Department of Energy’s Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE), Dr. David Danielson, and the Department’s Weatherization and Intergovernmental Programs Director, Anna Garcia, in a series of events throughout the 9th Congressional District this week designed to spotlight and develop initiatives focused on generating cleaner and more affordable energy in Ohio. Elected Officials and utility operators from Lucas to Cuyahoga Counties expressed interest in partnering on local energy initiatives in a Tuesday afternoon session. They spoke about a $26 million program the DOE hopes to launch to help local communities generate energy more efficiently. “Building stronger partnerships among business and government leaders is key,” said Kaptur. “We spend millions of dollars on energy each year across northern Ohio to power the water and sewage plants. There is an opportunity to save money by streamlining services and introducing more renewable energy projects.”“I hope the meeting will be the first in a series of energy discussions,” said Kaptur. “The California water drought highlights the importance of a nexus between our water and energy efforts. I believe we need to start seriously looking at umbrella protections for the Great Lakes.” Rep. Kaptur and Assistant Secretary Danielson visited the campus of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) on Wednesday for discussions focused on clean and alternative energy. The delegation toured CWRU’s Sears Think[box], one of the world’s largest and most advanced makerspaces and community workshops. Opening in October, Think[box] has already proven to be a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship – spinning off numerous inventions and start-ups companies. Following the visit, Rep. Kaptur and Assistant Secretary Danielson joined CWRU’s Alexis Abramson, Director of Great Lakes Energy Institute for a forum and conversation with students, faculty, researchers and a wide range of clean energy practitioners. Discussion focused on the role of government versus industry in energy research and development investment, the future budget of DOE, and the need for short term and long term investments. As the Congresswoman reiterated our country’s need for energy independence, Dr. Danielson and Rep. Kaptur received briefings on initiatives being championed here in Northern Ohio. Ranging from modernizing the electrical grid, advancing solar and wind industries and improving energy storage to smart buildings and sensor technology, Northern Ohio has become a hotbed for clean energy innovation. In related news, Rep. Kaptur heralded an announcement made yesterday by the U.S. Department of Energy about seven small clean-energy businesses chosen to work with Sandia National Laboratories to bring next-generation technologies to market faster. One of the seven companies to be selected for the Small Business Vouchers Pilot is Skysun, LLC. Skysun, LLC is a startup solar company located in Bay Village, Ohio that has received support from federal agencies such as NASA and locally, JumpStart. Skysun, LLC brings a simpler and more reliable technology to solar concentration. Rep. Kaptur has long called for the U.S. Department of Energy and National Energy Laboratories to work with Ohio companies. “A major factor in Assistant Secretary Danielson’s visit was to highlight the amazing potential of the companies and talent surrounding the clean-energy economy right here in Northern Ohio,” said Kaptur. “The announcement today is tremendous news for Skysun, LLC and for our entire region.” “It was my privilege to learn more firsthand about the outstanding economic development and research underway in Northeast Ohio, and to meet so many innovators in that region supported by the Department of Energy,” said Assistant Secretary Danielson. “DOE is working with Congresswoman Kaptur and other leaders in Congress to help innovators to tap into the emerging clean energy economy. These efforts include public-private partnerships, such as the Small Business Vouchers program, which allows entrepreneurs across the country to access the world-class resources at our National Laboratories. Another example is our newly proposed Cities, Counties, and Communities Energy Program, which is designed to provide funding and technical assistance to local governments, public housing authorities, and non-profits to catalyze energy solutions in community development and revitalization.“
02.26.2016	Investment to advance production of popular EcoBoost engine WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) congratulated Ford Motor Company and the workforce of the Cleveland Engine Plant on the news that Ford will invest an additional $145 million in the plant to produce the second generation of Ford’s popular EcoBoost engine. Ford announced the investment today estimating the move will create or retain 150 jobs. “The men and women of UAW Local 1250 and Ford have forged an exemplary partnership that continues to bring good economic news to our region and good jobs that bolster northern Ohio’s automotive industry,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This boost to Cleveland Engine further underscores its role as a cornerstone in Cleveland's comeback and of the continued resurgence of America’s auto industry.” Ford employs about 1,500 people at the Cleveland Engine Plant, where it produces more that 1 million EcoBoost engines. ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) spoke at the Northeast Midwest Institute’s Great Lakes Environmental Summit on Capitol Hill today, calling for greater federal investment in Great Lakes infrastructure and a new holistic approach by all stakeholders that treats the Great Lakes as a single interconnected system. “The Great Lakes are a deeply interconnected ecological and economic system, and they should be treated that way,” said Kaptur.“Taken together, our region is home to one of the largest economies and one of the largest concentrations of fresh water in the world. As legislators from this area, we have to work together to address the common problems we all face to ensure our region is able to get the federal resources it needs and deserves. “I think we are all conscious that we have an enormous role to play in this, especially in light of what has been happening to the water and to thousands of families in Flint, Michigan and Sebring, Ohio for more than a year. Just two summers ago, my hometown of Toledo, Ohio faced another water crisis, and the response of our federal government was too little and too slow then as well. “We have a responsibility not just to hold those responsible for these avoidable crises accountable, but to focus together on making systematic improvements that will resolve these problems now and prevent their return in the future. In Northern Ohio we are still fighting for those improvements. “Our region is home to vast amounts of fresh water, one of the largest collections of this precious resource in the world. The health of this water system will be our legacy. Stewardship of it requires long-term thinking and a commitment to practices that are sustainable across generations. Let us be eagles, not ostriches, as we work to preserve the precious life of this water system, and the precious lives of the families and communities that depend on it.” ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued a stinging criticism of U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman following the announcement that he plans to participate in a signing ceremony in New Zealand for the Trans-Pacific Partnership later today. “I strongly object to U.S. Trade Representative Froman’s decision to appear in New Zealand later today to ceremoniously sign an un-ratified draft of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. This sham performance will take place despite the fact that Congress has not voted for the job-killing TPP deal. Formal debate on the TPP is not even expected to start until after the Presidential election at the end of the year. Putting on a show in New Zealand does not change the fact that the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be a job-killing disaster and does not have Congressional approval. Time and again, America’s working families have been sold a bill of goods on trade. Today’s planned performance by the U.S. Trade Representative is no different. This kind of political theatre is highly inappropriate and insulting to millions of American workers and their families who depend on jobs that aredirectly threatened if the TPP is eventually adopted. Today’s events do further harm to this Administration’s credibility and strain the public trust. I strongly encourage my colleagues in Congress to join me in publicly rejecting this false, unconstitutional, and inappropriately-timed event.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-Toledo), Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Representative Bob Latta today urged the Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James to select the 180th Fighter Wing in Toledo, Ohio to receive the new F-35A Joint Strike Fighter. Receiving the new F-35s would not only help to solidify the 180th Fighter Wing’s long-term presence in Toledo and enable it to perform national and homeland security missions more effectively, but it would also provide a boost to the local economy. “The people of Ohio support our military and are proud to be family, friends, and neighbors of the dedicated men and women of the 180th FW,” the lawmakers wrote. “The Ohio Air National Guard and the 180th FW in particular have taken great steps in achieving cost effectiveness and mission readiness. We stand ready to assist you in the selection process for the F-35A, and believe that the Ohio Air National Guard and the 180th FW will best meet the needs of the mission.” Full text of the letter can be found below and here. The Honorable Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 Dear Secretary James: As members of Ohio’s Congressional delegation, we request that the 180th Fighter Wing (180th FW) in Toledo, Ohio, be the next assignment for the F-35A mission. The strategic advantages of the 180th FW, in addition to the support from the State of Ohio, the City of Toledo and surrounding communities, and the 180th FW’s record of accomplishments make it the best choice for the F-35A mission. Once you compare the 180th FW with all other basing alternatives, we are confident that Toledo and the 180th FW will serve as a superb, cost-effective choice. The 180th FW’s strategic location in the northern Midwest places it within 600 miles of 60 percent of the U.S. population. Accordingly, since October 2008 the 180th FW has been charged with the 24/7/365 Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) mission protecting skies over major metropolitan areas, railway transportation hubs, nuclear power plants, freshwater ports and shipping lanes, and has done so with distinction. The 180th FW has unique access to airspace and ranges in both Michigan and Indiana that allow the wing to find favorable weather necessary to maintain training requirements and these ranges already meet the training requirements for the F-35A. The airmen of the 180th FW have consistently served our country with distinction both at home and abroad. Furthermore, the 180th FW has been tasked with protecting some of the country’s most critical infrastructure, and also has deployed overseas multiple times in support of wartime contingency operations with coalition partners. To support these missions, the 180th FW regularly participates in Close Air Support training exercises at Alpena, Michigan, contributing to their reputation as a Center of Excellence. Additionally, the 180th FW was named ACA Unit of the Year twice, received an Outstanding Unit award in 2015, and was called the “benchmark operation” by the North American Aerospace Defense Command Region Commander. The 180th FW is slated to become an Active Associate Wing of the Air Force in 2018, further enhancing its strategic value to the Total Force. The people of Ohio support our military and are proud to be family, friends, and neighbors of the dedicated men and women of the 180th FW. The Ohio Air National Guard and the 180th FW in particular have taken great steps in achieving cost effectiveness and mission readiness. We stand ready to assist you in the selection process for the F-35A, and believe that the Ohio Air National Guard and the 180th FW will best meet the needs of the mission. Thank you for your consideration. ###
01.26.2016	Reiterates Call on Washington to Reject New Trans Pacific Partnership Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), who co-chairs the House Auto Caucus and is a leader in efforts to force foreign markets open to U.S.-made goods, issued the following statement after Ford Motor Company announced that it will terminate all operations in Japan by the end of 2016 as a result of hostile market conditions in the closed Japanese market. "Ford's decision to no longer attempt to build or sell ‎vehicles in Japan is most discouraging. This announcement shows that even an excellent firm like Ford, which has been able to establish successful operations in nations around the world, faces unfair and anti-competitive barriers in Japan. These are the same Japanese closed‎ market practices, what is known as a keiretsu or closed business network, that make Japan the persistent trade outlier in the global marketplace. “For decades, Japan has been allowed to have it both ways on trade. Today they have privileged access to the U.S. marketplace while still being allowed to make it almost impossible for any non-Japanese automakers to sell there. As a result, nearly 95 percent of all cars sold in Japan are made by Japanese companies. This is practically the definition of a closed market. That gives an unfair and un-earned advantage to Japanese companies, resulting in lost sales and lost jobs for American firms. If a fine company like Ford cannot maintain a viable operation in Japan, let it be a clanging cymbal‎ for‎ a reordering of global trade. “The current global trade regime has operated to the detriment of the United States for the last three decades. The scarred landscapes of auto towns from Flint to Lorain tell us how uneven the playing field is for global auto competition. Congress should defeat TPP, which Ford has long opposed, and which will further reward Japan's pernicious closed practices. Our nation needs an aggressive coordinated effort to promote real free trade among free nations. We can leverage the strength of our economy to open closed markets, growing demand for U.S.-made goods around the world and creating jobs and opportunity here at home.” ‎ ###
01.26.2016	Decision adds F-350, F-450 and F-550 to production lines at Ohio Assembly Plant AVON LAKE, OH–Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) congratulated Ford Motor Company and United Auto Workers Local 2000 after learning that Ford’s Ohio Assembly Plant in Avon Lake will be adding the F-350, F-450 and F-550 Super Duty chassis cab configurations to its production lines. The plant currently makes the new Ford F-650 and F-750 “The Beast” trucks and Ford E-Series cutaway vans and stripped chassis. “The men and women of UAW Local 2000 and the management at Ford Motor Company deserve our heartfelt congratulations for this historic decision,”said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This decision comes straight out of the fact that Ford’s award-winning Avon Lake facility is making some of the finest automotive components in the world. Without the hard work and commitment of every leader and line worker at the Ohio Assembly Plant, this new investment into our workforce would not be possible.” The Ohio Assembly Plant currently employs more than 1,400 workers, making it one of the region’s largest employers. ###
01.22.2016	SANDUSKY, OH – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) was at American Legion Post 83 in Sandusky this morning to present Post Commander Terry Kaufman, Color Guard Commander Dan Break, and other American Legion members with new color guard rifles provided by the U.S. Army. Post leaders worked for months to secure these replacement rifles, which are used in various ceremonies around Erie County. When Rep. Kaptur learned of the disrepair and unsafe condition of the Post’s old burial rifles, she personally assisted in acquiring the replacement rifles from the Army. “The effort and leadership put forth by these volunteers at American Legion Post 83 set an important example for us to follow,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The commitment of time and energy given selflessly by the members of the Post and Color Guard in support of our veterans and their families is a real treasure for this community. I was pleased to be able to play a small part in helping them in their efforts today.” Post Commander Terry Kaufman added, “The hard work of Congresswoman Kaptur and her staff has been a real beacon for our Post and our Color Guard. We could not have navigated the bureaucracy involved in acquiring these rifles without the support of her office.” Color Guard Commander Dan Break also noted, “With the assistance of Congresswoman Kaptur and her staff, we are able to honor veterans throughout Erie County. I know that their families appreciate it and we do as well.” The newly issued rifles will be used by the color guard to perform military honors as part of area veterans’ funerals and other special ceremonies and events in Erie County. During the ceremony, Rep. Kaptur also presented Post Commander Kaufman with a United States Flag that was ceremonially flown over the U.S. Capitol. American Legion Post 83 in Sandusky, Ohio is the largest American Legion Post in all of Ohio. ###
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— House Auto Caucus co-chairs Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) issued the following joint statement praising the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and numerous major global automakers on their jointly-developed “Proactive Safety Principles 2016” released earlier today: Over the past ten years, the U.S. automotive industry has experienced a rebirth that has brought with it an unprecedented commitment to manufacturing quality, product safety, and transportation security. As a result, U.S. automakers, and even more importantly America’s autoworkers, are building some of the finest-made most technologically advanced cars ever made. Unfortunately, progress has been uneven and some vehicles have been allowed to reach the marketplace with flaws that have endangered consumers in the U.S. The Proactive Safety Principles agreement released today by the federal government and major automakers is a major step forward for the industry to navigate a promising and consequential future for all on the road. It will help ensure that issues of safety and public trust are given the highest priority. When such issues arise, this partnership will make it possible to address concerns industry-wide, quickly and efficiently. In addition, this innovative partnership makes it possible to implement new safety equipment and security measures more quickly in more cars than ever before. This means safer roads and safer communities for everyone. The Proactive Safety Principles 2016 were agreed to by a collection of government and industry leaders including the U.S. Department of Transportation, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, American Honda Motor Company, Inc., BMW of North America, LLC, FCA US LLC, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Hyundai Motor America, Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC, Kia Motors America, Inc., Mazda North American Operations, Mercedes–Benz USA, LLC, Mitsubishi Motors North America, Inc., Nissan North America, Inc., Porsche Cars North America, Inc., Subaru of America, Inc., Tesla Motors, Inc., Toyota Motor North America, Inc., Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., and Volvo Cars USA. ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address, which he delivered before a joint session of Congress tonight: President Obama offered a sweeping vision for America tonight. I look forward to working with him and with Congress to advance America’s priorities this year. To echo his words, let us extend America’s promise outward and continue to work toward a future where all Americans find opportunity and security. This President has shown that he believes America’s great industries are worth fighting for. He proved that when he saved the U.S. automotive industry. Today the U.S. auto industry has come roaring back and is now lifting the economy of our entire region‎. But northern Ohio cannot afford another trade deal like the TPP that will outsource more good jobs to undemocratic regimes. Work remains to be done. We must continue to build the recovery forward and spread its benefits to all corners of our region and nation. I share the President’s call to put education and job training within reach for every American family. Congress must also work with the President to meet the continuing struggle of working families to earn living wages‎, to ensure that hard work at a good job can still be a path out of poverty in America. Let us put a laser focus on priorities that will foster innovation and support local economic growth and job creation. President Obama’s determination to ‎achieve progress for the American people in his last year in office is encouraging and appreciated. ‎Positive job growth for 70 consecutive months, an enormous achievement by any measure, stands in sharp contrast to the 800,000 monthly job losses that characterized his predecessor’s final months in office. Finally, I agree with the President’s sentiment that American leadership abroad is founded on principles that are as powerful and enduring as any threat of force. Let those principles of freedom and self-governance guide us, whether in the application of force or in efforts to work with world leaders to meet the world’s greatest challenges. Onward! ###
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Chase Ritenauer, Mayor of Lorain, Ohio and Patrick Gallagher, United Steelworkers Sub-District Director for District 1, issued statements today following the release of Republic Steel’s official notice that it plans to idle its Bar and Rolling Mills facility in Lorain, Ohio starting in March. Another 200 employees at the facility are expected to lose their jobs as a result, just the latest round of jobs eliminated at the facility. Last March, Republic Steel announced its plans to lay off 200 of its hourly and salaried employees. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur: “This notice shows once again that our government’s approach to trade is hurting us. One only needs to read the notice from Republic Steel to see that this idling is a result of foreign steel dumping and current market conditions – both a consequence of U.S. trade policies. Existing trade deals have done next to nothing to stop other countries, including China, from dumping cheap steel into the U.S. market below cost to drive American companies out of business. The result is 1,000 northern Ohio steelworkers are out of their jobs just in the last year. “Even more frustrating, these trade deals could leverage our position as a global economic power to force our trading partners to open their markets and drive up demand for American products, allowing our bedrock industries to thrive. It breaks my heart that our government has instead allowed these industries to be choked off for decades, outsourcing countless jobs and breaking the backs of communities in northern Ohio and across America. American steelworkers helped build the greatest economy in the history of the world. My Balancing Trade bill would put us in a position to renegotiate America’s worst performing trade deals so they reward the skill and competitiveness of those workers instead of driving them out of jobs in a global race to the bottom.” Mayor Chase Ritenauer: “Republic's news of its temporary idling due to energy market conditions and steel dumping is yet another recent example of how what we do in Lorain is tied to international economics and policy that are outside of our control. The energy sector is volatile, and my hope is that the market makes a quicker than expected rebound so that our steel workers can do what they do best--make high quality, American made steel. My thoughts and prayers are with the workers and their families during this incredibly difficult period.” Patrick Gallagher, United Steelworkers: “United Steelworkers District 1 and USW Locals 1104 and 2354 that represent the members employed at Republic Steel's Lorain Plant were issued a WARN Notice for the Company's Bar and Rolling Mills. The Union is preparing an information request and is working on a Lay-off Minimization Plan for the employees affected by Republic's decision. “This is another case of the continuing assault on American workers and manufacturers by unfairly priced and subsidized steel imports that are currently flooding the domestic market. Imports continue to rise while U.S. producers are forced to lay off workers, idle equipment and close plants. Our members and communities are suffering, and the USW has several trade cases pending to stop the devastation of our industry. The actions of these foreign producers are illegal, and we will continue to push the federal government for vigorous enforcement of our trade laws.” ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement upon learning that Republic Steel in Lorain, OH might idle an additional 200 employees. While we have not received any official notification of changes at Republic Steel in Lorain, I continue to fight for those workers and their families who depend on that facility. These are workers whose jobs are under constant threat through no fault of their own. I remain hopeful that a solution may be found that retains work in this signature industry for Lorain. We continue to do all we can to find a path forward for Lorain’s steel workers who suffer at the hands of disastrous trade deals and trade policies negotiated and agreed to by their own government. Just in the past year, workers laid off at Lorain Tubular Operations, Lorain Northern Railroad, and Kyklos Bearing International have all been deemed eligible for TAA support. By definition, that means their jobs were lost as a result of our nation’s misguided approach to trade. Bad trade deals such as NAFTA and the proposed Trans Pacific Partnership leave American workers at the side of the road as they perpetuate the Great American Job Giveaway that has seen production offshored for decades now. These lost jobs reflect the total and repeated failure of our government to prevent other countries, including China, from raiding our economy, closing their own markets to our goods, and committing countless anti-competitive trade abuses including dumping cheap steel into our marketplace below cost. We have a responsibility to stop deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership from moving forward and to renegotiate past trade deals, including NAFTA, that have proven to be a disaster for our working families. I have proposed legislation to do just that. My Balancing Trade Act (HR 1403) would renegotiate any trade deal that has produced a deficit of more than $10 billion dollars for at least three consecutive years. How many times will we let this happen before we learn the lessons of our own regrettable trade history? I will continue to do all I can to find a path forward for Northern Ohio’s steelworkers. And I will always stand against devastating trade deals, new and old, that threaten to outsource good jobs and dismantle great American industries. Kaptur, who helped lead the historic fight against NAFTA in 1993, is the sponsor of the Balancing Trade Act (H.R. 1403), which would require the President to renegotiate any trade deal that has resulted in three consecutive years of trade deficit of $10 billion or more. ###
01.05.2016	By Marcy Kaptur, January 05, 2016 - Originally published in The Hill Drive through the neighborhoods of Ohio. You will observe thousands of vacant homes devoid of a generation of aspiring young homeowners. The opportunity for this generation to buy a first home has been thwarted by sluggish income growth in the job market often made worse by the overcharge of student loan debt. That debt has put homeownership out of reach for millions of creditworthy borrowers. All across America, this story repeats itself. Millions of habitable homes sit unoccupied. In 2014, the percentage of houses sold to first-time homebuyers dropped to 33 percent, the lowest level in three decades. These separate but related conditions retard economic growth, depressing home purchases across our country. These trends must be reversed. Debtors must become equity stakeholders. The current, slow recovery is the first since World War II in which housing has not led our economy forward. At the end of last year, nearly 17 million homes sat vacant in the United States. That’s enough empty homes to house the combined populations of Ohio and Indiana. Vacant structures also drag down adjacent property values and contribute to a downward spiral in neighborhood stability and worth. Last year, more than 57,000 homes sat vacant in my congressional district alone. Just in October 2015, there were more than 5,300 homes in my home state of Ohio that remained on the market for nine months or longer. Those homes have a combined value of $1.9 billion. These under-invested assets represent a vast, untapped source of wealth creation for families and our nation. Meanwhile, student debt in the U.S. currently totals $1.3 trillion. More than 40 million Americans have at least one outstanding student loan, a number that is up significantly from 29 million Americans just 10 years ago. Student loan debt is weighing down millions of young families, effectively locking out their buying power to purchase their first home, the most common way in which Americans have grown wealth in previous eras. There is a lending instrument already in widespread use that could serve as a bridge for creditworthy student borrowers to become homeowners: the home mortgage. This common tool has the power over time to transform the stream of student loan repayments by creditworthy individuals into homeownership. Building a road forward for student debt holders through the home mortgage instrument would require cooperation of three federal departments: the Department of Education, Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Treasury Department. This presents a surmountable challenge. An initial test of this concept could take the form of a pilot project directed through HUD’s Federal Housing Administration (FHA). Creditworthy federal student debt holders could be connected with available housing properties held by or serviced through the federal government or local county land banks. By arranging prudent financing alternatives that recalculate terms, debt-to-income ratios, mortgage interest rates and other factors, the FHA could transition shorter-term student debt into longer-term home ownership. The economic and financial gains are potentially even greater in the long run as housing values rise. Over time, participants would help restore neighborhoods, transform their debt to equity, buoy property values locally and improve the FHA ledger simply by maintaining and investing in a home. The status quo has created a permanent debtor class of millions of student borrowers. This is not in the public interest. Instead, America needs home equity stakeholders. If America continues to do nothing, thousands more student debt holders will live, work and eventually retire without ever escaping the burden of their debt. At the same time, first-time housing purchases will continue to be retarded, and our neighborhood housing stock deteriorates. Congress has the power to release the debt stranglehold on the next generation. Let’s transform student loan repayments into equity stakeholders. We have the resources, the power, a compelling economic interest and a moral responsibility to do something about unshackling the aspiring generation. Let’s get started. Kaptur has represented Ohio’s 9th Congressional District since 1983. She sits on the Appropriations Committee.
12.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) offered her warm congratulations to the students she has nominated or offered as alternates from Ohio’s 9th Congressional District for U.S. service academies for the coming school year. She is pictured here (left to right) with Michael Chung (Merchant Marine), Anthony Miller (Navy), Noah Durczynsk (Air Force) and Alec Thompson (Army). Each Member of Congress can nominate one student to attend each of the U.S. service academies per year. Students must meet certain eligibility requirements as well as submit a letter and detailed application to Congresswoman Kaptur. Students interested in attending a service academy typically begin their application process in their junior year of high school so that their academy of interest can be notified. Nominations are a prerequisite but not a guarantee that a student will be accepted. The U.S. Service Academies that require nomination include the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT does not require applicants to be nominated. 2015/2016 Nominees: United States Air Force Academy Principal Nominee: Noah Durczynski Noah is the son of Kristine and Kevin Durczynsk, senior at Clay High School. Alternates: Jason Steckle is the son of Laurie and Jason Steckle. Jason is a senior at St. Edward High School. James Faunda, III is the son of Carrie and James Faunda II. James is a senior at Huron High School. Alexander Winschel is the son of Devon and Mark Winschel. Alexander is a senior at Huron High School. Robert Lawson is the son of Lula Shelton. Robert is a senior at Morrison R. Waite High School. Athena Ramm is the daughter of Kostandina and Ronald Ramm. Athena is a senior at Horizon Science Academy. Mason Beck is the son of Laurel and Michael Beck. Mason is a senior at St. Edward High School. Mitchell Kubicki is the son of Shelly and Greg Kubicki. Mitchell is a senior at Whitmer High School. James Visconti, III is the son of Colleen and Jim Visconti. James is a senior at St. Ignatius High School. Aaron Fellhauer is the son of Fealyn and Daniel Fellhauer. Aaron is a senior at E.L. Bowsher High School. United States Merchant Marine Academy Principal Nominee: Michael Chung Michael is the son of George and Mei Chung, currently enrolled at the University of Toledo Army ROTC. Michael has a younger brother serving his first year at the US Naval Academy. Alternates: Michael Leone is the son of Suzanna and Vincent Leone. Michael is a senior at Port Clinton High School. Danielle Price is the daughter of Penny Price and Daniel Yambrisak. Danielle is a senior at Lorain High School. Noah Durczynski is the son of Kristine and Kevin Durczynski. Noah is a senior at Clay High School. Bradley Thrasher is the son of Lisa and Rich Thrasher. Bradley is a senior at Firelands High School. Jason Steckle is the son of Laurie and Jason Steckle. Jason is a senior at St. Edward High School. Aaron Fellhauer is the son of Fealyn and Daniel Fellhauer. Aaron is a senior at E.L. Bowsher High School. Harvey Munguia is the son of Victoria Munguia. Harvey is a senior at Horizon Science Academy. Patrick Corrigan is the son of Kathleen and Patrick Corrigan. Patrick is a senior at St. Ignatius High School. United States Military Academy Principal Nominee: Alec Thompson Alec is the son of Dawn and Gary Thompson, senior at Toledo Central Catholic High School. Alternates: Bradley Thrasher is the son of Lisa and Rick Thrasher. Bradley is a senior at Firelands High School. James Kaatz is the son of Joan and Robert Kaatz. James is a senior at Sandusky St. Mary Central Catholic High School. Jason Steckle is the son of Laurie and Jason Steckle. Jason is a senior at St. Edward High School. Danielle Price is the daughter of Penny Price and Daniel Yambrisak. Danielle is a senior at Lorain High School. Alexander Winschel is the son of Devon and Mark Winschel. Alexander is a senior at Huron High School. Aaron Fellhauer is the son of Fealyn and Daniel Fellhauer. Aaron is a senior at E.L. Bowsher High School. Harvey Munguia is the son of Victoria Munguia. Harvey is a senior at Horizon Science Academy. Patrick Corrigan is the son of Kathleen and Patrick Corrigan. Patrick is a senior at St. Ignatius High School. James Dorko is the son of Mary and Dean Dorko. James graduated from Danbury Local High School, May 2015. James received an appointment last year but had a knee injury that required surgery so he was deferred for a year from the academy and will require another nomination. James has received a Letter of Assurance. United States Naval Academy Principal Nominee: Anthony Miller Anthony is the son of Janice and Doug Miller, senior at St. Edward High School in Lakewood. Alternates: Mason Beck is the son of Laurel and Michael Beck. Mason is a senior at St. Edward High School. Adler Vasiloff is the son of Molly and Jeffery Vasiloff. Adler is a senior at Lutheran High School West. Bradley Thrasher is the son of Lisa and Rick Thrasher. Bradley is a senior at Firelands High School. James Kaatz is the son of Joan and Robert Kaatz. James is a senior at Sandusky St. Mary Central Catholic High School. Mitchell Kubicki is the son of Shelly and Greg Kubicki. Mitchell is a senior at Whitmer High School. John Dzurec is the son of Mary Ann and Daniel Dzurec. John is a senior at St. Ignatius High School. James Visconti, III is the son of Colleen and Jim Visconti. James is a senior at St. Ignatius High School. Evan O’Donnell is the son of Becky and John O’Donnell. Evan is a senior at Bay High School. Petty Officer Jonathan Miller is the son of Debra Ann and Steven Miller. Petty Office Miller graduated from Morrison R. Waite High School, June 2012. Petty Officer Miller is currently on deployment with the USS George Washington. ###
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C.— Following weeks of anti-Muslim bigotry and acts of hatred, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Mike Honda (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Andre Carson (D-IN), along with 63 original cosponsors, introduced legislation condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslim-Americans. “We must show that we will not tolerate this anti-Muslim discrimination and that those who propagate it do not represent the melting-pot America that we celebrate,”said Rep. Beyer. “These harmful words eventually lead to the very acts of violence many came to our country to escape in the first place. It’s time Congress stood up to condemn these attacks which run contrary to American values.” “America’s highest ideals include our protections for religious liberty and the celebration of our differences. It is amistake to lump millions of peaceful, liberty-loving Muslim Americans together with the brutal zealots who are working continuously to hijack their faith,”said Rep. Kaptur. “Anti-Muslim speeches and statements only serve to divide us and pit Americans against one another. Bigotry and the violence it perpetrates are not worthy of the legacy of generations who have fought and sacrificed to make America the nation that it is today.” “As we see many Americans expressing their fears, their leaders at every level have a special obligation to lead,”Congresswoman Norton said. “The concerns of the American people about terrorism in civil society after Paris and San Bernardino are understandable, but embracing Islamophobia as a way to cope with those fears is not only unacceptable, but dangerous. The main purpose of terrorism is to provoke division. Terrorists lose when, instead, we embrace our Muslim brothers and sisters.” "The despicable rhetoric and violence on American Muslims is reprehensible and goes against everything this country stands for. Whether it’s a bomb threat on a mosque, a child bullied on a bus, or a slur painted on a building, hate is hate. And, each and every one of us has a duty as an American to speak out against discrimination and intolerance," said Rep. Joe Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. "I'm proud to join Congressman Beyer and my colleagues in introducing this resolution that sends a powerful message that the Congress stands behind our Muslim American communities and firmly against hate and intolerance." “Muslim Americans are our friends, neighbors and colleagues. Anti-Muslim rhetoric from our nation’s political candidates has damaging consequences for the lives of Muslim Americans,”said Rep. McCollum. “As elected officials, we must work to foster respect, civility and dignity towards all Americans and ensure that no citizen of our nation is persecuted or targeted because of their religious beliefs.” “We must do everything we can to fight terrorism on all fronts, but we must take care not to give into bigotry, hate speech or tolerate hate crimes. Hateful rhetoric has real consequences. Every day, Muslim students, leaders and community members are threatened with violence—and some have been the victims of hate crimes,”said Rep. Honda. “Our country is better than this; we are a multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural nation. Our diversity is what gives us strength—together with our respect for the Constitution, rule of law and the ideals of freedom that unites us. It is the responsibility of all to reject discrimination. I urge my colleagues in the House to support this resolution.” “The United States was built by the belief in liberty, freedom, and equality for every person. These are the values we hold most dear – the truths we hold to be self-evident. When elected officials and political leaders build their platforms on hatred and bigotry, they do so at our country’s expense,”said Rep. Keith Ellison. “Their rhetoric is not merely ignorant – it’s dangerous. And it is fundamentally un-American. Scapegoating a religious community shouldn’t be part of a candidate’s stump speech. Not in this country. This bill is a reminder to Americans of all faiths: the demagogues do not speak for everyone. That is not who we are.” “The First Amendment safeguards our freedom to practice our faiths freely, but it does not give any person the right to cite religion in order to justify intolerance toward their fellow Americans,”said Rep. André Carson.“This holds true whether the victim of such intolerance is gay or straight, black or white, Christian, Muslim, Jewish, or the member of any group. Discrimination in any form is never acceptable anywhere in our country, which is why I am proud to help introduce this resolution which will help bring more attention to the harmful and ignorant acts that have been directed at Muslim Americans for far too long.” The full text of the House Resolution denouncing hate speech and hate crimes against Muslim-Americans follows: Condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslims in the United States. Whereas the victims of anti-Muslim hate crimes and rhetoric have faced physical, verbal, and emotional abuse because they were Muslim or believed to be Muslim; Whereas the constitutional right to freedom of religious practice is a cherished American value and violence or hate speech towards any American community based on their faith is in contravention of our founding principles; Whereas there are millions of Muslims in the United States, a community made up of many diverse beliefs and cultures, and both immigrants and native-born Americans; Whereas this Muslim community is recognized as having made innumerable contributions to the cultural and economic fabric and well-being of American society; Whereas hateful and intolerant acts against Muslims are contrary to the American values of acceptance, welcoming, and fellowship with those of all faiths, beliefs, and cultures; Whereas these acts affect not only the individual victims but also their families, communities, and the entire group whose faith or beliefs were the motivation for the act; Whereas Muslim women who wear hijabs, headscarves, or other religious articles of clothing have been disproportionately targeted because of their religious clothing, articles, or observances; Whereas the rise of hateful and anti-Muslim speech, violence, and cultural ignorance plays into the false narrative spread by terrorist groups of Western hatred of Islam, and can encourage certain individuals to react in extreme and violent ways; Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) Expresses its condolences for the victims of anti-Muslim hate crimes; (2) Steadfastly confirms its dedication to the rights and dignity of all its citizens of all faiths, beliefs, and cultures; (3) Denounces in the strongest terms the increase of intimidation, violence, vandalism, arson, and other hate crimes targeted against mosques, Muslims or those perceived to be Muslim; (4) Recognizes that the Muslim community in the United States has made countless positive contributions to our society; (5) Declares that the civil rights and civil liberties of all United States citizens, including Muslims in the United States, should be protected and preserved; (6) Urges local and Federal law enforcement authorities to work to prevent hate crimes; and to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law those perpetrators of hate crimes; and (7) Reaffirms the inalienable right of every citizen to live without fear and intimidation, and to practice their freedom of faith. ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) has championed the push to modernize Toledo’s Ashley Federal Courthouse for more than a decade. Now, with funding for facility modernization and the addition of an attached annex included in the bipartisan budget agreement currently under review by Congress, her efforts appear ready to pay off for Toledo and the surrounding community. "As a result of the agreement reached between the House and Senate Appropriations Committee this week, Toledo’s historic Ashley Courthouse will be officially advanced to become the top priority courthouse renovation and construction project nationally. More than $95 million is included in the bill to restore and enhance an architectural jewel at Toledo's core while supporting construction jobs and economic activity here. This long overdue funding is welcome news for the many judges, court employees and other professionals who utilize the courthouse. After a decades-long effort, I look forward to seeing this project finally become a reality. Earlier this year Rep. Kaptur joined with other members of the Ohio Congressional delegation to send a letter to President Barack Obama requesting 2017 funding for the construction of an annex and renovations of the historic James M. Ashley and Thomas W.L. Ashley United States Courthouse. Rather than hold the project to the 2017 budget request, Kaptur's efforts in this year's bill will assure that funding will occur in 2016. The Congresswoman is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, which is expected to advance the Omnibus Bill for approval by the full House and Senate tomorrow. ###
12.16.2015	NASA Glenn, Toledo Courthouse, Prescription Drug Pricing, Renewable Energy & Weatherization, Perkins Student Loans, Asian Carp & Open Lake Dumping Measures Headline Critical Funding Efforts WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded news today that a series of her top priorities have been included in the recently released Fiscal Year 2016 bipartisan budget deal. These priority items include $95.4 million for modernization of Toledo’s Ashley Federal Courthouse building and the addition of an attached annex, full funding for NASA’s Glenn Research Center, action on prescription drug prices and bulk bidding, and measures to block the advance of Asian carp and the practice of open lake dumping of dredged materials, among others. NASA Glenn NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Brook Park, OH and Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, OH are set to receive full funding and possible additional funding for FY2016. The overall NASA budget was increased by $1.3 billion to $19.3 billion. Space Technology, one of the key categories that funds NASA Glenn, will receive $686.5 million, $61.5 million more than the proposed House budget and $86.5 million more than the proposed Senate budget. Aeronautics will also receive $640 million. Congresswoman Kaptur: “NASA’s Glenn Research Center and its Plum Brook Station are two of the most vital NASA facilities in the country. The work done there is vital not only to our region’s economy and resource security, but also to the global future of space technology and exploration. The breakthrough technologies they are working on, such as photovoltaic solar propulsion systems, will be the future of space exploration and will enable humans to travel farther in space than even John Glenn could have imagined. “In addition to their work at the cutting edge of solar propulsion, and the central role Plum Brook is playing in testing the Orion European Space Module, Glenn is also working with other agencies to provide vitally important satellite monitoring of Lake Erie’s Harmful Algal Blooms. Thanks to their work, we have better early warning systems, more detailed data, and a greater understanding of the causes and development of these blooms. These are all reasons why I have been at the forefront of the fight to keep funding for NASA Glenn in place. I would like to thank my colleagues in both houses of Congress for standing with me to support this facility, which houses some of America’s most innovative and forward-thinking scientists.” Full funding for NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Brook Park, OH and Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, OH had been cast into doubt in recent months after it was learned that the Senate version of the budget bill contained a re-allocation that would have jeopardized funding for NASA Glenn. No such cuts were contained in the House budget bill, as full support for NASA facilities in Northern Ohio has been a longstanding priority for Congresswoman Kaptur. Toledo’s Ashley Courthouse After years of advocating for a new federal courthouse in Toledo,earlier this year Rep. Kaptur joined with other members of the Ohio Congressional delegation to send a letter to President Barack Obama requesting funding for the construction of an annex and renovations of the historic James M. Ashley and Thomas W.L. Ashley United States Courthouse. That funding request has been met in full in this Appropriations bill. Congresswoman Kaptur: “Despite facing significant budgetary constraints this year, Toledo’s historic Ashley Courthouse is now on track for improvements that address major security and space concerns. This long overdue funding is welcome news for the many judges, court employees and other professionals who work at the courthouse and for all the people of Northern Ohio. I look forward to seeing this project finally become a reality.” Prescription Drug Affordability Congresswoman secured language in the budget deal that directs the Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to “review how the Federal Government has achieved competitive cost reductions for [prescription] drugs since 2001.” The analysis will be used to identify possible cost savings available through the expansion of collective bidding and bulk price negotiation. Congresswoman Kaptur:“Prescription drug prices continue to skyrocket, forcing seniors and our most vulnerable citizens to choose between their health and their financial security. Constituents regularly describe the prices of their medication going from affordable to unmanageable. In many cases, people depend on these medications to stay healthy or just to survive, leaving them with no choice but to pay no matter the cost. As a result, sudden price jumps for certain medications cause serious hardship for patients and cost taxpayers, Medicare, Medicaid and the VA billions of dollars every year. This study will help us better understand those price jumps and the tools available to us to address them.” Earlier this year Rep. Kaptur helped launch the House Affordable Drug Pricing Task Force to push for meaningful action to address skyrocketing or predatory prescription drug prices. Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency As Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee, Congresswoman Kaptur negotiated a $415 million increase for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs. Notably, the increase included $7.4 million for offshore wind alternate designs, ensuring the continued development of the Cleveland-based Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) project. Congresswoman Kaptur:“Northern Ohio has long served as a hub for renewable energy development in our state. LEEDCo is playing a leading role in that effort, developing offshore wind energy and moving our region and America closer to energy independence. Renewable energy is the future of the world’s energy economy and already supports tens of thousands of good jobs in our state. This budget allocation continues to affirm Northern Ohio’s leading role in that energy future.” The bill also provides an additional $21 million for Weatherization Assistance grants to states to improve the energy efficiency of the homes of low-income families. Earlier this year, Rep. Kaptur congratulated LEEDCo for earning a commitment for this allocation from the Department of Energy and her efforts insured they remained a part of the final budget package. Perkins Student Financial Assistance After Rep. Kaptur criticized Republicans earlier this year for failing to renew funding for the popular Perkins student loan initiative, funding for Carl D. Perkins Act Programs is now set to receive $1.67 billion, a significant increase above even the requested funding level. Congresswoman Kaptur:“Perkins loans play an important role in making higher education affordable for our best and brightest students. Putting our resources toward educating these young people, whether in career or in technical education, provides us with a competitive, qualified workforce and a generation of citizens who are more capable of supporting themselves and their families.” Asian Carp The deal also includes language instructing the Corps to prevent the advance of Asian carp into the Great Lakesincluding an enhanced deterrent at Brandon Road Lock and Dam and the establishment of formal emergency procedures to prevent Asian Carp from passing beyond Brandon Road. Rep. Kaptur has called repeatedly for significant measures to block the advance of Asian carp toward Lake Erie and recently demanded a much stronger federal response to this threat looming over our lake. Congresswoman Kaptur: Today, after years of research, our government can’t even tell us how many Asian carp are moving in and where they are now. We need an immediate strong response to block this species that is already at our doorstep. The Corps must act with greater urgency to implement this interim solution while we continue to work toward full hydrologic separation, the only permanent barrier.” Open Lake Dumping Under the terms of the budget deal and accompanying report, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers would be prohibited from dumping dredged materials into Lake Erie. Rep. Kaptur introduced this language earlier this year to block the Corps from performing open lake disposal in Lake Erie. Congresswoman Kaptur: “Lake Erie is a precious freshwater resource that provides drinking water, jobs and livelihoods for millions of people. This bill provides more than enough funding to fully and safely dredge Cleveland harbor. The language in this bill sends a clear message that the Corps cannot be cavalier in their approach, but rather must work with the state and local officials to find an environmentally sound solution to disposing of this material.” Additional funding addressing Rep. Kaptur’s budget priorities (This list is not exhaustive and only includes some of the Congresswoman’s many priority accomplishments in the bipartisan budget agreement.) · Additional $75 million for Pre-Disaster Mitigation ($100 million total) · Additional $90 million for Flood Mapping ($190 million total) · Additional $2 billion in funding for National Institutes of Health over FY2015 level · Additional $160 million for Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Agency (SAMHSA) ($3.8 billion total) · Additional $400 million for Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) competitive grants · Continued funding for $3.4 billion for Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) · Additional $415 million for Energy Efficiency and Renewable energy · Removed troublesome Waters of the US language that would have hindered efforts to clean Lake Erie and all waterways · Reauthorized the Land and Water Conservation Fund · $100 million for law enforcement activities associated with the 2016 presidential nominating conventions including $50 million for Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio · $221 million for Commodity Supplemental Food Program · $16.5 million for Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program · $220 million for Entrepreneurial Development Programs for small businesses · $2 million for Financial Services and General Government, Community Development Revolving Loan Fund · $245 million for Office of National Drug Control Policy High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued a scathing rebuke of U.S. trade policy today following news that 177 workers laid off at a Kyklos Bearing International (KBI) auto part manufacturing facility in Sandusky have been deemed eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). TAA eligibility is granted only in cases where workers were laid off through no fault of their own as a direct result of global trade. Rep. Kaptur has voted repeatedly to maintain TAA while criticizing the underlying trade policy that continues to make it necessary. Earlier this year she sent a letter to Labor Secretary Tom Perez urging that workers laid off at KBI be made eligible for TAA and other related assistance. Her full statement: “NAFTA and other damaging global trade deals continue to be allowed to do their worst to the U.S. economy. These deals have already led to the outsourcing of millions of good American jobs overseas. Today’s announcement shows that the slow bleed continues as another 177 Ohio workers are forced to accept trade adjustment assistance made necessary by the job killing effects of bad trade policy. Trade Adjustment Assistance is vitally important for these workers and families in Sandusky who just recently lost jobs as a direct result of these deals, but job losses will continue to mount until we deal with the real issue: reckless global trade agreements such as NAFTA that have failed our working families for decades. Every one of these Sandusky workers lost a job through no fault of their own as a result of irresponsible U.S. trade policy. And the same thing has happened to millions of workers throughout the country over the past few decades. Let me tell you, millions of good American jobs don’t disappear on their own. They disappear because Congress and the Executive Branch make poor choices that do not serve the best interests of working families or the American people. And Congress and the Executive Branch are pushing to repeat those poor choices again with the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would cause more of the same job outsourcing. Instead of signing on for even greater job losses and economic devastation through the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we need to go back and fix the broken deals that got us here in the first place. My Balancing Trade Act (HR 1403) would renegotiate any trade deal that has produced a deficit of more than $10 billion dollars for at least three consecutive years. We have a responsibility to renegotiate of our worst trade deals and to stop new deals from causing even more damage. Until we begin to heal our nation’s economy from the harms of job-killing global trade deals, including NAFTA and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, the opportunity gap between working families and the extremely wealthy will only continue to grow.” TAA is a federal initiative for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own due to trade. The requirements for inclusion are stringent and only workers who lost jobs at facilities determined to have been closed or downsized due to trade are eligible. According to the 2013 TAA Annual Report, “nearly 4.8 million workers have been certified trade-affected and eligible to receive TAA benefits and services. As of December 31, 2013, the TAA program had served 2,192,910 workers.” ###
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, issued this statement following news that negotiators in Paris had reached an historic climate accord. “The global awakening that the Paris Climate Change Agreement represents is truly historic. For so many of the nations of the world to agree to address a common challenge, a step necessary for our mutual survival, indicates a new normal of common purpose for our fragile earth. “With the global human population now at 7.3 billion people, having doubled in number since the 1970s and growth expected to continue, there is much for humankind to address. “Ocean levels are rising, more fierce and strange weather events are occurring at an increasing pace, and ‎demands on the earth's finite resources continue to expand exponentially to serve growing populations worldwide. This Agreement translates into a Global Call to Action for a sane, and sustainable future for all. Now, let us work to make its goals achievable.” Full text of the agreement can be found by clicking here. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) expressed her warm enthusiasm after meeting White House Executive Pastry Chef Susan E. Morrison of Bay Village, Ohio at the annual White House Congressional Ball. Chef Morrison currently oversees the White House pastry kitchen, which is responsible for creating the annual ginger bread recreation of the White House. “It was an honor and a delight to meet Chef Susan Morrison last night and see her extraordinary ginger bread White House," Rep. Kaptur said. "Chef Morrison sets a wonderful example for the young people of Northern Ohio. Her success shows how much the people of our region can achieve when we have the passion, creativity and work ethic needed to follow our dreams. And her ginger bread White House is a sight to see. On behalf of the Ohio delegation in Congress and the people of Ohio's 9th Congressional District, please allow me to express my heartfelt congratulations to Chef Morrison for her exemplary achievements." Chef Susan E. “Susie” Morrison was announced as the new White House Executive Pastry Chef, the first woman ever to serve in the role, in November of last year. Her responsibilities include overseeing day to day operation of the White House pastry kitchen as well as creating and executing dessert menus for all social events at the White House including receptions, luncheons, and state dinners. Chef Morrison also tends the White House bee hive and supports the White House Kitchen Garden. ###
12.08.2015	Workers and retirees currently facing cuts of 60% or more to earned benefits WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congressman Richard M. Nolan, and 16 other members of Congress submitted a public comment to the Department of Treasury last night calling on Ken Feinberg, the department’s Special Master for Implementation, to reject a plan that would slash earnedpension benefits for hundreds of thousands of workers and retirees enrolledin the Central States Pension Plan. “Simply put, America’s workers are entitled to the pensions they’ve earned over a lifetime of hard work,” write the letter’s authors. “The proposed cuts by Central States will affect about 270,000 people, many concentrated in the Upper Midwest, with a significant number of those retirees facing severe cuts of 50-70 percent—affecting not only individual workers and retirees but their entire communities as well.” “Pensions are paychecks, not handouts,” Rep. Kaptur added. “If the United States of America could bail out Wall Street, whose risky behavior robbed pension funds of workers' hard earned benefits across our nation, surely we can find a way to restore retired workers' earned pensions. There are other solutions already working their way through Congress that don’t pick the pockets of workers and retirees to pay for financial losses for which they bear no responsibility. I am grateful for the support of Congressman Nolan and our colleagues in these efforts. I urge Special Master Feinberg to work with us to find a fairer and more equitable path forward.” "Congresswoman Kaptur is to be commended for her hard work and outstanding leadership in helping ensure that hundreds of thousands of American workers receive the retirement benefits they've earned over a lifetime of hard work, and entrusted to Central States Pension Funds," Rep. Nolan said. "Make no mistake - we are going to leave no stone unturned in our efforts to fight these outrageous cuts. Big corporations that get into financial trouble should not be permitted to take their problems and failures out on employee pensions - especially while executives collect tens of millions of dollars in golden parachutes." Rep. Kaptur is the sponsor of the Keep Our Pension Promises Act (H.R. 2844) in the House of Representatives. This legislation would repeal a provision in last year’s last-minute budget that opened the door to pension cuts, and would instead shore up the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation by closing two tax loopholes used almost entirely by wealthy estates to reduce their tax burdens. This legislation would protect the pensions of some 1.5 million workers enrolled in approximately 200 different multiemployer pension plans. ###
12.07.2015	Marketplace currently open, three Toledo events scheduled this week WASHINGTON, D.C.— With an important health insurance enrollment deadline less than two weeks away, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), President and COO of Mercy St. Anne Hospital Brad Bertke, Toledo/Lucas County CareNet Assistant Director Julie Grasson and others held an event at Mercy St. Anne Hospital today to urge residents hoping to enroll or re-enroll to take action. December 15th is the sign-up deadline to qualify for coverage that starts January 1, 2016. “To ensure you have health insurance starting January 1st of next year, you must sign up or renew your plan by December 15th,” said Rep. Kaptur. “You can continue to sign up after that deadline, but your coverage will not begin until at least the following month. It can be important for anyone currently facing a health challenge to get covered as soon as possible. That is why having in-person enrollment assistance available this week here in Toledo and across Ohio is so important.” “In our outreach efforts over the past couple of years, we’ve seen firsthand the real impact the Affordable Care Act has had in the lives of Toledo residents,” said Mercy St. Anne President and COO Brad Bertke. “If anyone is interested in talking with a trained professional, please attend one of our Mercy Health enrollment events happening on December 7, December 10, and December 12. You can RSVP by calling 877-918-5400.” Three events will be held in Toledo this week to help residents learn about their health options as well as the new resources available to them for this open enrollment period. Open enrollment for 2016 coverage runs from November 1, 2015 to January 31, 2016. After the December 15th deadline, anyone who enrolls before January 15th can still get coverage that kicks in on February 1st. Toledo Enrollment Events: Mercy St. Anne Hospital Toledo 12/7/2015 3pm-8pm Mercy St. Charles Hospital Toledo 12/10/2015 12pm-5pm Mercy St. Vincent Medical Center Toledo 12/12/2015 10am-3pm According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, almost 6 in 10 Buckeyes will be able to buy a plan for $75 or less a month in premiums after tax credits, and more than 8 out of 10 returning Buckeyes could save an average of $923 annually in premiums, before tax credits, for a plan in the same level of coverage. For 2016, Ohio consumers can choose from 17 issuers, up from 16, and an average of 81 plans. Since the Affordable Care Act’s coverage provisions took effect, an estimated 17.6 million Americans have gained coverage—the largest reduction in the uninsured in four decades. For more information on the Health Insurance Marketplace, please visit healthcare.gov and to find a local assister, please visit https://www.getcoveredamerica.org/connector. For customer service support, to start or finish an application, compare plans, enroll or ask a question, call 1-800-318-2596 (TTY: 1-855-889-4325). For more USDHHS Region V updates, be sure to follow @HHSRegion5 on Twitter and use the hashtag #GetCovered. ###
12.04.2015	Local, Federal Officials Announce Ways to Get Covered in Lorain and Elyria LORAIN, OH — Great news for Ohio consumers in 2016: affordable rates, more issuer choices, and improvements to the federal websites! The first important deadline for the Health Insurance Marketplace is less than two weeks away. Open enrollment for 2016 coverage runs from November 1, 2015 to January 31, 2016, but for coverage to start January 1, residents must sign up by December 15th. Residents can enroll at Healthcare.gov or at upcoming local events where trained professionals will be offering free and confidential assistance. During a press conference today at Lorain County Health and Dentistry, local and federal officials announced new rates for 2016, new improvements to the federal website, new demographic information for the remaining uninsured,and new upcoming enrollment assistance events. “The Affordable Care Act is making a difference in thelives of hundreds of thousands of Ohioans today,” said Congressman Marcy Kaptur. "Nationwide, about 17.6 million more consumers now have health coverage than before the ACA— the largest reduction in the uninsured in four decades. As organizations are holding enrollment events across the state next week, I encourage our citizens to take advantage of the in-person enrollment assistance being offered to help you find the health insurance plan that is best for you.” Consumers returning to the Marketplace and new consumers to the Marketplace will find a smoother and quicker enrollment process. Several new features have been added to HealthCare.gov to help consumers easily shop for quality, affordable health care. These features include the Out of Pocket Cost tool which helps consumers estimate the true cost of their health insurance based on premiums, deductibles, and anticipated health care service utilization. Other features include easier password reset, streamlined navigation, and simplified re-enrollment for returning consumers as well as the new Doctor and Prescription Drug Lookup features. These features provide consumers with easily searchable information about which doctors and which drugs plans may cover. “Now is the time to shop!,” said US Dept. of Health and Human Services Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk. “Almost 6 in 10 Buckeyes will be able to buy a plan for $75 or less a month in premiums after tax credits, and over 8 out of 10 returning Buckeyes could save an average of $923 annually in premiums (before tax credits) for a plan in the same level of coverage by returning to shop.” Falk was joined by Congresswoman Kaptur, Lorain Mayor Chase Ritenauer, Elyria Mayor Holly Brinda, Lorain County Health & Dentistry President & CEO Stephanie Wiersma, Mercy Regional Medical Center Manager H.E.L.P. Department Sarah Aroney, Lorain County Free Clinic Executive Director Paul Baumgartner as well as Sue Collins a local navigator for C.H.A.P. “What a tremendous difference being covered makes in our lives,” remarked Falk. “But we know there are many more still without—and we are seeing that a lot are the working poor. Of the remaining uninsured who qualify for the Marketplace, more than 7 out of 10 are employed. Almost 40 percent of the uninsured are earning between 139 and 250 percent of the poverty level—which is about 30 to 60 thousand dollars a year for a family of four. In addition, almost half are between the ages of 18 and 34.” Buckeyes have affordable options available to them. On average, rates in Ohio increased by 1% for plans in 2016, and in the broader Cleveland area, there was on average, a 7% decrease in rates.[1] For 2016, Ohio consumers can choose from 17 issuers, up from 16, and an average of 81 plans. “To gain health coverage that starts January 1, people have less than two weeks to enroll. It is critically important that our residents are aware that they can sign up now,” said Lorain Mayor Chase Ritenauer. “We do not want anyone to have missed this opportunity.” “There are many ways to enroll,” said Elyria Mayor Holly Brinda. “A consumer may shop on his or her own at HealthCare.gov or call the Are You Covered Ohio toll-free number 1-800-648-1176. Or you can enroll with the help of a trained professional at the Elyria City Health District. Assistance is free and confidential.” “In our outreach efforts over the past couple of years, we’ve seen firsthand the real impact the Affordable Care Act has had in the lives of Lorain and Elyria residents,” said Lorain County Health and Dentistry President & CEO Stephanie Wiersma. “While the remaining uninsured will be harder to reach, we know that nearly 75% believe having health insurance is important, and we are ready to help them enroll.” If you wish to enroll in-person with the help of a trained professional, Mercy Regional Medical Center will be hosting an enrollment event from 10am-3pm on December 12th. You can RSVP by calling 877-918-5400. In Elyria, the Elyria City Health District will be hosting an enrollment event on December 15th from 9am-3pm at 202 Chestnut Street. “We are working hard to make it easier to get covered –in fact, you can even do so on your cell phone!—but it takes the hard work of leaders and partners in the community to get the word out,” said Falk. “That is why we are so grateful for the leadership and efforts of Congresswoman Kaptur, Mayors Ritenauer and Brinda, and the local ACA coalition.” For more information on the Health Insurance Marketplace, please visit healthcare.gov and to find a local assister, please visit https://www.getcoveredamerica.org/connector. For customer service support, to start or finish an application, compare plans, enroll or ask a question, call 1-800-318-2596 (TTY: 1-855-889-4325). For more USDHHS Region V updates, be sure to follow @HHSRegion5 on Twitter and use the hashtag #GetCovered. Mercy ACA Enrollment Event The Jewish Hospital Cincinnati 12/7/2015 1pm-6pm Mercy St. Anne Hospital Toledo 12/7/2015 3pm-8pm St. Elizabeth Health Center - Youngstown Youngstown 12/7/2015 10am-3pm Anderson Hospital Cincinnati 12/8/2015 1pm-6pm St. Rita's Medical Center Lima 12/8/2015 10pm-6pm Mercy Allen Hospital Oberlin 12/8/2015 10am-3pm Mercy Memorial Hospital Urbana 12/8/2015 10am-3pm Springfield Regional Medical Center Springfield 12/9/2015 1pm-6pm Mercy Tiffin Hospital Tiffin 12/10/2015 10am-3pm Clermont Hospital Batavia 12/10/2015 10am-3pm Mercy St. Charles Hospital Toledo 12/10/2015 12pm-5pm St. Joseph Health Center Warren 12/10/2015 1pm-6pm Fairfield Hospital Fairfield 12/11/2015 1pm-6pm Mercy Defiance Hospital Defiance 12/11/2015 1pm-6pm West Hospital Cincinnati 12/12/2015 10am-3pm Mercy Regional Medical Center - Lorain Lorain 12/12/2015 10am-3pm Mercy St. Vincent Medical Center Toledo 12/12/2015 10am-3pm St. Elizabeth Health Center - Boardman Boardman 12/12/2015 10am-3pm [1]Average rate for second-lowest cost silver plan for a 27-year-old
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued a stern statement today calling on House Republicans to allow Congress to vote on H.R.1076: Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation would close a loophole that currently allows suspects on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist to purchase lethal firearms in the United States. Between 2004 and 2014, 2,043 terror suspects were able to legally purchase guns in the United States, a success rate of more than 91 percent. “Our first duty as Members of Congress is to protect and defend the American people,”said Rep. Kaptur. “There is a reason why we keep suspects with ties to terrorism from getting on an airplane in this country. The same standard needs to be applied when it comes to purchasing deadly firearms. House Republican leadership failed three times this week to allow debate and a vote on this urgent legislation. We cannot afford to let another opportunity pass without taking this long-overdue step to better secure our cities and communities.” According to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on the subject, “Membership in a terrorist organization does not prohibit a person from possessing firearms or explosives under current federal law.” ###
11.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) responded today to news that Pfizer is pursuing a $155 billion deal to acquire Allergan, which would make the resulting company the largest pharmaceutical company in the world and move its headquarters overseas to avoid its U.S. tax liabilities. “The last thing our nation’s pharmaceutical industry needs right now is major consolidation and inversion,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The level of consolidation in this proposed deal would hurt consumers and the whole pharmaceutical industry by reducing competition and outsourcing skilled jobs, all so an already multi-national corporation can dodge tax responsibilities and further monopolize specific sectors in the industry.” Kapturadded, “Pharmaceutical industry consolidation is itself a growing trend that has contributed to significant increases in drug prices overnight, often forcing people to choose between their health and their financial security. This deal is a perfect example of why we need Congressional action both to reform our corporate tax system and to stop the price gouging that is running rampant in this industry. Let us stand up for our nation’s seniors, families, and all those fighting for their health.” Kaptur is a founding member of the Affordable Drug Pricing Task Force in the House of Representatives. Earlier this year, Rep. Kaptur successfully placed language into the Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education Appropriations bill directing the HHS Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to report to Congress within 120 days of the bill’s enactment with an analysis of prescription drug price increases to “review how the Federal Government has achieved competitive cost reductions for drugs since 2001.” Once completed, the analysis will be used to identify possible cost savings available through the expansion of collective bidding and bulk price negotiation. President Barack Obama has called corporate inversions “unpatriotic” and directed the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service to develop rules to further restrict the practice, which has cost the U.S. government billions of dollars in lost tax revenue. A recent Kaiser Health Tracking Poll found that 77 percent of respondents say the top health care priority for the President and Congress should be making sure high-cost drugs for chronic conditions are affordable for those who need them. 63 percent say the top priority should be government action to lower prescription drug costs, including a majority of Republican respondents (56%). Important widely-prescribed drugs, including Humulin RU-500 to treat diabetes and EpiPen for allergic reactions, have increased in price by 200 to 300 percent from 2007 to 2014. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R. 4083, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015. Rep. Kaptur was one of 47 Democrats to support the bill, which passed by a vote of 289 to 137. “The first sworn duty of Congress is to protect the American people against all enemies foreign and domestic. In view of the heightened global threat level due to the terrorist attacks in Paris, we must ensure that our migration screening systems are as rigorous and lock tight as possible. Europe faces unique difficulties in protecting its borders and rooting out terrorists, whether homegrown or from beyond their borders,even attempting to transit our borders through Europe‎ as occurred leading up to the attacks on September 11th 2001. It is therefore vital that the U.S. work in concert with its allies to assure a rigorous, seamless system of identity verification while maintaining our heritage as an open, compassionate society for freedom loving people, especially those fleeing from danger. “Strengthening our screening process with an additional check valve does not diminish our resolve to help those refugees who have been driven from their homeland by war and instability. It provides an additional level of assurance as we proceed with efforts to help shelter the victims of our enemies. It will be important now for the agencies involved to coordinate to ensure that we continue to be able to provide shelter to those refugees who do satisfy the refugee requirements.” ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded news that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Food and Nutrition service has awarded the Cuyahoga County District Board of Health $100,000 through its Farm to School Grant initiative. This award will support local efforts to improve access to healthy local food, build connections for local food in the classroom, support the region’s food system economy, and establish a Harvest of the Month initiative for the region. “This is great news for local families and local food producers alike,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Northern Ohio is one of the most fertile areas in the world. Our region produces a vast quantity and variety of food, but a large portion of it ends up leaving Northern Ohio. At the same time, the overwhelming majority of the food we consume here is shipped in from somewhere else. Bringing more local food into our classrooms and connecting our communities with the local farmers and producers will help bring more balance and efficiency to our local food system. It will also help kids and families eat and live healthier, happier lives. Please allow me to congratulate Cuyahoga County District Board of Health for earning this distinguished award, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for seizing the opportunity to support local food in Northern Ohio!” “With the dramatic increase in childhood obesity rates and chronic disease, it is our responsibility as a public health entity to explore innovate ways to turn that trend around,” said Cuyahoga County Health Commissioner Terry Allan. “It is our intention under the 2016 USDA Farm to School award to build a momentum that creates healthier school food environments, strengthens the regional food system’s economy, and enhances connections to the classroom." “We are very pleased that the Cuyahoga County Board of Health (CCBH) has received a Fiscal Year 2016 USDA Farm to School grant. This grant opens up exciting opportunities for the CCBH to build upon existing partnerships and create new connections to increase consumption of healthy, locally grown foods in the Cuyahoga County schools. It will also benefit the local farm economy and engage students in learning about healthy foods from the ground up,” said Tim English, Midwest Regional Administrator, USDA Food and Nutrition Service. “Farm to school programs work—for schools, for producers, and for communities,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. “By serving nutritious local foods, engaging students in hands-on lessons, and involving parents and community members, these programs provide children with a holistic experience that sets them up for a lifetime of healthy eating. With early results from our Farm to School Census indicating a nearly $600 million annual investment in local products by schools nationwide, farm to school also provides a significant and reliable market for local farmers and ranchers.” According to USDA, Farm to School Grants fund school districts, state and local agencies, tribal nations, agricultural producers, and non-profit organizations in their efforts to increase local foods served through child nutrition programs, teach children about food and agriculture through garden and classroom education, and develop schools’ and farmers’ capacities to participate in farm to school. Awards ranging from $20,000 to $100,000 are distributed in four different grant categories: Planning, Implementation, Support Service, and Training. ###
11.18.2015	TOLEDO, OH– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur will host former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Europe General Wesley Clark (Ret.) for a lively discussion on America’s energy independence at 1:30pm on Friday, November 20th. This event will take place at The University of Toledo in Nitschke Hall (SSOE Room) and will include a Q&A session with the audience. General Clark and Congresswoman Kaptur will be available to take questions from media immediately after the public event concludes. As a former Director of Strategic Planning and Policy of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Clark has a unique perspective on the connections between global conflict and energy development and infrastructure. During his speech, he will share insights drawn from 34 years of service in the U.S. Army and his role as the former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. Details: WHAT : Rep. Marcy Kaptur and General Wesley Clark (Ret.) speak about U.S. energy independence (OPEN PRESS) WHERE : University of Toledo Nitschke Hall, SSOE Room WHEN : 1:30pm – public discussion and Q&A 2:30pm – media availability
11.18.2015	Members of the Ohio Delegation support Port of Cleveland’s proposal to stop open lake dumping WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), along with Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congressman Bob Gibbs (OH-7), Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congressman David P. Joyce (OH-14), and Congressman James Renacci (OH-16), sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers expressing support for the Port of Cleveland’s plan modification to permanently stop sediment dumping in Lake Erie. Following the recent dispute over how dredged material should be disposed of, the Port’s proposal would bring stability to this process and improve water quality for all Ohioans. “The dumping of dredged sediment into Lake Erie is a hazardous process that could bring significant harm to our fishing, recreation, and shipping economies, as well as our drinking water. I applaud the Port of Cleveland for proposing a plan to curtail this practice and provide a safer environment for everyone. We must protect our water resources and sustain the growth and vitality of the Great Lakes region,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “The Port of Cleveland system needs to be completely dredged every year. However, evidence has shown that dredged materials can contain dangerous legacy toxins that had been buried under rivers and lakebeds. Dumping these dredged materials directly into our lake threatens the safety of our drinking water and the ecosystems in and around Lake Erie, our most precious freshwater resource. Congress has already provided the funds needed to responsibly address this issue: keeping the port dredged and open for business without putting our lake further at risk,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Cleveland Harbor Project is a unique situation given the ecological sensitivity of Lake Erie. The health of the Cuyahoga River has come a long way, but the State of Ohio’s data shows there are still improvements to be made. I do not believe that open-lake disposal for this project to be environmentally prudent. I urge the Corps to not consider it as an option for the Port of Cleveland,” said Congressman Gibbs. “The Port of Cleveland is the economic backbone of Northeast Ohio and critical to the wellbeing of the Great Lakes and our nation. I am proud to stand with the Port and my Congressional colleagues to ensure that one of our most vital resources is not being damaged by allowing dredged sediment to be dumped back into Lake Erie,” said Congressman Ryan. "This is absolutely critical for Northeast Ohio. I’m glad we can all come together to support this request from the Port of Cleveland, not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because jobs, the economy, and the health of Lake Erie rely on it," said Congressman Joyce. “Dredging is an important tool to ensure commerce can easily move throughout northeast Ohio and the greater Great Lakes region. I believe we need to listen to all stakeholders involved so our economy continues to grow for all Ohioans,” said Congressman Renacci. Members of the Ohio Delegation sent the letter to army officials on November 13. Read the text below: Assistant Secretary of the Army, Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write today in support of a proposed project modification request pursuant to section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (128 Stat. 1360-1364) submitted by the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port of Cleveland”) on September 23, 2015. The project modification would clarify – for the Cleveland Harbor Project only – that the Federal standard mandating the use of the least costly, environmentally acceptable dredging plan not include placement of the dredged sediment into Lake Erie, unless approved by the State of Ohio under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act. The modification assures the continued federal maintenance of the Cleveland Harbor Project with upland confined placement of all dredged material. This has been the method of dredged material management since the early 1970s. Extensive study by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency determined sediment in the Federal channel remains contaminated, posing a potential threat to the local drinking water supply and the level of contaminants accumulating in the Lake’s aquatic populations. The continued maintenance of the Cleveland Harbor Project is critical to the Great Lakes region and the nation. Nearly 18,000 jobs and $1.8 billion of economic activity are tied to the approximately 15 million tons of cargo, primarily iron ore, limestone, steel, heavy machinery and equipment, moving through the Port of Cleveland and the Cuyahoga River channel each year. The Port of Cleveland also provides the only regularly scheduled service to Europe for containerized and non-containerized cargo on the Great Lakes. The Port, working in conjunction with the State of Ohio, has been an innovative, national leader in creating a viable plan for intercepting commercially valued, bed-load material before it enters the Federal channel. This program has the potential to reduce the annual volume of maintenance dredged material by as much as 15 percent. The Port is also undertaking, as part of its Confined Disposal Facility (CDF) 12 capacity management plan, the harvesting of dredged material for reuse in community improvement and road construction projects. Recycling the sediments will extend the useful life of the CDF and reduce the need to invest in new facility construction. There has been a great deal of debate surrounding the placement of sediments dredged from Cleveland waters and uncertainty as to whether funded maintenance dredging will be completed on schedule each year. Meanwhile, the concerns of the State and its citizens over the quality of Lake Erie have resulted in a policy decision to soon halt open water placement throughout the State. We share these concerns and support the project modification request by the Port of Cleveland. We believe inclusion of this project modification in the upcoming annual “Report to Congress on Future Water Resources Development” meets the 5 criteria under Section 7001(c)(1)(a) of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. This modification will avoid the yearly, unproductive standoffs threatening to injure a major economic engine for the region. The Port should be allowed to continue managing sediments of questionable quality in confined disposal areas to ensure a safe, quality environment for the citizens of Northeast Ohio. Thank for your attention to this proposal. Sincerely, Marcia L. Fudge Bob Gibbs Member of Congress Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur David P. Joyce Member of Congress Member of Congress Tim Ryan James Renacci Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced this morning that the Department of Energy (DOE) has made a new commitment of $3,700,000 to LEEDCo through DOE’s Offshore Wind Advanced Technology Demonstration Projects initiative. “LEEDCo has played a leading role in developing offshore wind energy in Northern Ohio, which has long been a hub for renewable energy development in our state,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Renewable energy supports tens of thousands of good jobs in Ohio and represents the future of our state’s, and our nation’s, energy economy. Please allow me to congratulate LEEDCo for its leadership and innovation that earned this prestigious commitment from the Department of Energy.” In its notice, DOE highlighted the “important research and development progress” LEEDCo has made in its technology designs. This new award is expected to be finalized when LEEDCo finishes its current $3,000,000 one-year DOE engineering and design project, expected by March 31, 2016. This second award will focus on “overcoming remaining barriers to the project’s successful development” based on a third-party evaluation that is expected by the end of April 2016. “DOE has been and continues to be a critical partner in pursuit of the first offshore wind project in the Great Lakes”, said Lorry Wagner, LEEDCo’s president. “This next round of investment by DOE will enable us to accomplish the objectives necessary to be positioned to construct the wind farm in the waters of Lake Erie in the summer of 2018. Rep. Kaptur’s strong support has been instrumental in securing the resources that have led to the tremendous progress we have made thus far,” Wagner added. Congresswoman Kaptur has been a longtime supporter of LEEDCo, having previously taken the Power Pledge. As Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, she has fought for increased funding for wind energy, including the offshore wind energy program currently supporting LEEDCo. She has also hosted Department of Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy David Danielson for visits to Ohio to discuss the state’s role in advancing America’s energy capabilities through LEEDCo and other initiatives. According to previous reporting, Ohio was home to 89,000 clean-energy jobs last year. ###
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) responded today to news that the 2015 Harmful Algal Bloom in Lake Erie was the most severe of any in recorded history. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Experimental Lake Erie Harmful Algal Bloom Bulletin, “The severity index [for 2015] is 10.5, as compared to 10 for the 2011 bloom.” “Lake Erie’s Harmful Algal Blooms are picking up speed,” said Rep. Kaptur. “According to NOAA’s announcement today, this year’s bloom started earlier than usual and included historically large amounts of algae through almost the entire season. Yes, results will always lag behind our responses, and we have taken measurable steps forward this year. These include improvements our HAB tracking, water treatment, and address the cause of these blooms: the growing volume of agricultural and other nutrients flooding our lake. We have also seen important groups roll up their sleeves, including Rotary Club of Toledo, Sierra Club, Lake Erie Waterkeepers, and others. But good science continues to be our best hope and guiding light, and there is still much we don’t know or don’t learn soon enough to act. Communities and local governments throughout our region should use this report to call for truly comprehensive real-time monitoring resources. The situation could not be more urgent.” According to NOAA, the 2015 HAB reached its maximum biomass in mid-August and was disrupted in September by two major cold fronts. It also points out that heavy rains in June caused record levels of agricultural discharge that month and those high levels continued into July, typically a dry month. As a result, the 2015 HAB exceeded NOAA’s pre-season projection of a bloom with a severity index of 8.7. ###
11.07.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, Ninth Congressional District of Ohio November 7, 2015 (52:06 - 1:02:41 - https://youtu.be/WJEPXRGy6GU?t=52m6s) Thank you Michael. Mrs. Poroshenko you honor us by your presence today. Mr. Severin we bow before you. Thank you for your noble life. To all esteemed guests here today and religious leaders, and to my dear friend Congressman Sander Levin of Michigan, thank you for the personal invitation to join you at this unforgettable momentous event. Thank you for the years it took to achieve this great memorial. It is appropriate today that we gather in our nation’s capital, a city marked by symbols of liberty and our most sacred monuments. To freedom-lovers everywhere, these enduring sites make permanent what is most precious to us. We do this to encourage the people of our nation and all nations to honor history. Monuments are lights illuminating humanity’s path forward. More rare are the monuments to events so tragic and singular that we know in our hearts that we must never ever forget them. They help us turn grief into conviction so that we never forget the hard lessons learned. Today we mark the anniversary of the birth of such a monument, an indelible marker that will outlive us. Generations to come must not forget the murderous and inhuman violence of Ukraine’s Holodomor genocide during the Soviet regime. The Holodomor was unprecedented in recorded history. Millions of Ukrainians of all confessions were condemned by Josef Stalin to die by starvation at the hands of a brutal and repressive Soviet government. For decades, this profound massacre was denied its rightful place in history. Our nation, too, failed to recognize and respond to that brutality, a wrong that by our presence here today we continue to right. In 1985, as a junior Member of Congress, I was privileged to co-author the legislation to create the Holodomor Commission to document the forced starvation of untold millions of Ukrainians at the hands of the Soviet Union. And in 2002, I proudly lent my strong support to Congressman Levin’s effort to construct the monument for which we are assembled today. And then last December, we were united in our support of passage of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act to meet the aggression that currently has invaded Ukraine, threatening her sovereign territorial integrity. Our own family’s maternal grandparents emigrated to America from what is Ukraine today in the early 20th century, penniless and seeking sustenance, as the post-World War One Bolshevik Revolution drove peasants into oblivion, unable to survive. However, as I discovered 60 years later, our great uncle was unable to escape and was forced to spend 20 years in the Soviet gulag where his brother died. The village of their childhood was transformed forever by the Holodomor. As one cousin related to me, her horrible memories of crawling on the ground in the winter of 1932-33 scratching the frozen soil with her fingernails trying to find a single onion to make soup for her family. This historical event is deeply personal for me as well. But it is one of which the American people have little knowledge since so many who could have lived to tell the story perished. So today we honor those who perished and we remember those who fought and died, and fight today, for liberty. The century-long Ukrainian longing for liberty has‎ flowered in our own time, and I see it in the faces of the young people in Ukraine as a travel there. It is a new day for Ukraine, and the Ukrainian people have walked toward liberty for a long time. Their passion for freedom and self-determination reminds me of America’s fight for independence 250 years ago. It is a passion that burns white hot. We have seen it repeatedly in recent years in the Orange Revolution and again at Euromaidan. You cannot conquer the spirit of a people who refuse to kneel. And this, this is the spirit of Ukraine. The people’s undying drive to liberty has foiled and infuriated tyrants time and again. And it will do so now. This monument ensures that the memory of the Holodomor Genocide, lives on. This monument alerts future generations about the cost of liberty and the fight for it, and against allowing oppressive regimes to rule over any people. The value of such a memorial should not be underestimated. It reminds us of our own history. It helps us educate and inform generations to come. And it serves as a daily reminder of the despicable deeds of totalitarian regimes that ultimately collapse under the weight of their own moral corruption. In closing, in his book Bloodlands, Dr. Timothy Snyder, who was born in the Buckeye State of Ohio, describes the tragic sacrifice of the millions upon millions of people who were forcibly starved to death in the Holodomor genocide. He says, “The good people died first. Those who refused to steal or to prostitute themselves died. Those who gave food to others died. Those who refused to eat corpses died. Those who refused to kill their fellow man died. Parents who resisted cannibalism died before their children.” This was not an act of God, but of politics and therefore of humanity. Today, three-quarters of a century later, our country, a former ally of Stalin’s regime, in the complexities of the 20th century, is working to right the historical record. In this act of the remembering of truth, we show our commitment to the spiritual admonition, “You will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” Today we seek to make America more free as well, even from the long shadow of our darkest alliances. That is why we have gathered here in our nation’s capital at the monument to the Holodomor genocide: to remember and honor noble sacrifice, and face that evil which man hath wrought; to make certain it will not happen again and that those who come after us will never, ever forget. God bless you all. (52:06 - 1:02:41 - https://youtu.be/WJEPXRGy6GU?t=52m6s)
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), co-chairs of the Congressional Full Employment Caucus, applaud the Department of Labor’s proposed rule to promote equal opportunity for Americans seeking positions in apprenticeship programs. The proposed rule comes in response to the Full Employment Caucus’s June 2014 letter asking DOL’s Employment and Training Administration to update apprenticeship regulations. “Apprenticeships—sometimes called the ‘other four-year degree’—empower hardworking students to become successful employees. When employers work with our education system to provide a smooth transition from the classroom to the shop floor, everybody wins. But as we expand this new pathway of opportunity, we must ensure that women and minorities are able to fully enjoy the benefits. I am pleased to see the Department of Labor has proposed this rule, and I will closely monitor it going forward.” said Congressman John Conyers, Jr. “An apprenticeship is a pathway to better wages and secure employment for many Americans. As apprenticeship programs expand and are utilized in new industries, we must ensure they remain available to all Americans, including women and minorities,” said Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson. “I applaud DOL’s work to promote diversity in the proven apprenticeship model.” “Apprenticeships and other forms of on-the-job training have consistently proven to be the most effective path to enter or re-enter the workforce,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “Building these initiatives forward to create and grow opportunity is an effective way to expand our workforce. And we have the opportunity and responsibility to ensure that apprenticeships and workforce training work for all people, including for women and minority candidates. The Department of Labor is to be applauded for their work on this rule and in the broader effort to improve our best apprenticeship models.” The proposed rule, the first proposed update since 1978, was announced during the Department of Labor’s first annual National Apprenticeship Week. The Congressional Full Employment Caucus letter to DOL can be found here. More information on the proposed rule can be found here. ###
11.05.2015	Small Asian carp shown to find ways around existing preventative measures WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) challenged representatives of federal agencies testifying at a meeting of the Great Lakes Task Force to redouble their efforts to block invasive Asian carp from reaching Lake Erie. Kaptur, a Great Lakes Task Force co-chair in the House of Representatives, has repeatedlycalledfor complete hydrologic separation as the best and only permanent solution to address the threat posed by the invasive species. “Invasive Asian carp are on Lake Erie’s doorstep,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I am concerned that our federal agencies are failing to mount a sufficient response. We know juvenile Asian carp continue to advance in the tributaries that feed the Great Lakes. And our government still can’t even tell us, after years of research, how many Asian carp we’re dealing with and where they are. Recent analysis has shown those same small carp could be carried through electric barriers between or beneath traveling ships. It is increasingly clear that complete hydrologic separation is the only long-term solution that can stop the advance of this invasive species. Our federal agencies have a responsibility to the public to accept this reality and respond decisively and with dispatch.” The meeting included testimony from all federal agencies in the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee: JoEllen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Cameron Davis, Great Lakes Senior Advisor at U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Charlie Wooley, Midwest Deputy Regional Director at U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, Dr. Leon Carl, Midwest Regional Director at U.S. Geological Survey, Rear Admiral June Ryan, Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard’s Ninth District, and Deborah Lee, Director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory. Other Great Lakes lawmakers at the event included Senators Kirk, Stabenow, Portman, Klobuchar, Baldwin, Franken, Durbin, Peters as well as Representatives Levin, Kildee, Lawrence, Moore, Dingell, Joyce, Benishek, Dold, among others. ###
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C.— Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Duncan Hunter (R-CA) led a bipartisan group of 37 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama tonight calling on the Administration to immediately release the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement. “Just 15 years ago, our country had more than 17.1 million Americans employed in the manufacturing sector,” the letter reads. “Today, that number has fallen by nearly five million. Given that the TPP has been sold to Congress and the American people based on its ability to change this trajectory and strengthen economic opportunity here at home, the American people deserve the chance to judge the full text of the deal for themselves.” A final TPP agreement was announced as final on October 5th, nearly one month ago. However, the final text of that agreement remains hidden while administration officials continue to lobby for the deal in the press and on Capitol Hill. The letter is signed by Reps. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Mo Brooks (R-AL), David Cicilline (D-RI), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Walter Jones (R-NC), David Joyce (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Bruce Poliquin (R-ME), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Robert Wittman (R-VA), Ted Yoho (R-FL), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined with other leading Democratic this morning to launch the Affordable Drug Pricing Task Force to push for meaningful action to address skyrocketing or predatory prescription drug prices. Video of Rep. Kaptur’s remarks is available here. “When the de facto slogan of the pharmaceutical industry has become ‘your money or your life,’ it’s past time to act,” said Rep. Kaptur. “We have reached the point where America’s seniors, as well as our poorest and most vulnerable citizens, live in fear that their next prescription refill will drive them into financial ruin or leave them without the medicine they need. Congress has a moral responsibility, as well overwhelming public support, to act on this issue. I am proud to join the distinguished members of this Task Force to stand up for the American people against this craven exploitation.” Other Members in the Task Force include Reps. Cummings, Levin, McDermott, DeLauro, Schakowsky, Welch, Kaptur, and Cicilline. “While enjoying both generous tax breaks and government subsidized research, the pharmaceutical industry claims that it must engage in price gouging of Americans to fund research for the world’s consumers,” Mr. Doggett added. “Innovation versus accessibility is really a false choice. And innovation means very little if cost denies access to new drugs.” Earlier this year, Rep. Kaptur successfully placed language into the Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education Appropriations bill directing the HHS Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to report to Congress within 120 days of the bill’s enactment with an analysis of prescription drug price increases to “review how the Federal Government has achieved competitive cost reductions for drugs since 2001.” Once completed, the analysis will be used to identify possible cost savings available through the expansion of collective bidding and bulk price negotiation. Rep. Kaptur’s amendment was one of three proposed by Democrats and accepted by Republicans, out of a total of approximately 30 total amendments proposed by Democrats on the House Appropriations committee. A recent Kaiser Health Tracking Poll found 77 percent of respondents say the top health care priority for the President and Congress should be making sure high-cost drugs for chronic conditions are affordable for those who need them. 63 percent the top priority should be government action to lower prescription drug costs, including a majority of Republican respondents (56%). Important widely-prescribed drugs, including Humulin RU-500 to treat diabetes and EpiPen for allergic reactions, have increased in price by 200 to 300 percent from 2007 to 2014. According to the New York Times, “the prices of some generic drugs have soared more than 1,000 percent” in one year. Dr. J.B. Silvers, health care finance professor at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, observes that the biggest price spikes are in specialty drugs that are usually injected. “The ones we've seen lately are existing drugs where somebody else buys the existing drug and then cranks up the price until somebody can come in and compete with them and that's pure exploitation," said Silvers. ###
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— House Ukraine Caucus Chairs Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Sandy Levin (MI-09), and 18 other Ukraine Caucus Members, yesterday sent a bipartisan letter to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee urging the full Committee to hold a hearing investigating the circumstances surrounding the crash of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17. The Dutch Safety Board, conducting its own official investigation, recently released findings on the crash that implicate a missile launched from a Russian Buk missile system. Russia has blocked attempts by the United Nations to pursue a more complete investigation. “The report makes it clear that the Buk is a Soviet, and later Russian-made, medium range, mobile weapon system. We urge the Committee to examine the circumstances surrounding the crash of flight MH17, with particular attention to communication of Russia-backed rebel groups,” the Members wrote. All 298 people aboard flight MH17 died in the crash. You can read the full text of the letter here. ###
10.26.2015	Originally published in Kyiv Post Oct. 26, 2015, 8:41 p.m. | Op-ed — by Andrew Fedynsky, Marcy Kaptur, Mike Fitzpatrick Since World War II, the trans-Atlantic alliance between the United States and its European allies has stood as a beacon of liberty and hope for subjugated people around the world. This alliance won a 40-year struggle when the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, followed by the collapse of the Soviet Union two years later. Soviet Communists and Nazi Fascists were defeated on the continent where they had taken root. Hungary, Poland, the Baltic States, the Czech and Slovak republics entered NATO’s mutual security pact. Former captive nations became free. Next year, Ukraine will celebrate a quarter century of independence. Liberty has been on the march on the European continent. Today the story is more ominous. On April 27, 2014, Russian President Vladimir Putin admitted to the world that his military had invaded Ukraine. Already, more than 1.4 million people have been displaced. At least 8,000 have been killed and nearly 20,000 injured. Russia continues to illegally occupy Crimea and Ukraine’s eastern provinces. This is not the first time Russia has stormed the borderlands surrounding it. But unlike in the past, this Russian invasion has gone largely unchecked. Now Russia, emboldened by its perception of Western weakness, has launched airstrikes over Syria. This has added lethal complexity to the conflict and created ever-greater waves of Syrian, Iraqi, Afghani, Eritrean, and Pakistani refugees flowing into Europe by way of Turkey, Greece, Libya, and points east. Human traffickers aid the flow to NATO's doorstep. Europe’s southeasterly edge of Hungary, Serbia, Croatia, Macedonia, etc. has struggled to handle this massive flight and is overwhelmed.‎ NATO has been slow to respond. Vladimir Putin benefits from destabilizing the European Union‎ and the trans-Atlantic alliance. From his perspective, exacerbating conflict is a strategic plus. Germany, which has stood strong on Russian sanctions in response to the illegal invasion of Ukraine, is now the principal destination for refugees. NATO members Hungary, Austria, Poland, and others also face security pressures on their borders, as legions of Arab, Pashtun and other refugees challenge Europe's internal cohesion. How intense will the backlash to the refugee flow become across Europe, with the Russian propaganda machine spewing out venom across the continent? Initially, Europe has had the means to address the challenge. But it is a heavy burden as refugees fill railway stations, school auditoriums, and parks. Meanwhile NATO-vacated properties in Germany are sitting unused. They could be converted into emergency holding areas to accept refugees, heal the wounded, verify documents, and repatriate or resettle them in Middle Eastern nations or elsewhere. The United States and the free world did this well after World War II. Past U.S. presidents have stood strong against Soviet aggression. John F. Kennedy made a lasting impression in his Berlin address in 1963 when he said “Ich bin ein Berliner!” In 1987, Ronald Reagan traveled to the Brandenburg Gate and challenged Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev, “Tear down this wall!” In 1990 America led its allies in a military campaign defending Kuwait against Iraq's invasion. Four years later the United States, Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom signed the Budapest Memorandum, which “reaffirmed” their commitment to “respect the independence and sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine” in return for that country dismantling its vast nuclear weapons arsenal—the third largest in the world. A serious promise was made; it is not being kept. Ukraine’s stability is critical to European stability. The Ukrainian people have held fast even in the face of a vastly more powerful invading force. Out-manned and out-gunned, they have exercised an iron will to keep Russia’s imperial march in check. Yet America and its allies have mostly looked away while Ukraine’s long-suffering Western-leaning people are under siege. Americans traveling to Ukraine are welcomed and cheered. Ukrainians endeavor to be America’s partners, but America must lead the free world forward. Winter is coming. Russia seeks to score a huge victory by seizing Ukraine's most valuable economic regions. Ukraine’s soldiers need modern telecommunications equipment and weapons to stop Russian tanks. ‎The wounded need medical supplies. Before the snow flies, the beleaguered people of Ukraine must be given hope akin to World War II’s Berlin Airlift. Mobilizing global assistance to Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon would also help stem refugee flows to Europe. The world must not accept Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine or the consequences will continue to spill over. If Ukraine's dire plight is not addressed soon, there could be millions more refugees steaming across Europe in the coming months and years. The trans-Atlantic alliance has a duty and a compelling moral and geo-strategic interest to aid in Ukraine’s defense, help treat the wounded and increase humanitarian assistance. For the sake of liberty in Europe and around the world, America, NATO, and the trans-Atlantic alliance must lead. The world is waiting.‎ Marcy Kaptur is a Democratic Party member of Congress from Ohio. Mike Fitzpatrick is a Republican Party member from Pennsylvania. Andrew Fedynsky is a resident scholar at the Ukrainian Museum-Archives in Cleveland, Ohio.
10.22.2015	Local organizations may be eligible for help recovering from snow, freezing temperatures in first half of 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has announced the availability of federal disaster loans following excessive snow and extremely cold temperatures in Ohio and Michigan earlier in the year. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) is urging eligible Lucas County businesses and organizations that were affected by extreme weather earlier this year to apply for this support. “This is an important opportunity for our small businesses, farm co-ops, and non-profit organizations to recover from losses resulting from the unexpectedly harsh weather conditions earlier this year,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I strongly encourage local businesses and organizations that were impacted by those conditions toconsider applying for this SBA loan support.” This announcement comes on the heels of a disaster declaration by USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack in Monroe County, Michigan. Frank Skaggs, director of SBA’s Field Operations Center East in Atlanta, explained why Lucas County was included. “This county is eligible because it is contiguous to one or more primary counties in Michigan. The Small Business Administration recognizes that disasters do not usually stop at county or state lines. For that reason, counties adjacent to primary counties named in the declaration are included.” As a result of this declaration, SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loans are now available to Lucas County small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, and most private non-profit organizations of any size that suffered financial losses as a direct result of excessive snow, freeze and extremely cold temperatures from January 1 through June 3, 2015. Loans may be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable, and other bills that could have been paid had the disaster not occurred. They are not intended to replace lost sales or profits. Loan amounts can be up to $2 million with interest rates of 2.625 percent for private non-profit organizations and 4 percent for small businesses, with terms up to 30 years. Eligibility is determined based on the size of the applicant organization, type of activity, and its financial resources. Completed loan applications must be returned to SBA no later than June 14, 2016. For more information or to apply, visit https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela or contact SBA’s Customer Service Center by phone at 800-659-2955 or by email at disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Those who are deaf or hard-of-hearing can call 800-877-8339. Loan applications can also be downloaded from the SBA’s website at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. ###
10.21.2015	Presence of recently-threatened staff position strengthened by selection of experienced leader WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) praised the selection of Barbara Fearon, a 27-year veteran of the National Park Service (NPS), as the new Superintendent of Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorialtoday. Earlier this year Kaptur celebrated a hard-won victory in her fight to retain the full-time superintendent position at Perry’s Memorial. “The appointment of a new highly-qualified full-time Superintendent at Perry’s Memorial is welcome news, especially after we learned that services could be cut at this increasingly popular and important landmark,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I am pleased that the NationalPark Service has selected someone with experience managing this site and others in Northern Ohio. With a growing numbers of visits and increasing community activity at Perry’s Memorial, I am confident that the Park Service will be well-served by this appointment for years to come.” Fearon has served as Acting Superintendent at the site for the past six months. Before that, she served as Chief of Business Management at Cuyahoga Valley National Park. In announcing the appointment, National Park Service Midwest Regional Director Cam Sholly said:“I am pleased to welcome Barbara Fearon as the Superintendent of Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial. Barbara is a great fit to lead this park. She has solid experience in park management, exceptional business acumen, and a proven track record of solving complex problems through collaboration.” Of her new assignment, Fearon said, “I am truly honored to be selected as the Superintendent of Perry’s Victory as we celebrate the National Park Service Centennial and look toward the future. I am excited to work with the park staff, partners and volunteers, and the residents of Put-in-Bay and South Bass Island, to continue to tell this important story and preserve this special place.” Earlier this year Rep. Kaptur discovered that NPS was conducting a review that could have led to the elimination of the full-time supervisor at the site. Kaptur spearheaded a joint letter to the National Park Service (NPS) with other members of the Ohio Congressional delegation to oppose any consolidation at Perry’s Memorial. She subsequently secured a commitment from Congressional leaders to work with her to maintain staffing and services at the site. One week later, NPS announced that the site would remain an independent Park Service unit and maintain its full-time superintendent. Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is the second most visited NPS site in the State of Ohio, receiving close to 130,000 visitors each year and reaching more than twice as many individuals through education programs and community outreach. ###
10.16.2015	Letter encourages President to include project in FY 2017 budget WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined with Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH) and Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) today to send a letter to President Barack Obama today requesting the construction of an annex and renovations of the historic James M. Ashley and Thomas W.L. Ashley United States Courthouse in Toledo, Ohio be included the Fiscal Year 2017 budget request. The Federal Judiciary has recognized Toledo’s need by placing the courthouse at the top of the Federal Judiciary Courthouse Project Priorities list. The signers asked the President to ensure this remains a top priority of the Federal Judiciary. “After visiting the James M. Ashley and Thomas W.L. Ashley U.S. Courthouse, it is evident that the building is severely outdated, does not meet minimum security standards, and lacks adequate space to function efficiently,” said Latta. “The renovation of the Federal Courthouse is necessary for the judges, federal prosecutors and staff to effectively serve the Northern District of Ohio.” “The employees and community members who utilize the James M. Ashley and Thomas W. L. Ashley United States Courthouse deserve a functional and safe building,” Brown said. “Federal funding for renovations will help ensure that the men and women working inside the courthouse can continue to serve the public.” "By making necessary renovations to the Toledo Courthouse, we can preserve the historic integrity of the building while also ensuring the safety of those working in the courthouse," said Portman. “The request from the Judicial Branch for nearly $100 million in construction and renovation at Toledo's Ashley Courthouse is welcome news. Although the reality of budgetary constraints at the federal level make any federal construction project difficult, Toledo's elevation to the top of the Judiciary's list gives a significant boost to our bipartisan efforts to address security and space concerns at Toledo's historic courthouse. We urge the President to include funding for Toledo in his annual budget request,” stated Kaptur. Letter to President Obama (LINK) ###
10.14.2015	Tour includes visits to local manufacturers from Port Clinton to Cleveland WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) completed a whirlwind tour of businesses along the Northern Ohio Manufacturing Corridor today as part of her #ExIm4Ohio jobs tour. Rep. Kaptur toured each site to learn about how the loss of U.S. Export-Import Bank services would impact these local businesses and their surrounding communities. The tour included visits to Port Clinton Manufacturing in Port Clinton, A.J. Rose Manufacturing in Avon, and MAGNET and Cleveland Whiskey in Cleveland. “Today was about supporting job creation and building globally competitive industries in Northern Ohio’s manufacturing corridor,”said Rep. Kaptur. “Meeting with business owners and workers today made this absolutely clear: local manufacturing in our region has extraordinary potential. The U.S. Export-Import Bank is an important source of support that can, and does, help these hard working Ohioans reach for that potential.” “Whether it was a company with a century of local history or one whose products are just hitting the shelves, these business owners and their workers recognize the importance of growing our region’s exports,” Kaptur added. “I urge my colleagues in Congress, especially my fellow Ohioans, to support local economic growth and opportunity and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank without further delay.” Rep. Kaptur’s tour began at Port Clinton Manufacturing in Port Clinton, Ohio. The company started as a marine fabrication and repair shop in 1929. They currently serve as a tier I original equipment manufacturer (OEM) parts supplier for engine builders engaged in rail transportation and gas & oil mining businesses. The company maintains 30 full time tradesmen, operators, and staff in Port Clinton, Ohio. According to owner Dan Stotts, all of the company’s major customers use the U.S. Export-Import Bank extensively. If those customers, including General Electric, move operations outside the U.S., it would have major negative implications for this company. From Dan Stott, President and Owner of Port Clinton Manufacturing: “Thank you to Congresswoman Kaptur and her team for visiting our plant this week. We feel very honored. While we don’t use the services of the Export-Import Bank directly, it provides a major service to many of our customers. Without the bank, Port Clinton Manufacturing’s business would surely suffer and that could mean fewer jobs and less opportunity in our community.” After her stop in Port Clinton, Rep. Kaptur traveled to A.J. Rose Manufacturing in Avon, Ohio. A.J. Rose was founded in 1922 as a tool shop on the west side of Cleveland. Today they manufacture and assemble precision-formed metal products for cars, trucks, and farm equipment. Their products are exported to markets in Germany, Mexico, Canada, Brazil and China, a fact made possible thanks to Ex-Im Bank’s Lender Loan Guarantee. Using this service made it possible for PNC Bank to provide A.J. Rose Manufacturing with a three-year revolving $1.5 million working capital loan. The company is nowlisted as an Export-Import Bank Success Story. From Douglas E. Krzywicki, CFO of A.J. Rose Manufacturing Co.: “As a global supplier, it is imperative that our business be able to supply parts to our customers’ facilities around the world. With U.S. banks unwilling to lend against foreign receivables, more than 20 percent of our collateral would be lost without the guarantee provided by the Ex-Im Bank. This loss of credit would directly impact our ability to grow based on our current customer mix. Our industry, like many others, is competing globally. The uncertainty of the Ex-Im Bank causes concern to businesses such as ours as we try to make long term plans to grow, hire, and invest in capital.” For her final stop on the tour, Rep. Kaptur traveled to Cleveland to tour Cleveland Whiskey and meet with President and CEO Tom Lix as well as Ethan Karp, President and CEO of The Manufacturing Advocacy and Growth Network (MAGNET). Cleveland Whiskey was founded in July 2009 as a start-up in MAGNET’s incubator, allowing the company to make use of the Cuyahoga County New Product Development Loan Fund, administered by MAGNET, as well as MAGNET's Product Design & Development (PDD) engineering team. From Ethan Karp, President and CEO of MAGNET: “MAGNET’s sole mission is to grow manufacturing companies throughout Northeast Ohio, because a growing manufacturing sector means more jobs, stronger communities, and a more vibrant regional economy. The Export Import Bank is an important asset to small- and medium-sized manufacturers, and even catalyzes their growth and new job creation. For that reason, we support the Bank’s reauthorization.” Cleveland Whiskey uses a patented and proprietary method to accelerate the maturation of whiskey and bourbon, taking only six months to achieve the level of aging that is typical after 8 to 12 years through conventional means. Their branded whiskey hit store shelves in March of 2013. Foreign demand for U.S.-made whiskey and bourbon, especially in Japan and India, far exceeds what can be supplied currently. Because their innovative technology allows them to age their product in a fraction of a time, Cleveland Whiskey is able to manufacture and supply at rates far greater than their competitors. The company is an excellent candidate to grow with Ex-Im Bank support. However, the Bank’s Congressional authorization is currently expired, meaning it is only allowed to service existing agreements. From Tom Lix, President and CEO of Cleveland Whiskey: “It’s simple, the Export Import Bank would help us reduce financial risk, open new markets and allow us to hire new people. We started exporting to Germany last year and we’re working hard at opening new markets in Asia. Having the bank reauthorized would give us a big boost and certainly accelerate our growth.” Facts about Ex-Im: - From 2007-2015, Ex-Im Bank services supported 362 Ohio exporters, 237 Ohio small businesses, and at least $3,036,260,888 in Ohio exports. 89.9% of all beneficiaries in Ohio are manufacturers. - In Ohio’s 9th Congressional District from 2007-2015, Ex-Im supported 17 exporters, 13 small businesses, 14 manufacturers, and $35,813,019 value of exports. - The Bank more than pays for itself. Last year Ex-Im Bank contributed $675 million to the U.S. Treasury and nearly $7 billion over the past 20 years. It also has an extremely low default rate on its loans: 0.175% - More than 90 percent of Ex-Im Bank transactions last year directly supported U.S. small businesses. They also make up the largest share of total financing support - just under 40 percent, or $10.7 billion. - More than 50 countries have an export-import bank including China, Japan, Germany, India, Korea, France, Brazil, and Canada. ###
10.08.2015	Department of Education Awarded Ohio $71 Million to Expand Charter Schools Despite Accountability and Transparency Concerns WASHINGTON, D.C.– Amidst reports that certain charter schools in Ohio are misspending taxpayer dollars and falsifying data, members of the Ohio delegation, led by U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), called on the U.S. Department of Education (ED) to strengthen accountability and transparency for Ohio’s charter schools. In a letter to ED Secretary Arne Duncan, Brown and U.S. Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Marcia Fudge (D-OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3), called on him to clarify how ED ensured that falsified data was not used to evaluate an Ohio grant application and to take steps to ensure that the funding awarded to Ohio will be used appropriately. “Parents and taxpayers deserve to know that our classrooms are providing students with a quality education,” Brown said. “The fraud we’ve seen from some charter schools and state officials engage is unacceptable. The Department of Education must strengthen oversight and ensure that this federal funding is used to benefit charter school operators that are working hard to make sure all children who attend receive the education they deserve.” “There is no denying that Ohio’s charter school oversight system is broken. Parents should not be the only ones worrying if their children are getting the education they deserve – our state government has the responsibility to ensure that Ohio students are not being underserved by their schools. I look forward to seeing the U.S. Department of Education’s plan to ensure these funds are used to improve education for Ohio children,” said Ryan. “Ohio’s education system benefits immensely from this level of federal support. However, directing federal funds to the state’s troubled charter school system raises important questions and more than a few eyebrows as it appears to lack proper oversight or accountability,”said Kaptur. “With a few important exceptions such as Breakthrough Schools in Cleveland, Ohio’s charter system overall has a record of misusing funds and abusing the public’s trust. It is my fervent hope that the U.S. Department of Education will reevaluate the distribution of federal support to Ohio schools to ensure that they are spent responsibly and appropriately on properly educating Ohio’s school children.” “A lack of transparency and meaningful oversight has failed many of our state’s charter school students … that cannot continue,” said Fudge. “As a member of the House Education & Workforce Committee, and Ranking Member of the Early Childhood Elementary & Secondary Education Subcommittee, mending our state’s charter school system is one of my top priorities. We must ensure Ohio’s children get a quality education and ultimately benefit from these funds.” “High-quality schools are central to building and sustaining our communities, including charter schools. I expect the U.S. Department of Education and the Ohio Department of Education will be accountable with these federal funds so that Ohio’s students receive the education that they deserve,” said Beatty. In their letter, the delegation urged ED to increase oversight of charter schools and to restrict these funds from being used to finance a takeover of Ohio public school districts. The members also praised Ohio’s several high-quality charter schools and urged ED to ensure that grants are only awarded to charter school operators with proven records of success. In July, David Hansen, the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, resigned after admitting to deliberately leaving out failing grades of online charter schools. Despite these allegations, the U.S. Department of Education (ED) awarded the Ohio Department of Education a $71 million dollar grant last week to expand charter schools in Ohio. The full letter is below. October 7, 2015 The Honorable Arne Duncan Secretary Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary Duncan: Last week, the Ohio Department of Education was awarded a $71 million dollar grant as part of the United States Department of Education’s (USDOE) Charter Schools Program. As you know, the Ohio charter school sector has been beset by so many problems, especially in the for-profit and online sector, that charter school advocates have referred to Ohio as the “Wild, Wild West” of charter schools.[1] This atmosphere of lax regulation has now cast a pall over this grant award. In July 2015, the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, David Hansen, resigned after acknowledging that he manipulated charter school data. Mr. Hansen prepared Ohio’s grant application, and there have been allegations that Ohio’s grant application was based on false or misleading assertions by the Ohio Department of Education. Following the grant award, Ohio’s Auditor of State Dave Yost noted that he was “shocked” that Ohio received the grant the given the state’s poor track record at ensuring that charters do not misspend tax dollars.[2] According to a review by the Akron Beacon Journal, Ohio charter schools misspend public money almost four times as often than any other type of public sector agency.[3] We accordingly urge you to take steps to ensure that this funding is spent appropriately and that it is used to help improve the poor performance of many charter school operators in the state. In order to better understand that process by which this grant was awarded we would appreciate a response to the below questions by November 30, 2015. 1) Was the USDOE aware of Mr. Hansen’s manipulation of Ohio charter school data during the grant review process? What steps were taken to independently verify that this data was not part of the review process? 2) Despite long standing concerns regarding charter school performance and accountability in Ohio, the USDOE’s Technical Review Form for this grant states that, “Ohio has established high and exacting accountability expectations of authorizers (including evaluation against standards) and, inferentially, schools.” What is the basis for this statement? What steps did the Department of Education take to independently verify assertions made in Ohio’s application for this grant program? 3) How many of the peer reviewers who reviewed this application came from charter school advocacy organizations? What are the backgrounds of the reviewers? 4) How are often are these special conditions attached to charter school grant award? Were special conditions attached to any other awardees this year? How do the conditions attached to this award compare to those attached to other grant awards? 5) Ohio’s efforts to increase accountability in the charter school sector have long been stalled in the state legislature. Is the USDOE directing that grant funds be used to improve oversight of Ohio’s charter schools? 6) According to recent reports, Ohio education officials filled out the grant application intending to direct money to charter school startups in “academically distressed areas.” Only Youngstown and Lorain currently fit this description. Is the Department of Education prepared to take any steps to ensure that these funds are not used to finance a state takeover of these school districts? In Ohio and across the nation there are concerns about how some charter schools are spending taxpayer dollars and educating students. As you work to exercise oversight over the Charter Schools Program, we urge you to strengthen charter school accountability and transparency in order help prevent fraud and abuse and to ensure that all children who attend a charter school receive the education they deserve. Finally, there are a number of high-quality charter schools in Ohio. These schools, like Breakthrough Schools in Cleveland and KIPP in Columbus, do an excellent job of educating students and should be commended for their efforts. We urge you to place restrictions on this grant funding to ensure that funds: 1) are only provided to charter school operators with a proven record of high performance and 2) are not used to finance a takeover of Ohio public school districts. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ### [1] https://www.cleveland.com/metro/index.ssf/2014/07/ohio_is_the_wild_wild_west_of.html [2] https://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/local/2015/10/03/auditor-shocked-by-71m-grant-for-charters.html [3] https://www.ohio.com/news/local/charter-schools-misspend-millions-of-ohio-tax-dollars-as-efforts-to-police-them-are-privatized-1.596318
10.06.2015	Calls on stakeholders to learn from process, focus final site proposals on co-location of veterans services WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) responded to news today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will temporarily relocate its Lorain Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Sheffield Village, far from other veterans service providers in the City of Lorain. Her full statement: “Today’s announcement that the VA will temporarily relocate its Lorain clinic outside of Lorain city limits is disappointing, but it presents an important opportunity to regroup and present a plan that co-locates services for the region’s veterans in a way that will win the VA’s approval. Based on my ongoing conversation with Secretary McDonald, the City of Lorain and others have an opportunity to use what we have learned in this process and develop a successful bid that will result in a grouping of veterans services including those provided through Valor Home, LCCC, the Veterans Service Commission, and more. Locating the Lorain VA clinic within the City of Lorain must be a priority. My office has received roughly 2,600 petitions from constituent veterans calling for the permanent facility to be located within the City of Lorain. Co-location of veterans services there makes a great deal of sense. More than 70 percent of the veteranswho live in the City of Lorain are age 55 or older. 35 percent are classified as disabled and 10 percent live below the poverty line. These numbers are notably higher than for the civilian population in the city. What’s more, there is no public transportation system currently serving Lorain County. Permanently relocating the facility outside of the City of Lorain would severely limit access to healthcare services for many veterans in Northern Ohio, and especially in Lorain. The City and other stakeholders must now be competently aggressive in preparing a realistic, community-supported bid that will respond to all of the VA’s feedback on the original proposal. I will continue to facilitate this effort in any way I can and will support all parties, including the City of Lorain, that submit plans to co-locate the CBOC in an appropriately central location with the other veterans service providers. This is vital to our effort to ensure that Lorain’s veterans, and veterans throughout Northern Ohio, can continue to receive the best possible care without interruption.” Congresswoman Kaptur has been a frequent advocate for Lorain’s CBOC facility over the past decade, especially during the past several years as part of efforts to keep the VA’s CBOC facility in the City of Lorain. Rep. Kaptur has toured the current CBOC facility several times and has engaged the VA at the highest level with, and on behalf of, the Mayor and the City of Lorain. She has also held or participated in numerous local and regional meetings and conversations with Louis Stokes Medical Center Director Susan Fuhrer and VA regional contracting offices, the Lorain Veterans Council, Lorain County Veteran Service Commission, the VALOR HOME, as well as the local DAV and VFW chapters. ###
10.05.2015	Toledo Northwestern Ohio Food Bank and Maumee Valley Growers Association to expand efforts in Toledo Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) welcomed news today that two Northern Ohio food organizations, the Toledo Northwestern Ohio Food Bank and Maumee Valley Growers Association, have been awarded a combined $190,364 by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to support local food and nutrition initiatives in Toledo, Ohio. “This is great news for the Toledo community and surrounding region, as these awards will help combat hunger, encourage healthy eating, and support our local food producers,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Northern Ohio produces ample amounts of fresh, healthy, delicious food but 97 percent of what we eat here comes from somewhere else. What a lost opportunity! These awards will help strengthen the connection between the food we grow and the way our community feeds itself. That also means getting food that lasts longer on our shelves and in our refrigerators, and using less fuel to ship that food. Congratulations to Toledo Northwestern Ohio Food Bank and Maumee Valley Growers Association for earning this federal recognition and support.” Toledo Northwestern Ohio Food Bank, Inc. will receive $90,364 through USDA’s Farmers Market Promotion Program for an initiative that will “provide information, skills, motivation and access to locally grown fruits and vegetables by implementing a mobile market that provides individuals with healthy guidelines, develops and distributes recipes to use fresh produce, and accepts Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits.” Maumee Valley Growers Association will receive $100,000 to support an initiative to “pursue and develop a new food hub operation entitled “The Toledo Area Food Hub” located in Toledo’s central city adjacent to the Farmers’ Market.” MVGA is made up of more than 70 regional greenhouse growers. Joe Perlaky, Executive Director of the Maumee Valley Growers, added: “This award is another important step forward for our community, our organization and many others in our region regarding our local foods initiative and our challenges addressing our food deserts in the central city. It comes at the heels of our successful Food Hub strategic plan and Farmer’s Market promotional grant” ###
10.05.2015	Criticizes deal for failing to take serious steps on jobs or closed markets Toledo, OH — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) responded today to news that Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiators announced the completion of a framework for the global trade deal: "Our nation needs trade deals that create jobs in America and open closed markets abroad so we can sell our products there, not another deal negotiated by global elites that will outsource America’s jobs and fail to open closed markets. This deal will fail America again because critical issues such as automotive market access, currency manipulation, environmental standards, and patent protections for inventors don't meet the test of open, fair trade. Further, critical sectors including autos have been passed over or negotiated into side agreements that are notorious for not being enforced. How can Congress approve any agreement that threatens an industry so vital to America's economic future? The TPP has been shrouded in secrecy from the start, and even now we don't have access to the full text. When the text finally does get to Congress, the elected representatives of the American people will have no chance to amend it. It will be rigged on a rule to throttle debate through Congress on a fast track timetable with no amendment allowed. This is particularly troubling for a deal that opens the floodgates to a transfer of power from the American people to global elites and state-run economies. Look at the millions of lost U.S. job and trillions of dollars of lost economic impact hollowing out these deals. Deals like this have wreaked havoc across our economy over the past quarter century of their existence: NAFTA, the Korea-US FTA, now TPP. It's the same playbook. History has repeatedly shown us that massive global free trade deals outsource good jobs, drive down wages, dismantle American industries, weaken U.S. competitiveness, open the door to foreign market manipulation, and put U.S. working families on the path to poverty. I will continue to do all I can to stop this kind of dangerous job-killing deal.” ###
10.04.2015	By Marcy Kaptur and James P. Hoffa on October 04, 2015 at 9:15 AM - Originally published by The Plain Dealer On Labor Day 1974, President Gerald Ford signed the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) into law. That law, more than a decade in the making, protected trillions of dollars in earned retirement pension benefits and enacted minimum protection standards on retirement pension plans for American workers. This year, as we celebrate its 41st anniversary, ERISA's pension protections are crumbling. A few weeks ago, the U.S. Treasury Department held a hearing in Washington, D.C., on finalizing a rule that opens the door to significant pension cuts including for current retirees. More than 100 retirees traveled to Washington, D.C., at their own expense to protest, and dozens spoke out against the rule at the hearing. If that rule is finalized, it would be the first time since President Ford signed ERISA into law that pension retirement security is compromised. This pressing threat to workers' and retirees' pension plans emerged late last year when a last-minute provision was added to the eleventh-hour "Cromnibus" bill, a bill that needed to pass to prevent a shutdown of the federal government. That provision opened the door for multiemployer pension plans to cut benefits for retirees, putting the earned benefits of roughly 1.5 million employees and retirees at risk. But it's not too late for Congress to stop the clock and do the right thing for current and future retirees. Congress needs to pass the Keep Our Pension Promises Act, or KOPPA (H.R. 2844/S.1631), legislation proposed by Rep. Marcy Kaptur of Ohio and Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont that would ensure a secure retirement for millions of Americans. This legislation would restore anti-cutback rules for current retirees, shore up at-risk multiemployer pension plans by closing two tax loopholes used mostly by wealthy estates, and use the proceeds to set up a special fund for "orphaned" participants whose employers are no longer in operation. ERISA has a longstanding prohibition against cuts to private pension benefits for retired workers, a prohibition in imminent danger of being dissolved. Eliminating that protection sets a dangerous precedent that could pave the way for future cuts to state and local pension plans, possibly even extending to single-employer pension plans and Social Security. Cutting earned pensions would also move many seniors from a safety-net system supported mostly by employers to one funded entirely by taxpayers. KOPPA was introduced to fix the troubled pension system without cutting earned benefits, reversing last year's last-minute misstep. It restores anti-cutback rules so that retirees in financially troubled multiemployer pension plans are protected from having their earned benefits cut. And it ensures that the safety-net system supported mostly by employers does not shift to one funded entirely by taxpayers. KOPPA also strengthens and secures existing plans by creating a partition around those participants and retirees whose employers have left pension plans due to bankruptcy or closure. This will protect and provide relief to participating employers from having to cover the benefits of these "orphan" participants and retirees. In order to shore up the long-term sustainability of the existing federal pension insurance program, KOPPA creates a $30 billion legacy fund over 10 years, paid for by closing two tax loopholes used almost exclusively by the super-rich to avoid paying taxes. KOPPA prioritizes the increased security of all pensions. It is the only proposal that stops the countdown clock for retirees and keeps us from going over the pension cliff. Unless Congress moves forward with KOPPA or similar legislation, the clock will tick down for those retirees who rely on earned pension benefits to support themselves and their loved ones in retirement. The futures of some 1.5 million workers who are enrolled in about 200 retirement plans nationwide are at risk, and potentially many more in the future, if we do not act. We must take action now and stand up to these cuts. We owe it to hardworking Americans who have earned the ability to retire with dignity. We must stand up to these cuts and restore ERISA's protections before time runs out. Democratic U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur of Toledo represents the 9th Congressional District, which includes parts of Cleveland. James P. Hoffa is general president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
10.02.2015	More than 4,500 students benefitted from Perkins Loans in Lucas, Ottawa, Erie, Lorain, Cuyahoga Counties last year WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) rebuked Republican Senate Leadership today after the Senate blocked renewal of the federal Perkins Loan program, allowing the popular student financial aid initiative to expire and preventing colleges from making any new federal Perkins loans to students in need of financial support. Earlier this week the House passed a one-year extension to the Perkins Loan program. More than 500,000 students were awarded student loans through the initiative last year alone. “I am deeply disappointed that Republican Senate leadership has chosen to indulge the ideological whims of a single powerful Senator at the expense of thousands of Ohioans and millions of students across the U.S.” said Rep. Kaptur. “Perkins loans have a 50 year history of creating opportunity for those who have earned a place at an institution of higher education but who might not otherwise be able to afford to attend. For many students, private loans are not a viable alternative as they are either too expensive or too risky to take on. “Student debt in this country is already reaching critical levels,” Kapturcontinued. “Nearly 20 percent of our nation’s $1.2 trillion outstanding debt is carried by borrowers who are 50 or older and more than a third by those 40 and older. Forcing the expiration of the Perkins loan option disrupts a mechanism that was working to relieve that pressure and create opportunity for working students to enter the middle class. Why throw sand in the gears for thousands of Ohio’s brightest, hardest-working students? Ask the one Tennessee Senator who is responsible for it.” Perkins Loans are popular among college and university administrations because they give institutions more flexibility in how funds are awarded than is typical for most other federal aid. Rep. Kaptur was one of 95 signatories on a September 2nd letter calling for the program to be renewed. Among other things, the letter points out the following: “These revolving funds are what make the Federal Perkins Loan Program self-sustaining, with student loan repayments paying for new loans. The continuation of the program would not cost the government any additional money but its elimination would cost participating colleges and universities millions.” Here is a breakdown of Perkins loan data from last year for institutions in Northern Ohio: PERKINS LOAN DATA: 2013-2014 AWARD YEAR School Recipients Disbursements Firelands Regional Medical Center 2 $ 4,000 International College of Broadcasting 8 $ 14,939 Lourdes University 15 $ 48,000 Cuyahoga Community College 40 $ 86,726 Notre Dame College of Ohio 47 $ 72,007 The Cleveland Institute of Art 70 $ 122,750 Ursuline College 72 $ 119,500 The Cleveland Institute of Music 112 $ 278,368 Ohio Technical College 203 $ 242,850 John Carroll University 304 $ 573,036 Oberlin College 358 $ 997,718 Baldwin Wallace University 411 $ 749,416 Cleveland State University 508 $ 2,509,665 University of Toledo 833 $ 2,007,999 Case Western Reserve University 1,528 $ 1,758,251 TOTAL in Lucas, Ottawa, Erie, Lorain, Cuyahoga Counties: 4,511 $ 9,581,225 OHIO TOTAL 25,472 $ 47,744,218 ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) is celebrating news today that The Economic Opportunity Planning Association of Greater Toledo, also known as Pathway, Inc., has been awarded $1,655,600 by the Department of Health and Human Services to support the organization’s Brothers United initiative. This initiative will use a community-based partnership approach to facilitate positive father-child and family relationships for 2,850 low-income fathers and young fathers. “For more than 50 years, Pathway, Inc., formerly the Economic Opportunity Planning Association of Greater Toledo, has helped low-income members of our community become more self-sufficient,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This award builds on a tradition of service by identifying a specific need in the community for services that support responsible fatherhood, and focusing resources on addressing that need. Thanks to this effort by Pathway and support from HHS, thousands of Toledo’s youngest citizens will grow up with a better chance at finding success and building healthy relationships for a lifetime.” Pathway CEO Cheryl Grice responded, "I was delighted to receive a call from Congresswoman Kaptur's office this afternoon informing me that Pathway was the recipient of HHS funding for our proposed Fatherhood Program. This grant will enable us to continue our efforts to reduce poverty and provide young fathers between the ages of 16 and 24 a pathway to self-sufficiency. We will be able to provide them a parenting "tool kit" that will help them become self-sufficient, effective, nurturing parents. I sincerely appreciate the support Pathway received from Congresswoman Kaptur and her staff. We are equally grateful to HHS for selecting us from among the many applications that were submitted nationally. This is indeed a day for thanksgiving and celebration." According to Pathway, the Brothers United Program was “designed to help fathers establish and strengthen relationships with their children, improve long term economic stability, and overcome obstacles and barriers that prohibit them from being the most effective and nurturing parents.” ###
10.01.2015	Reps. Kaptur, Dingell lead call for protection against non-TPP nation trade manipulation WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) led a bipartisan group of members of Congress to call on U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman to ensure that any Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement negotiated in Atlanta this week include strong automotive rules of origin. Signatories to the letter include Representatives Alan Grayson (D-FL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Gene Green (D-TX), André Carson (D-IN), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Donna Edwards (D-MD), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), John Conyers (D-MI), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX), Walter Jones (R-NC), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). Rules of origin limit the percentage of a product that can be made up of parts originating in non-TPP nations. Products that exceed the cap would not qualify for special market access provided under the TPP. Strong rules of origin prevent products, especially auto parts, mostly made in China and other non-TPP nations, from getting privileged access to the U.S. marketplace. The full letter is included below. A PDF can be found here. October 1, 2015 The Honorable Michael Froman United States Trade Representative The Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Froman, With Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) automotive issues still under negotiation, we strongly urge you to advance positions that will help the U.S. auto industry prosper now and in the future, including strong automotive sector rule of origin standards and a tariff phase-out period on Japanese cars, truck and parts. Such a policy is needed and puts the interests of working families in the United States ahead of any other we are deeply concerned that the current approach will mean that China, not the U.S., will be the primary beneficiary of the TPP auto deal. Any final agreement must recognize the current lopsided nature of our trading relationship and lay a strong foundation for further development in our domestic auto industry, especially with the possibility additional nations will join the deal in the future. The United States must not lower our tariffs until Japan legitimately opens its market to imports. And our domestic manufacturing jobs must not be used as a bargaining chip to finalize an agreement. The automotive industry in the United States is one of the largest globally and plays a critical role in our economy. Auto manufacturers, along with their suppliers and dealers across the country, help drive the U.S. economy and create or support skilled jobs in every congressional district. The industry supports 7.25 million U.S. jobs, including 1.55 million Americans employed directly by automakers. No other single industry is linked to so much U.S. manufacturing or generates so much retail business and employment. Given that it drives such a significant portion of the U.S. economy, it is imperative that the TPP closes loopholes in the auto rules of origin standard that allow too much content from countries that have not signed onto the obligations in the agreement, such as China. Japan has the most closed automobile market in the developed world. It utilizes components and parts produced in non-TPP countries and is known to practice currency manipulation and other dubious trade policies to unfairly increase their exports, as do other TPP nations. Their reported effort to set the baseline for rule of origin levels at 45% for autos and an even lower threshold for parts, with significant loopholes, will allow them to continue with an undisrupted supply chain that could have a disastrous impact on the U.S. supply chain and resulting loss of American jobs in the years ahead. As you know, prior to formally entering TPP negotiations in 2013, Japan publicly agreed to phase out U.S. tariffs on cars and trucks with the longest staging period of any product in agreement which will be back-loaded to the maximum extent. Any agreement with Japan must reflect that opening commitment. Further, this agreement must include the longest tariff phase out for cars, trucks, and auto parts, granting one but not the others are unacceptable. Auto suppliers alone produce hundreds of billions of goods and support more than three and a half million U.S. jobs directly and indirectly. As representatives of U.S. workers and manufacturing, our goal is to improve rule of origin standards beyond those set in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). More than 20 years of lost jobs under NAFTA reveals the need for a true 21st century agreement. We must do better under the TPP by increasing the rules of origin standards, not lowering them. Thank you for your consideration of our views as the TPP automotive negotiations persist. We welcome the opportunity to advance the U.S. auto and auto parts industry throughout global markets, while protecting millions of jobs, workers, communities, and investments here in America. ###
10.01.2015	Department of Energy award supports development of advanced prototype steam turbine and components WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, heralded groundbreaking news today that Energy Industries of Ohio will partner with the Department of Energy on a $74,995,687 project to support the design, procurement, construction, and testing of a prototype Advanced Ultra-SuperCritical Component (AUSC) steam turbine and related components. “This Department of Energy award builds on Northern Ohio’s already strong record of competitive sustainable energy development,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This cutting-edge project is a perfect fit for Northern Ohio. Our region has long been known for its energy production, and in recent years has asserted itself as a leader in a new energy future. This project builds on that base and supports a growing industry that is creating and supporting good high-tech manufacturing jobs and driving economic growth here. Congratulations to the team at Energy Industries of Ohio for their work, and to the Department of Energy for its prudent support of a critical new technology.” Bob Purgert, CEO for Energy Industries of Ohio, added: “After many years of development by the consortium led by EIO for new high temperature/pressure materials needed for Advanced UltraSuperCritical (AUSC) conditions, we have been notified by the U.S. Department of Energy that our proposed “last lap” activities for technology commercialization was selected for funding. This full scale test, with OCDO’s support, is planned to be conducted in Ohio. The project has been able to locate a suitable site at the former Ohio Edison plant which is now the Youngstown Thermal District heating site. We will be building additional infrastructure to accommodate the test and we plan to install the first AUSC turbine on site. This is very positive news not only for moving the technology forward but for sub-tier opportunities for Ohio’s manufacturing industries. The need for castings from Ohio’s foundries, forgings and fabrication of products along with job training for skills needed to weld and install the equipment will directly benefit Ohio workers. The timeliness of the test could not be more critical in view of the proposed Clean Power Plan.” In addition to the prototype AUSC steam turbine, Energy Industries of Ohio will also test components that deliver steam to the turbine. including a boiler, superheater, boiler tube membrane walls, steam desuperheater, steam headers, main steam piping, and main steam line valves. Energy Industries of Ohio describes is mission as “to develop, demonstrate, and incubate technologies that will improve the competitiveness of Ohio industry through increased energy efficiency, reduced operating costs and improved environmental performance.” ###
10.01.2015	Originally appeared in American Legion Magazine October 2015 Accounting for inflation, most U.S. workers haven't had a meaningful pay raise in decades. Millions lost jobs during the most recent recession, and many who were lucky enough to find replacement jobs are being paid much less than before. U.S. overtime rules have not kept pace, foricing more Americans to work longer hours for the same pay. Today, if you make more than $23,660 per year, you are not guaranteed overtime for any extra hours to work. Just 8 percent of full-time salaried workers currently receive overtime pay. For many salaried workers expected to work 50 or more hours a week, not receiving overtime pay means they are paid less than minimum wage. The arguments against fair pay are well-worn. On the eve of the passing of the historic Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, President Franklin D. Roosevelt cautioned the American people, "Do not let any calamity-howling executive with an income of $1,000 a day (tell you) that a wage of $11 a week is going to have a disasterous effect on all American industry." Today, that calamity howling is coming from representatives who are politically bought and paid for. And the pay disparity between the rich and poor is even wider. Unpaid overtime costs the government millions in additional assistance every year, effectively giving the largest corporations a federal bailout for underpaying their workers. President Obama's proposal would raise the salary for guaranteed overtime to $50,440 a year, extending ovetime pay guarantees to nearly 5 million more workers. This puts money in the hands of people who will spend it to feed their families, pay for goods and services, send kids to college and generate the activity that drives a healthy U.S. economy.
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Ohio’s Democratic Congressional Delegation urged Speaker John Boehner today to act on many of the outstanding issues that Congress still needs to pass, highlighting his unique opportunity to do so despite those in the Republican Caucus who choose to engage in obstructionism instead of governance. Full text of the letter is included below and a PDF can be found here. September 30, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner: As your fellow Ohioans, we want to express our appreciation for your years of service to our country and the State of Ohio. While we have not always agreed on the path forward for our nation, we respect your dedication to keep the government functioning during a time of great uncertainty. With the announcement of your resignation, you have been given a unique opportunity to act upon many of the outstanding issues that Congress needs to pass without regard to those in your Republican Caucus who choose instead to engage in obstructionism. We call on you—and stand ready to work with you—to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank.The Export-Import Bank plays a critical role in U.S. trade by allowing American companies to compete in foreign markets. It has supported 350 Ohio businesses and 1.3 million jobs nationally since 2007. Democrats will work with you to pass a long-term transportation and infrastructure funding bill.The current piecemeal approach to funding our transportation and infrastructure programs has cost America over 900,000 jobs – specifically more than 97,000 manufacturing jobs. America requires a robust and improved transportation system to help compete in this global economy. Sequestration took $284 million out of Ohio’s budget in 2013, negatively impacting local communities, Head Start programs, public health programs, and other important social services. If we do not remove these caps, funding cuts will be felt all throughout Ohio from feeding the underprivileged to research funding at Ohio’s public universities. We urge you to work with Democrats in Congress, Senate leadership and the Obama Administration to undo the harmful austerity imposed by sequestration. We also ask that you allow a vote to reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The LWCF fund is set to expire this week. This important fund has supported billions of dollars in revenue around the country and supports more than 6 million jobs – while working to preserve our state and nation’s natural resources. Lastly, we urge you to allow a vote on the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act. The GLRI Act provides authorization for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative—a results-driven program that strategically targets the biggest threats to the Great Lakes. We urge you to work with your fellow Republican and Democrat colleagues to move forward on these issues. We appreciate the time and effort you will give to this important request and look forward to working with you to pass and enact these imperative measures. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Marcy Kaptur Joyce Beatty Marcia Fudge Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) offered high praise and congratulations to Westerly Elementary School this morning following the announcement by U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan that the school has been recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School for 2015. Westerly Elementary is in the Bay Village City School District in Cuyahoga County. “Westerly Elementary has earned this national distinction thanks to the skill, effort, and teamwork of Northern Ohio’s best teachers, staff and administrators,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The Blue Ribbon designation is awarded only to those schools that have distinguished themselves at the national level for their elite ability to prepare students. Congratulations to all whose work contributed to this important achievement and the impact on student learning that it represents for our region.” "What an honor it is to be recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School," said Westerly Elementary Principal Josie Sanfilippo. "This award acknowledges and validates the daily hard work of our young students, the dedication of our staff, and the continuous support of our families and community members in our efforts to strive for—and attain—exemplary achievement. Congratulations Westerly!" The distinction of being named a National Blue Ribbon School is awarded to those schools that show overall academic excellence or progress in closing achievement gaps, based on state or national assessments. Westerly Elementary received high marks both in overall excellence and in student subgroup performance. 285 public and 50 private schools across the country have been selected for 2015. Principal Sanfilippo and veteran teacher Martha Fisher will attend a recognition ceremony in Washington D.C. to accept Westerly's award on November 9-10. They will be presented with an award plaque and a flag for the school to display. In 2010, Bay Village High School also met the criteria for a high performing public school. It was ranked among Ohio's highest performing schools in academic performance and graduation rates. Once a school is named a National Blue Ribbon School, it retains the honor permanently. "The entire Bay Village community can be proud that we now have two national Blue Ribbon Schools," said Clint Keener, superintendent of the Bay Village City School District. "Congratulations to the entire staff at Westerly school for continuing the tradition that has been built over the years and is seen every day in the wonderful spirit displayed by our students." ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement today following news that House Speaker John Boehner (OH-8) plans to resign from Congress: "This morning’s surprising announcement by Speaker John Boehner follows an emotionally charged day when he introduced Pope Francis to a Joint Session of Congress. The Speaker, a Roman Catholic, was overcome by tears many times during the Pope's address. ‎Obviously, personal and political matters were resting very heavily on the Speaker's shoulders. It is truly unfortunate‎ that the disarray on the Republican side of the aisle characterized by their inability to compromise among themselves, much less with Democrats, has led to this historic resignation at a time when America's unfinished 2016 Budget and Appropriation bills place America at the edge of another unnecessary and irresponsible, Republican-led government shutdown. The Speaker’s departure is a loss to the Buckeye State as the House is a place where seniority and the ability to balance competing and sometimes intractable demands matter. As dean of Ohio's "Buckeye" delegation, I‎ thank the Speaker for his dutiful and patriotic service to the people of the United States, and the House, for 25 years. May he and his family enjoy the time ahead as he returns to Ohio, relieved of the enormous pressures and vitriolic conflict to which his recent service, and our House, have been subjected. May the words of Pope Francis encouraging dialogue and not rigidity permeate our House in the days and months ahead. ‎Though liberty is not without conflict, it cannot survive without compromise." ###
09.23.2015	Competition Opens for All High School Students in Ohio’s 9th Congressional District WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) is announcing the launch of the first annual Marine Debris Challenge for high school students in Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District. This competition encourages students to develop first-hand experience with marine debris and use that experience to raise awareness in the community. Ohio’s Ninth District is the first in the nation to host this initiative. “Marine debris is a real and growing challenge here in Northern Ohio,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Public education is the first and most important step to address this emerging threat, and our students can be a great resource in this effort. That is why we created this brand new competition. Our hope is that it will motivate high school students across Northern Ohio to become teachers and leaders themselves, sharing knowledge, experience, and understanding in ways that help their communities become more responsible stewards of the precious freshwater resources and ecosystems we all depend on for our lives and livelihoods.” Nancy Wallace, NOAA Marine Debris Program Director, added, "The Great Lakes are an important part of our environment and not immune to the effects of marine debris. We are looking forward to working with our partners on this PSA contest to inspire young adults in Ohio to create their own prevention messaging and to be part of the global solution to marine debris." Dr. Kristin Stanford, Education and Outreach Manager at OSU Stone Laboratory, said, “ The topic of marine debris has been a major component in the outreach and education efforts for Ohio Sea Grant and Stone Lab this past year and we are very excited to be able to help co-sponsor this contest raising awareness on this important Lake Erie issue.” In 2011, Alliance for the Great Lakes gathered nearly 600 litter monitoring forms to track the marine debris in the region. Initial results showed 48 percent of land-based debris comes from food-related items such as food or beverage wrappers/containers, bags, plastic utensils, etc. The second largest category was smoking-related items including cigarette filters, lighters, cigar tips, and tobacco product packaging. NOAA recently awarded funding to the City of Cleveland specifically to respond to the three most common local sources of marine debris: plastic grocery bags, water bottles, and cigar tips. All students in grades 9 - 12who are enrolled in recognized public, private, and home schools in Ohio Congressional District 9 are eligible to participate. Students must work in groups of 3 to 30. The competition is administered through a partnership between Congresswoman Kaptur, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ohio Sea Grant College Program, and The Ohio State University Stone Laboratory. To learn more about the competition, including how to enter, visit https://marinedebris.noaa.gov/outreach/communicating-clean-future-ohio-congressional-district-9-marine-debris-challenge. ###
09.22.2015	LORAIN,OH (Sept. 22, 2015) – U.S Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator/Great Lakes National Program Manager Susan Hedman today announced a $15 million Great Lakes Restoration Initiative grant – the largest single GLRI grant awarded to date by EPA – to the city of Lorain for restoration work in the Black River Area of Concern on Lake Erie. The Black River AOC is on the binational list of toxic hotspots that have been targeted for cleanup under the U.S.-Canada Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur and Mayor Chase Ritenauer joined Hedman at Black River Landing to highlight the projects that will be funded by this GLRI grant. “This new Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will accelerate restoration work needed to protect Lake Erie and to clean up the Black River Area of Concern,” Hedman said. “This work will reduce threats to public health and restore native habitat along the Black River.” “This generous award will help Lorain and the surrounding communities write the final chapter of the Black River’s extraordinary recovery,” U.S. Rep. Kaptur said. “Lorain is working hard and taking great steps to renew its riverfront and lakefront as essential elements to build toward a vibrant future. Once successful, this transformative effort will prove that, through collaboration and stewardship, we can pull our precious freshwater resources back from the brink and restore them to health. The Black River is not only an important natural resource and fresh water habitat, it is also critical to the economic revitalization of the City of Lorain. This kind of ecological and economic transformation is something I have fought for over the course of many years. It is also central to the mission of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which I have long supported. Each piece of the ecological puzzle that we restore brings us that much closer to reestablishing the natural systems that have kept Northern Ohio’s water safe and her ecosystems healthy for millennia. Thank you to U.S. EPA Regional Administrator Susan Hedman, Cam Davis with the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the city of Lorain, and everyone involved for making this important announcement possible.” “In Ohio, we’ve seen the impact that threats to Lake Erie have on our economy, water supply, and wildlife populations,” U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown said. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is critical to our efforts to improve the health of our Great Lakes. This funding will allow Lorain to improve the quality of the Black River and protect Lake Erie.” “This is welcome news for the city of Lorain as it will support continued efforts to improve and protect the environmental integrity of the Black River while ensuring this area can remain a popular tourist attraction,” U.S. Sen. Rob Portman stated. “This is about the revitalization of downtown Lorain and ecological restoration and I am pleased with today’s announcement.” Over the next two years, the city of Lorain will remove 24 acres of contaminated sediment from the Black River floodplain and create in-stream habitat for native fish and other aquatic species. In addition, more than 500,000 cubic yards of steel mill byproducts will be removed from the river’s floodplain. Since 2010, GLRI funding totaling $23 million – including approximately $16 million from EPA – has been awarded for restoration projects in the Black River AOC. “The city of Lorain is thrilled to accept these funds to complete several projects critical to the restoration of water quality and biological integrity within the Black River,” Lorain Mayor Chase Ritenauer said. “We see the restoration and protection of our water resources as a critical mission and are pleased to be working cooperatively with several agencies to achieve this important goal. The City wishes to thank the U.S. EPA Region 5, Great Lakes National Program Office, the Ohio EPA, and the Black River Area of Concern Advisory Committee for their partnership and support, without which the development and implementation of these restoration initiatives would not be possible. We look forward to the successful completion of these projects and the many benefits that will be achieved.” “Today we can witness the importance of having an effective plan for Lorain’s waterfront and celebrate new GLRI funding to restore the Black River’s confluence with Lake Erie,” Ohio EPA Director Craig W. Butler said. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative was launched in 2010 to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. Since then, three U.S. Great Lakes Areas of Concern have been cleaned up and taken off the bi-national list of Areas of Concern: the Presque Isle Bay AOC (on Lake Erie in Pennsylvania), the Deer Lake AOC (on Lake Superior in Michigan) and the White Lake AOC (on Lake Michigan in Michigan). Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding has also been used to complete all necessary restoration actions at three additional Areas of Concern: the Waukegan Harbor AOC (on Lake Michigan in Illinois), the Sheboygan River AOC (on Lake Michigan in Wisconsin) and the Ashtabula River AOC (on Lake Erie in Ohio). Environmental monitoring is ongoing at those AOCs to assess their eligibility for delisting. GLRI funding is also being used to accelerate cleanup work in all remaining Areas of Concern on the U.S. side of the border. For more information about the GLRI, visit https://www.glri.us/. Release content provided courtesy of U.S. EPA
09.21.2015	By Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) and Jim Renacci (R-Ohio) September 21, 2015, 09:00 am - Originally published by The Hill Every student deserves access to a quality education. Regardless of political party or ideology, we can agree that education is an important foundation for opportunity and future success. As the new school year gets fully underway for nearly 50 million youth across the U.S., we hope their library cards are among the first items they grab in the morning when they leave for the day. September is National Library Card Sign-up Month, and we are urging families across Ohio and the nation to celebrate with a trip to the library. In our congressional districts, Cuyahoga County Public Library - in collaboration with Parma City School District and with the support of Mayor Timothy DeGeeter - is issuing library cards to the approximately 11,000 K-12 students in the district. Library cards help our students succeed. We have seen first-hand the impact libraries and librarians have on the lives of families in our districts: · More than 87 percent of K-2 students who participate in Cuyahoga County Public Library’s free, one-on-one reading tutoring program for at-risk kids report reading improvement after the program year. · Cuyahoga County Public Library’s Homework Center program serves nearly 2,000 students in grades K-8 annually, and 93 percent of participants’ parents/guardians report seeing improved grades as a result. Learning does not stop at the classroom door or at the end of the day when the school bell rings. Federal and state cooperation, parental involvement, and community engagement are all vital to the education of our youth, inside the classroom and beyond. Libraries across the nation recently wrapped up summer programs that keep kids engaged so they can return to school with stronger reading skills when the school year starts. A national research report found that students who participated in public library summer reading programs scored higher on reading achievement tests at the beginning of the next school year than those students who did not participate. Libraries also play an important role in the after-school hours, providing a safe physical space as well as a robust collection of digital resources available to students without home internet access. Libraries in our districts offer dedicated homework centers for students in K-8 get help with a range of school subjects, reading boot camps to boost skills for students struggling to keep pace, and even family literacy nights to support learning together. These increasingly technology-rich programs and services serve as a bridge to educational and economic opportunity for students of all incomes and backgrounds. This is why we believe communities throughout the country should create or strengthen partnerships with their libraries so that every child enrolled in school can receive a library card. During National Library Card Sign-up Month, we invite our colleagues to visit their local libraries, support important community connections between our schools and libraries, and encourage families to get an essential education and learning resource: a library card. Let’s leverage the power of our nation’s 16,536 public libraries and hundreds of thousands of librarians working in schools and public libraries to drive academic success. Kaptur has represented Ohio’s 9th Congressional District since 1983. She sits on the Appropriations Committee. Renacci has represented Ohio’s 16th Congressional District since 2011. He sits on the Ways and Means Committee.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Last night, National Farmers Union (NFU) President Roger Johnson presented the National Farmers Union Golden Triangle Award, the organization’s highest honor, to Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) in recognition of her successful effort to enable USDA to expand protections for meat and poultry farmers. “For decades, independent farmers in Ohio and throughout the country have suffered hardship and injustice at the hands of the powerful and heavily integrated corporate meat industry,” said Rep. Kaptur. “I have learned that the U.S. Department of Agriculture is ready to move forward with long-overdue protections for those farmers. I am humbled to receive this distinguished award from the National Farmers Union, whose work advocating on behalf of independent farmers could not be more critical. But even more importantly, I am gratified that this shared effort has brought us closer than ever to expanding critical protections for our nation’s meat and poultry farmers. Thank you to NFU President Roger Johnson, Ohio Farmer’s Union President Joe Logan, and the many farmers, ranchers, experts and advocates whose sacrifice, sweat and labor made all of this possible.” “Recipients of the Golden Triangle Award have been strong advocates for family farmers and ranchers, and support similar principles and policies as Farmers Union,” said NFU President Roger Johnson. “We are pleased to honor those who have proven to be true allies of our organization and our members across the country.” The Golden Triangle award was founded in 1988 and is presented annually to Members of Congress who have demonstrated leadership and who support policies that benefit America’s family farmers, ranchers, fishermen and rural communities. The award is based on NFU’s symbol: a triangle formed by the words “cooperation” “education” and “legislation.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement marking the start of Hispanic Heritage Month this week, which runs from September 15th to October 15th each year: “This week we celebrate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, an opportunity for all Americans to reflect on the important role Hispanic and Latino Americans have played throughout history in growing and strengthening American society, the richness of our culture, and the strength of our industries. Hispanic and Latino communities represent a bright thread in the fabric of America’s past and present, and are a growing part of our nation’s future. Northern Ohio is home to tens of thousands of Hispanic and Latino Americans, including large communities that trace their heritage to Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, and more. Together these groups make up more than 10 percent of the population of my district in Northern Ohio. Since the year 2000, Ohio’s combined Hispanic and Latino population has grown by more than 150,000. That growth has created opportunity and ensured the rich diversity of experience and culture that makes our region strong. For centuries, Hispanic and Latino Americans have made America a greater nation. The list of achievements from this diverse group will only continue to grow, ensuring that the United States of American has a bright future ahead. Please join me in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month and the many longstanding Hispanic and Latino communities that continue to thrive throughout our region.” ###
09.18.2015	Grants Announced for Health Organizations in Cleveland, Lorain, Toledo WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded news today that more than $1.8 million has been awarded to health care center programs in Cleveland, Lorain and Toledo, Ohio, by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to improve primary and preventive health care services to medically underserved populations in these cities. "Health care centers are an essential part of our communities,” said Rep. Kaptur. “They provide the everyday health services that help people avoid more serious and more costly conditions. America is a great nation but she is diminished when sick or injured citizens are forced to avoid the care they need to return to good health. I congratulate the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for its wisdom in actively supporting the health of our communities in Cleveland, Lorain and Toledo." Neighborhood Family Practice (NFP) in Cleveland has been awarded $1,000,000 through the Health Infrastructure Investment Program to support construction of a building to expand its current Puritas health center. When complete, the new location will allow NFP to serve more patients by adding additional staff as well as more exam rooms and behavioral health offices. “The HHS funds go hand in hand with what NFP has been doing for more than 30 years, which is providing quality primary health care services to those who need it most on Cleveland’s near west side,” said Jean Polster, President and CEO of NFP. NFP is also being awarded $276,976 through the Health Center Cluster grant initiative to expand nurse midwifery services. In 2014, NFP served 440 perinatal patients and more than 4,600 women age 18-44. “Women’s health services are a core component of NFPs services, and the expanded services award from HSS will accelerate our ability to implement a 2015 strategic plan to expand the midwifery program to provide more access and choice for women,” said Julie Kellon, CNM, MSN, and NFP certified nurse midwife. The Lorain County Health and Dentistry in Lorain has also been awarded $266,766 through the Health Center Cluster grant initiative, which will be used to hire additional staff, one of whom will be a certified nurse practitioner, to increase the number of patients that can be seen at this location. The goal is to have an increase of 1300 new patients by December 2017, according to Stephanie Wiersma, CEO of the Lorain County Health and Dentistry. Neighborhood Health Association, Inc. in Toledo has also received $263,540 through the Health Center Cluster grant initiative. In order to qualify as a health center, a facility must: serve a medically underserved population; provide appropriate and necessary services with fees adjusted on patients’ ability to pay; demonstrate sound clinical and financial management, and be governed by a board, most of whose members are being served by the health center. ###
09.18.2015	Federal HHS Grant Equips Rural Communities with Emergency Tools WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) welcomed news today that Erie County has been awarded $100,000through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Rural Access to Emergency Devices-Opioid Overdose Reversal Grant Program. This funding will assist trained licensed healthcare professionals at the Erie County Health Department in purchasing and disseminating naloxone and opioid overdose reversal devices that can rapidly reverse the effects of an overdose and reduce the overdose mortality rates in rural areas. “Addiction is a disease, and members of our community are suffering,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Those who are in the grip of addiction deserve the same access to care that is available to anyone else who gets sick in this country. Treatment is also the most efficient and cost-effective way to help families and communities respond to addiction. In rural areas, the greatest challenge is getting the appropriate medication to someone who has overdosed as fast as possible in an effort to save their lives. This award even takes treatment a step further by requiring Erie County’s healthcare professionals to refer these patients to substance abuse treatment centers where their care will be delivered by a team of providers.” “This grant funding will safe guard the residents and visitors to our community,” said Janet Mesenburg, R.N., Director of Nursing for the Erie County Health Department. “It increases the services available to fight the opioid epidemic, reversing the negative impact and consequences of addiction and is part of the continuum of care.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, people in rural communities face an increased risk of exposure and of overdosing on opioids. The Rural Opioid Overdoes Reversal (ROOR) Grant Program was developed to respond to the special needs of rural communities in addressing the threat of opioid and heroin overdose. ###
09.18.2015	Visit highlights N. Ohio energy leadership, job training, Germany’s refugee crisis WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) officially welcomed three Members of the German Bundestag, Germany’s Parliament, as well as a member of the EU Commission and others to Toledo this week. The delegation was in Toledo at Kaptur’s invitation to learn about new energy technologies being used or planned for various sites in the city including a new solar array and new water filter technology at the Toledo Zoo and Aquarium. The delegation included: Jens Zimmerman, Member of German Parliament, Lars Klingbeil, Member of German Parliament, Thomas Hitschler, Member of German Parliament, Eike Klapper, European Commission, Martin Knoell, University of Darmstadt, Michael Meier, Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Sebastian Ehreiser, Friedrich Ebert Foundation, and Alexander Kallweit, Friedrich Ebert Foundation. “I am pleased to welcome these distinguished members of Germany’s Bundestag to Northern Ohio and my own hometown of Toledo,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Their visit highlights our region’s leadership in the advancement and application of new energy technologies. This kind of project is vital to Germany, which is overly dependent today on imported energy from Russia and other nations that may not share her values or commitment to the principles of freedom. Germany, in turn, has much that we can learn from, as they have made pioneering investments in job creation and strengthening the German workforce, particularly in the energy sector. This visit is also fitting as Toledo’s German-American community is one of our region’s largest heritage groups with historic ties to the German homeland.” The group visited the aquarium at the Toledo Zoo in the morning, then gathered for a roundtable discussion titled “Coastal Ohio’s New Energy Dymanic” with local leaders and experts. They also toured the First Solar manufacturing facility in Perrysburg and the Hensville project and neighboring Warehouse District in downtown Toledo in the afternoon. Kaptur arranged for the group to meet with local organizations with firsthand knowledge of the refugee crisis impacting Germany. Syrian and Lebanese Christians and Muslims have a deeply respected heritage in Northern Ohio, having first settled here in the late 1800s. “For more than a century, Toledo has been home to a warm, industrious Syrian community whose deep roots have long nourished this city,” added Kaptur. “Today, millions of native Syrians are fleeing for their lives, with hundreds of thousands having found refuge in Germany. This flood of refugees is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis. Yet Persian Gulf nations of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates have done little to shelter even a few of those fleeing with their families. The United States must be a global leader on this issue and offer stronger support to both our European allies and the millions of refugees feeling for safety and security.” The parliamentarians met with Corine Dehabey, a Syrian refugee resettlement expert with US Together, a refugee resettlement agency and subcontractor of Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), which is contracted by the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ###
09.17.2015	Award supports installation of low-emission power generators at gates WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded news today that $1,125,000 has been awarded to Cleveland-Hopkins International Airportby the U.S. Department of Transportation for the installation of low-emission pre-conditioned air units and ground power units at four gates. “The Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport is a vital part of the foundation for investment and job growth in Northern Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “As Cleveland continues to expand as a resource attracting business and tourism in our region, managing the impact of increased air traffic is an increasing priority. This federal award will help pilots and airlines using the airport to reduce fuel consumption while planes are idling at their gates, improving efficiency, reducing costs, and protecting air quality throughout the surrounding area. Congratulations to the team at Cleveland-Hopkins and everyone involved in securing this important award.” Cleveland-Hopkins International is a public airport that maintains a combined 24,974feet of runway. ###
09.11.2015	Events highlight job growth, economic development, veterans services, harmful algal blooms, mental health legislation Toledo, OH – The August Congressional recess was a busy month for Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) with events celebrating the first F-750 rolling off the assembly line in Avon Lake joined by officials from Ford and UAW Local 2000, community conversations and town hall meetings across Northern Ohio, meetings with scientists and environmental activists on the health of Lake Erie, discussions on veterans issues with residents in Lorain, and Rep. Kaptur’s push for legislation to improve treatment for the mentally ill. Kaptur started the month of August by accompanying Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack as he visited community gardens maintained by refugees at Ohio City Farms. The Refugee Empowerment Agricultural Program (REAP), an initiative of the Refugee Response, operates the Ohio City Farm, the largest contiguous urban farm in the country. The following week, Congresswoman Kaptur joined UAW and Ford officials to celebrate the return of the Ford F-650 and F-750 to Avon Lake. The production of these two vehicles will maintain more than 1,500 jobs to the Lorain County community, a needed boost to the local economy. On August 24th, Congresswoman Kaptur continued a series of community conversations, this time in the Kamm’s Corners neighborhood of Cleveland. Local residents were able to ask questions in person regarding current events and upcoming legislation, learn about services available through Congresswoman Kaptur’s district offices, and also get updates on their requests for help with federal agencies. Earlier that day, Congresswoman Kaptur met with a group of veterans in Lorain to discuss the local VA clinic. Congresswoman Kaptur attended funeral services for her dear friend and former colleague retired Congressman Louis Stokes of Cleveland. Congressman Stokes was the first African-American member of Congress from Ohio and a mentor to Congresswoman Kaptur as she began her career in Congress. Later in the day, Kaptur joined political and business leaders in Toledo to celebrate the halfway point to the completion of Hensville. Hensville is an exciting project in the Warehouse District in Downtown Toledo that features new green space and two buildings that have been empty for years transformed into event spaces, a restaurant, and a rooftop baseball viewing area. On August 26th, Congresswoman Kaptur led a meeting between scientists, environmental activists, tourism professionals, and charter boat fishing operators to discuss the health of Lake Erie and the effect of harmful algal blooms on tourism and economic prosperity along the shore of Lake Erie. Later that week, Congresswoman Kaptur attended ceremonies in Toledo commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Rosary Cathedral in the Old West End neighborhood of Toledo. The next day Congresswoman Kaptur was in Vermilion to conduct another community conversation, this one with residents of Erie and Lorain counties. Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed September by hosting representatives from Argonne National Laboratory to talk with municipal officials about improving energy infrastructure to better supply local businesses and institutions. Among those representing the community were Toledo Mayor Paula Hicks-Hudson, Lucas County Commissioner Tina Wozniak, and Oregon City Manager Mike Beazley. Congresswoman Kaptur and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) joined together in a roundtable discussion with providers, hospitals, clinicians and advocates to discuss pending mental health legislation at the federal level. Kaptur described this as one of the most important events she participated in this year. Participants reviewed the legislation, discussed what is needed to help both people with mental illness and those who care for them, and offered ideas to improve the bill. She wrapped up the recess period with a walk in the Toledo Labor Day parade saluting the working men and women of Toledo and Northwest Ohio. The August recess was eventful and productive for Congresswoman Kaptur and the citizens of the 9th Congressional District. Thanks to all those who participated or hosted us for these important events. ###
09.11.2015	Grant to fund construction of needed 600 foot taxiway WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) heralded news today that $194,358 has been awarded to the Erie-Ottawa International Airport in Port Clinton, Ohio by the U.S. Department of Transportation for the construction of a 600 foot taxiway to provide access to aircraft hangers. “The Erie-Ottawa International Airport is an important resource for Ottawa County and the surrounding communities,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This federal investment will support airport upgrades that improve the facility for visitors to and residents of the area alike. The Erie-Ottawa International Airport is a crown jewel of Ottawa County and an economic driver for the region. I look forward to seeing the improvements, and their positive economic effects, firsthand.” Stan Gebhart, Director of the Erie-Ottawa International Airport added, “this money will go to further growth and facility expansion at our airport, one of the few airports in the region that could be self-sustaining. This new taxiway allows for more hangar space which brings more airplanes to the airport and allows more to be based here. That growth helps support the long-term viability of the airport. On behalf of the folks here at Erie-Ottawa International, the airport authority and the community, I would like to thank everyone involved in this grant award for their support.” Erie-Ottawa International Airport is 3.5 miles east of Port Clinton, OH, and brings passengers into the region for nearby fishing, golf, amusement parks, wineries and the Lake Erie islands. It is the largest airport between Cleveland and Toledo. Its 5,000 ft./ 4,000 ft. crossing runways can accommodate a wide range of aircraft from private planes to large business jets. ###
09.11.2015	Stresses U.S., Israeli, and global security WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced her support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, sometimes referred to as the Iran Deal, today. The full statement can be found here, with an abbreviated version included below. “The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, negotiated by the five permanent Members of the United Nations Security Council, led by the U.S. (Great Britain, Russia, France, China, plus Germany), secures a global plan of action to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons. ‎It positions the Middle East region and the world on a path toward greater security and peace, if the terms of the Agreement are implemented and verified effectively. Though there is no certain guarantee that the global community will be successful in this critical endeavor, this alone should not preclude the world community from a concerted effort to block Iran’s nuclear pathway. Today, Iran is within reach of a nuclear weapon with experts suggesting it could achieve a weapon in as little as three months. Under the Agreement, Iran would be required to disassemble its entire nuclear weapons program and relinquish its entire supply of highly-enriched nuclear materials. Iran would be allowed to maintain a strictly controlled and monitored supply of low-enrichment uranium for nuclear power and medical applications. Iran is a nation that has proven itself untrustworthy in prior nonproliferation accords. Thus, the unanimous commitment and cooperation of all permanent Member nations of the United Nations Security Council, as well as the unanimous 15-0 vote of the entire Assembly Council, holds the weighty prospect of a rollback of Iran's pathway to nuclear terror. All military, economic, and other punitive options available to the U.S. and Member nations will remain ready in the event the accord fails to achieve its primary, critical objective. Having read the document and annexes carefully, I can confirm that no part of the deal depends on trust. The International Atomic Energy Agency will enforce rigorous, continuous monitoring and oversight. This monitoring is comprehensive, covering every step of the production process from mining and milling, through conversion, enrichment, and manufacturing, activity at nuclear reactors, and finally the waste of spent fuel. This is critical as Iran has proven time and again to be untrustworthy and covert when it comes to nuclear disarmament. There is no economic relief for Iran in the deal until it takes verifiable steps to permanently disassemble its nuclear weapons platform. The terms include reducing its number of centrifuges from 19,000 to 5,060 and limiting low-level uranium enrichment to a single facility to be used for electricity production and medical applications. If at any time Iran violates these terms, the U.S. will have the support and cooperation of the entire international community to intervene as needed, with a snapback of sanctions and reserving the possibility of military force. International support is far from certain if the U.S. acts alone and rejects this deal. The level of access mandated under this Agreement is unprecedented. It includes 24/7 monitoring of Iran’s nuclear facilities, including Natanz, Fordow, and Arak. A related agreement reached between Iran and the IAEA known as the “Additional Protocol” ensures the IAEA can access any undeclared suspicious location, referred to as “anytime anywhere” inspections. If the IAEA inspectors identify any activity that causes concern, they will be granted access or Iran will be in violation of the Agreement. The world’s 20th century quest for diminishing petroleum reserves and the unjustified U.S. invasion of Iraq have yielded an entire region of our world in violent conflict and chaos. That region, which gave birth to the city-state and the earliest human settlements, is now dominated by regimes easily characterized as repressive and brutal, undemocratic and broken by poverty and chaos. Even now, the world witnesses hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing to escape the vortex to hell characterized by these same regimes. This deal offers a glimmer of peaceful progress for the region, for our dearest friend, Israel, and our Gulf allies. It highlights a path of possibility rather than one of foreboding, buoyed by rigorous and strict verification processes and the broad support of the global community. Iran holds effective reach over more than half of the world's remaining oil reserves, which will become more sought-after as the century progresses. Many experts argue that by 2050 the world will have reached the tipping point on diminishing oil supplies. Thus, peaceful development of those reserves could elevate the economic well being of that region and supply global demand;‎ but if misused, or if the Straits of Hormuz were to be blocked for political reasons to do damage to the world community, a nuclear Iran holds the potential to do great harm. Critics have suggested that the deal will enable Iran’s ballistic missile program. This is not accurate. Under the terms of the deal, sanctions on Iran’s ballistic missile program and its components will be maintained for at least eight years and the arms embargo for least five years or more. The U.S. will maintain its own strict sanctions and intelligence assets on both to counter Iran’s destabilizing actions in that region and allow sufficient time for us to evaluate Iran’s intent. U.S. military options always stand ready. Throughout these negotiations, protecting Israel’s fundamental right to exist as a sovereign nation has been a central concern. U.S. foreign assistance commitments to Israel must continue in addition to providing her with access to state of the art military munitions and defense assets, such as the Iron Dome system and F-35 fighter jets. Ultimately it is in Israel’s best interests for Iran to verifiably disarm its nuclear. That is why many prominent current and former Israeli security and intelligence officers, including the former heads of Mossad, Israel Defense Forces officers, and numerous credible U.S. and Israeli experts on the region, have expressed their support for the Agreement. As a Member of the Defense and Energy Subcommittees on the House Appropriations Committee, I have carefully analyzed the details of the JCPOA to ensure U.S. national security and that of our allies. I have had many detailed conversations with constituents, experts, diplomats, military and intelligence officers, and distinguished public servants who have dedicated their lives to the security of The United States, her allies, and the greater good of the global community. After weighing all options and alternatives, studying the international implications and exploring all foreseeable outcomes, I have determined that the Iran Nuclear Deal, negotiated and agreed to by the P5+1 nations, with unanimous support of the 15 members of the Security Council, is a course of action that could bring about a permanent end to Iran’s nuclear weapon ambitions. It is the only course that holds Iran accountable and maintains the threat of global sanctions, and does not preclude military action if Iran violates the agreement. As a result, I am giving the JCPOA my support. I must congratulate the President, his able Secretaries, and the signatory nations for their leadership pursuing an Agreement that holds the hope of sustaining life and creation, and advancing peace for all citizens of the region and our Mother Earth.” ###
09.11.2015	I support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, negotiated by the five permanent Members of the United Nations Security Council, led by the U.S. (Great Britain, Russia, France, China, plus Germany), which secures a global plan of action to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons. ‎It positions the Middle East region and the world on a path toward greater security and peace, if the terms of the Agreement are implemented and verified effectively.Though there is no certain guarantee that the global community will be successful in this critical endeavor, this alone should not preclude the world community from a concerted effort to block Iran’s pathway to nuclear capabilities. Disassembling Iran’s Nuclear Weapons Platform This Agreement prohibits Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. Step by careful step, it requires Iran to disassemble its existing nuclear weapons program. To ensure compliance, Iran will be subjected to rigorous monitoring and oversight by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), whose efforts will be supported by intelligence of partner nations. As part of the Agreement, Iran will be allowed to develop nuclear power for electricity and medical use. Nuclear electric power requires significantly lower enrichment levels than are required to develop nuclear weapons (90% enrichment). The Agreement reflects that difference, holding all uranium enrichment in Iran to 3.67%. The Agreement completely blocks plutonium enrichment, which is necessary for weapons development. Applying Global Sanctions This historic Agreement has resulted from stiff economic sanctions on Iran dating back to 2006, imposed through multiple U.N. resolutions. Those sanctions have seriously hampered Iran’s internal economic growth and developed an opening, leading Iran to seek relief now. The Agreement provides no sanctions relief until Iran has taken verifiable steps to permanently disarm its nuclear weapons program including dismantling its entire stockpile of highly enriched nuclear material. If Iran makes real progress in dismantling its path to a nuclear weapon, it will have the opportunity to gradually develop a more stable economy as certain economic sanctions are lifted. Again, this measure is contingent on rigorous and unprecedented inspection verification by the IAEA, which will receive considerable additional resources. Without this Agreement, there are no assurances that even U.S. allies would maintain sanctions. Many have already given up significant financial gain through this sanctions regime, which was put in place to secure a deal to prevent Iran from ever garnering a nuclear weapon. Dismantles Iran’s Nuclear Weapons Capability Iran will be required to take immediate steps to significantly reduce its nuclear capabilities including dismantling two-thirds of its installed centrifuges (dropping from over 19,000 to 5,060) and limiting low-level uranium enrichment for domestic power to a single facility. Iran will be required to reduce its stockpile of enriched uranium by 98 percent and will be limited to 300 kilograms of low-enriched material for at least the next 15 years. This will eliminate immediately Iran’s capability of producing even a single nuclear weapon, an urgent step as Iran currently possesses enough enriched uranium to produce about ten nuclear weapons. These conditions move Iran further away from nuclear weapon capability by extending Iran’s breakout time, which is currently only two to three months. Strict limitations on research and development will also be imposed further inhibiting weapons development. Secures Snapback of Sanctions for Violations Under the Agreement, there will be an automatic snapback of multilateral sanctions if Iran violates the deal at any time for the next decade. These snapback provisions are unprecedented. If Iran appears to even hesitate in its permanent turn away from nuclear weapons, the U.S. and other P5+1 nations determine the level of punitive action deemed necessary. As part of the Agreement, Russia and China will not be able to veto a snapback. During years 11 through 15, the P5+1 nations have also agreed that all will re-impose sanctions if Iran violates the terms of the agreement. This Agreement does not stop at year 15. Iran has committed that under no circumstances will it ever seek to develop or acquire any nuclear weapon with the text of the Agreement’s “Preamble and General Provisions.” If at any time Iran violates these terms, the U.S. will have the support and cooperation of the entire international community to intervene as needed. Without this Agreement, America cannot guarantee the world community’s support. Maintains a Strong U.S. Defense with Security for Israel and Gulf States The United States does not relinquish any enforcement options under this Agreement, including military options. We are the world’s preeminent military power, spending more on defense than the next seven countries combined. Meanwhile, Iran spends about two percent of the U.S.’s annual defense budget. The U.S. and Russia possess more than 90 percent of the global nuclear warhead inventories (16,000 in world total). The signatory nations, as well as the supporting nations, possess adept military superiority, along with very significant defense and intelligence capabilities. None of this is new to Iran. If Iran violates this agreement, the U.S. and its allies are committed to re-impose economic sanctions and maintain military options. That includes the full defense of Israel, as well as expansion of essential military assets, foreign assistance, and necessary equipment to assure her security. Throughout these negotiations, Israel’s protection and vital interests of adjoining Gulf States have been a central concern. A comprehensive inspection regime of Iran’s nuclear complex and the systematic elimination of Iran’s nuclear weapons program form the surest pathway to guarantee Israel’s and the Gulf States’ long term security. Israel does not stand alone. The U.S. will maintain extensive support through foreign assistance, military financing and munitions, and state of the art defense assets, such as the Iron Dome system and F-35 Fighter jets. Many prominent current and former Israeli security and intelligence officers, including the former heads of Mossad, Israel Defense Forces, and numerous credible U.S. and Israeli experts on the region recognize this truth and have expressed their support for the Agreement. Imposes Strict Inspections for Verification Iran’s record of adherence to prior non-proliferation goals shows that she cannot be trusted. That is why the Agreement’s primary aim–to stop Iran’s pathway to a nuclear weapon– is not predicated on trust. It requires stringent inspections to verify that Iran does not, and will not, pursue a nuclear weapon. This verification process includes U.S.-trained IAEA inspectors that will monitor Iran’s nuclear program at every stage, from mining and milling, through conversion, enrichment, and manufacturing, nuclear reactors sites, and finally the waste of spent fuel. Critics argue that 24/7 access everywhere is necessary to block Iran from reestablishing covert nuclear activity. This is simply not consistent with the science and practice of nuclear inspections. The level of access mandated under this Agreement is unprecedented. It includes 24/7 monitoring of Iran’s nuclear facilities, including Natanz, Fordow, and Arak. An agreement between Iran and the IAEA known as the “Additional Protocol” ensures the IAEA can access any undeclared suspicious location referred to as “anytime anywhere” inspections. If the IAEA inspectors identify any activity that causes concern, they will be granted access or Iran will be in violation of the Agreement. Any nuclear activity connected to nuclear nanoparticles (as small as 0.112) can be detected for very extended periods of time. Maintains U.S. Sanctions on Ballistic Missiles and Arms Embargo The U.N. sanctions on Iran’s ballistic missile program will be preserved for at least eight years, and the arms embargo for at least five years. The U.S. will maintain its own strict sanctions on both, including components, to counter Iran’s destabilizing actions in the region and allow sufficient time to evaluate Iran’s intent. None the less, concerns surrounding Iran’s increased ability to support terrorist activity as sanctions end are very real. America is in the best position to combat these threats with the Agreement because the international community will remain a collaborative partner. The same cannot be said if America acts alone or walks away from this Agreement. Offers a Sliver of Hope to a Violent Region The 20th century quest for the Middle East’s diminishing petroleum reserves, along with the unjustified U.S. invasion in Iraq, has yielded an entire region of our world in violent conflict. The Middle East gave birth to the city-state and the earliest human settlements. It is now dominated by oil rich, theocratic regimes easily characterized as repressive, brutal, and undemocratic, with legions of citizens broken by poverty and war. Even now, the world witnesses hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing to escape the vortex to hell characterized by the region’s continuing death, destruction, and chaos. This deal presents a sliver of hope for peaceful progress in the region, for our dearest friend, Israel, and our Gulf allies. It highlights a realizable path of possibility rather than one of foreboding, buoyed by rigorous and strict verification processes supported by the global community. Iran holds effective reach over more than half of the world's remaining oil reserves, which will become more sought-after as the century progresses. Many experts argue that by 2050 the world will have reached the tipping point on diminishing oil supplies. Thus, peaceful development of those reserves could elevate the economic well being of that region and supply global demand;‎ but if misused, or if the Straits of Hormuz were to be blocked for political reasons to do damage to the world community, a nuclear Iran holds the potential to do great harm. As a Member of the Defense and Energy Subcommittees on the House Appropriations Committee, I have carefully analyzed the details of the JCPOA to ensure U.S. national security and that of our allies. I have had many detailed conversations with constituents, experts, diplomats, military and intelligence officers, and distinguished public servants who have dedicated their lives to the security of America, her allies, and the greater good of the global community. After weighing all options and alternatives, studying the international implications and exploring all foreseeable outcomes, I have determined that the Iran Nuclear Deal, negotiated and agreed to by the P5+1 nations, is a course of action that could bring about a permanent end to Iran’s nuclear weapon ambitions. It is the only course that holds Iran accountable and maintains the threat of global sanctions, and does not preclude military action if Iran violates the Agreement.
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) issued the following statement after a major press conference yesterday in which she, Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH), national labor leaders, pension advocates, retirees and pension beneficiaries called on Congress to stop impending cuts to multiemployer pension plans. “Pensions are earned benefits just like a paycheck,” said Rep Kaptur. “These workers aren’t asking for a favor or a handout. They’ve put in long hours over the course of a lifetime and deserve the compensation they are owed. They certainly deserve better than to be abandoned after that lifetime of work to retire in poverty or be forced to depend on their families or the government for support. “For more than 40 years, earned pension benefits for current retirees have been protected under federal law,” Kapturadded. “But, at the end of last year, Congress passed a budget that stripped many of those protections and exposed retirees to cuts that take away more than half of their earned pensions. This is not only unfair to the workers that earned these benefits, it is also bad policy that will shift many retirees onto public assistance. It also sets a terrible precedent that exposes other retirement security efforts like Social Security to future cuts. We need a new approach, which is why Senator Sanders and I proposed our Keep Our Pension Promises legislation. This country should respect the value of work, and I am proud to be a soldier in that fight.” During the event, Senator Sanders spoke out about the importance of pension protections: “when someone works for their entire life and gives up wage increases or healthcare benefit increases in order to make sure he or she will have a decent pension, it is unacceptable to pull the rug out from under that worker. This is a commitment made, with sacrifices made by workers to guarantee that when they retire they will have decent pensions. We are here today to say that those promises have got to be kept!” Congressman Tim Ryannoted, “workers in this country are profit creators. Their work directly impacts any given company’s ability to make a profit. Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are delayed payment for work already done. Workers and employers reach an agreement to be paid a lower salary in order to receive their pension at a later date. And when these pension are cut or dissolved, it is a clear breach of contract and workers are being robbed. It’s that simple." Other speakers at the event included General President James P. Hoffa of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, General Vice President Jimmy Conigliaro of the International Association of Machinists, and Executive Vice President and Policy Director Karen Friedman of the Pension Rights Center. Several Ohio retirees also delivered statements during the event: Tim Smith, 68: “Thank you for letting me speak today. My name is Tim Smith, I’m a retired Teamster from Local 407 in Cleveland, Ohio. I proudly served my country in the U.S. Army. I worked 32 years on the truck docks at Yellow Freight to earn my pension. I’ve had numerous surgeries while working. I am 68 years old and unable to work as a result of all the surgeries I had. I rely on my pension to support myself, my wife, and my adult daughter who has health issues. If I were to lose any of my pension, I don’t know what I’ll do, what my family will do. My pension has kept us in the middle class. I don’t see how Congress passed a bill to cut the benefits of the most vulnerable. Please stop the clock on pension cuts, please pass KOPPA. Thank you.” Greg Smith, 66:“I’m speaking today for myself and on behalf of the Northeast Ohio Committee to Protect Pensions. We represent thousands of retired truck drivers and their spouses who will be devastated if cuts are allowed to go forward according to the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014. I am a 66-year-old retiree and a proud Air Force veteran who served my country during the Vietnam War. After returning home from military service, I worked for 41-½ years in the trucking industry. I worked for several different trucking companies during that time, and moved around the country to follow my work and to stay in my multiemployer pension plan. Thousands of others did the same thing during the 70s, 80s, and 90s as trucking deregulation put a lot of our employers out of business. “My pension check supports me, my wife, and my disabled son,” Smithcontinued.“If the Central States Teamster Pension Fund is allowed to cut my pension – and it could be as much as 60% -- what will happen to me and my family? I gave wages and vacation pay in exchange for a promise that I’d get a pension that could never ever be taken away from me. We all felt betrayed when Congress passed that law last year. We didn’t make the plan underfunded. We didn’t invest the money badly during the recession. Retirees are the most vulnerable and now we’re the ones that have to pay for mistakes made by the Fund. I have always done right by this country. And now I’m asking my country to do right by me. Protect our pensions. Pass KOPPA. Stop the clock on pension cuts.” During the event, Congresswoman Kaptur highlighted the growing number of sponsors for KOPPA legislation in the House of Representatives, which now number more than 20. Several of the co-sponsors issued statements following the event as well: “Thousands of retired workers in my district and across the nation count on the pension plans they have earned through a lifetime of hard work,”said Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY). “The Keep Our Pension Promises Act is about ensuring the promises we’ve made to these workers remain intact and are not subject to harmful, unnecessary cuts. Protecting retirees has always been a top priority for me, and I am proud to sponsor this legislation which accomplishes just that.” “I do not believe that cutting benefits to retirees is the moral thing to do – nor do I believe it is necessary,”said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). That’s why I’m proud to be a cosponsor of the Keep Our Pension Promises Act. The bill is a thoughtful approach – closing two tax loopholes that benefit the super-rich in order to fund pension protections for truck drivers, nurses, retail clerks, construction workers and other hardworking Americans.” Yesterday’s press conference coincided with a U.S. Treasury Department hearing on finalizing a rule that would open the door to pension cuts for current retirees, in accordance with legislation passed by Congress at the end of last year. The Treasury hearing started at 9:00am but, because of the long list of speakers testifying, was still taking place when the press conference began at 2:00pm. If the rule from Treasury is ultimately finalized, it would be the first time that pension retirement security has been compromised since President Ford signed the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) into law on Labor Day, 1974. ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement marking the 14th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: "Today, on the 14th anniversary of September 11, 2001, America remembers those precious lives who were lost, pays tribute to the heroes and heroines who gave life and limb to save others, and honors those who risk everything to protect the light of freedom from the tyranny of fear and violence. While the pain and horror of that day is emblazoned in the world’s conscience, let us also remember the strength and certainty the American people found within ourselves. Ours is one indivisible nation. No act of brutality could ever divide us. Our resolve that day, and endurance in the weeks and years that followed, gave proof of the American principle that the cause of justice must always win out over the drive to vengeance. Let us not forget those who survived that brutal attack but who continue to pay the price. I am humbled to join more than 100 of my colleagues in Congress to sponsor the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act that provides medical and financial support to 9/11 responders and survivors in every state. Today, let us honor those lost and hold fast to the promise we made 14 years ago that America will never ever forget.” ###
08.28.2015	Renews call for U.S. defensive and humanitarian aid to Ukraine WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) celebrated news that the government of Ukraine has reached an historic debt restructuring agreement, preventing the threat of default for a democratic nation currently defending its eastern border against Russian-backed separatists. “This landmark agreement reflects the strong consensus in the global community that Ukraine’s long-term prospects are bright,”said Rep. Kaptur. “However, the need for this kind of deal should remind the world that Ukraine remains under attack and deserves support. As the greatest beacon of freedom in the world, the United States has a responsibility and an interest in standing up for other free nations. Ukraine is our sister in liberty and it is in our interest to come to her aid now in a time of her great need. “I also add my fervent congratulations to the new generation of Ukrainian leaders who refuse to accept the‎ grim limitations of the past and are leading Ukraine into a new era of promise politically, economically, and socially. Ukraine's people deserve to be free and prosperous.” The deal, announced yesterday by Ukrainian finance minister Natalie Jaresko, includes a 20 percent write-down on approximately $18 billion of foreign debts in return for securities that reward investors with a percentage of Ukraine’s economic growth from 2021. Other debt payments will also be deferred for four years in exchange for a higher interest rate on some bonds. Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, heralded the news saying, “There was little hope that Ukraine would successfully conclude negotiations with our external creditors. The default so much expected by our enemies is not going to happen.” Natalie Jaresko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, observed, “The first half of 2015 has been challenging for Ukraine’s economy, and the Ukrainian people have paid a very heavy price. Today’s agreement will enable us to share this burden in a more equitable fashion with our international partners. Moreover, this deal achieves the objectives of the debt operation as agreed in the Extended Fund Facility program earlier on this year and is supported by the IMF. Throughout the negotiations, the Ukrainian government has demonstrated that it is acting in good faith and as a responsible partner. We made every effort to avoid a default – a rare successful case in the history of similar debt restructurings.” The United Kingdom Foreign and Commonwealth Office also issued the following statement about the deal:“We welcome the debt restructuring agreement announced yesterday between the Government of Ukraine and the creditor committee. The deal, together with the package of IMF-led international support, will help give the Government of Ukraine the space it needs to continue its wide-ranging and ambitious plans for reform. We fully support the efforts of the Government of Ukraine and urge all parties subject to this agreement to take all necessary steps to ensure its success.” ###
08.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) welcomed news that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has awarded the City of Cleveland $32,860 through its Marine Debris Program to reduce the amount of plastic garbage entering Lake Erie. The project will target three of the most common local sources of marine debris: plastic grocery bags, water bottles, and cigar tips. “Lake Erie is a vital resource for our region, supplying drinking water to millions of people and supporting billion-dollar commercial fishing and tourism industries here,”said Rep. Kaptur. “The environmental and economic health of our region depends on our stewardship of this precious freshwater resource. NOAA’s attention to the Great Lakes community of Cleveland supports our long-term efforts to keep the lake clean, beautiful, and bountiful. This will help ensure that Northern Ohio communities and local industries that depend on it are able to thrive, now and long into the future.” NOAA’s Marine Debris Program supports education and outreach initiatives that help reduce or prevent marine debris. The goal of the program is to encourage responsible stewardship behavior and to provide direct experience of the consequences of marine debris and the benefits of preventing it. ###
08.26.2015	DOT award supports worker training in public transit through GCRTA Career Pathways Program WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded news this week that the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) Career Pathways Program (CPP) has been awarded $407,780 through the Department of Transportation (DOT) Innovative Public Transportation Workforce Development Program Ladders of Opportunity Initiative. “Cleveland’s transit system needs highly skilled workers, and the CPP helps meet that demand,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Partnering with other organizations in our region helps to ensure that our education and training resources are being put to their most efficient use, training workers to fill jobs that are available and in demand here in Northern Ohio. And if Congress can pass the new surface transportation bill, instead of just another short-term delay, more good news would be forthcoming on jobs and investment in modernizing our transportation systems. “Technical skills training can also have a lasting positive impact on families and communities by offering students and workers the opportunity to transition into a full-time skill-based career. That can mean more than just a job, but also long-term financial and health security for working families. Thank you to the Department of Transportation for recognizing the importance of the work being done by the CPP, and congratulations to the Greater Cleveland RTA and its many partners for this well-deserved recognition and support.” The CPP program builds partnerships with educational and training organizations in the region to help fill demand for skilled transit workers. CPP will partner with El Barrio Workforce Development Center to recruit and train women, minorities and veterans. Cuyahoga Community College will offer accelerated training in electrical and mechanical programs. Cleveland State University will recruit graduate and undergraduate students for careers in transit. GCRTA will also provide internships and on-the-job training to some CPP participants. ###
08.25.2015	Grant will fund research into earth-abundant materials for solar power production WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) celebrated news today that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded $399,876 to The University of Toledo (UT) to support research into alternative earth-abundant materials that could be used in the production of photovoltaic cells that generate solar energy. “Northern Ohio is the birthplace of First Solar and many other renewable energy technologies and firms, and our region continues its path-breaking leadership‎ in solar energy development with this new award to UT,”said Rep. Kaptur. “These UT researchers are working to identify new materials that could make solar power cheaper and more sustainable. This effort has the potential to transform the future of energy production. I congratulate NSF for recognizing the importance of this work and the faculty and student researchers for earning this well-deserved award.” In 2014, renewable energy accounted for 13.1 percent of all U.S. domestic energy production. Solar energy generation is the nation’s fastest-growing renewable energy source, with net generation doubling from just over nine million megawatt hours in 2013 to 18.3 million megawatt hours in 2014. Ohio has been no exception, as the state’s solar energy production jumped 32 percent between May 2014 and May 2015. Dr. Yanfa Yan, Principal Investigator for the project, added,“Electricity is the fastest growing sector in the U.S. and electronic devices are everywhere. Finding new earth-abundant materials to use in future thin-film electronic devices will change how they are made and reduce how much they may cost. This will help enable the widespread use of solar cells as an abundant source of electricity for a sustainable energy economy for the future. We look forward to working with our collaborators on this ground-breaking effort.” Dr. William Messer, Vice President of Research at The University of Toledo,remarked,“Dr. Yan's research is focused on the development of thin film photovoltaics using abundant earth elements. The project builds on fundamental chemical studies using computer modeling approaches to rapidly design and fabricate solar cells. The University of Toledo has a strong track record in applied research with talented faculty addressing real world problems and providing students with advanced training opportunities in cutting edge fields.” Dr. Karen Bjorkman, Dean of the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, noted,“This is an excellent collaborative project that links the outstanding work being done on solar cells and renewable energy at the University of Toledo with key researchers at other institutions. Our faculty researchers and students will have the opportunity to identify new materials that can make renewable solar energy more efficient while at the same time enabling the production of solar cells from more easily available and cheaper alternative materials. The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is proud of the outstanding work being done by Prof. Yan and his collaborators, and our students will benefit greatly from being able to participate in important projects like this.” ###
08.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement at the opening of U.S. markets today after the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted more than 1,000 points yesterday morning and ended the day down 588 points. “The roller coaster world of global finance has created a world of distorted values,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Currency manipulation has exploded our trade deficits. Heavily leveraged assets and obscure derivative instruments have caused insecurity and volatility in the U.S. marketplace.As a result, today’s global marketplace does not accurately reflect the true worth of things in the U.S. economy. “Average depositors deserve to have their life savings protected from the distortions and derivatives of Wall Street investors, global money center banks, and securities dealers that play on the global field. For more than half a century, the Glass-Steagall Actstood as the firewall protecting the life savings of Main Street families from the financial games played on Wall Street. It’s time to put that firewall back.” Congresswoman Kaptur is the sponsor of H.R. 381, the Return to Prudent Banking Act of 2015, which would reinstate the regulatory barriers established by the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. That law restricted affiliations between traditional banks and investment firms due to the risks and dangers posed by the financial activities conducted by investment firms. Those restrictions were repealed under the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Biley Act. Rep. Kaptur’s bipartisan Glass-Steagall bill has 65 co-sponsors in the House of Representatives. It has been endorsed by the AFO-CIO, the International Federal of Professional and Technical Engineers, and the League of United Latin American Citizens. ###
08.19.2015	Statement from Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement today after receiving news that former Congressman Louis Stokes of Cleveland passed away late Tuesday night. "Our hearts are heavy but immensely grateful for the path-breaking life and legendary generous service of Congressman Louis Stokes. As the first African American Member of Congress elected to serve from Ohio, he wrote fresh history for America every day of his life. Rising from the public housing projects of Cleveland, he and his brother Carl became revered as they built a more inclusive and representative America. What courage and passion that required. His enlightened leadership moved America ‎forward socially, economically, and legally. In Congress, his gentlemanly demeanor and sharp intellect allowed him to chair, again as the first African American, the Appropriations subcommittee on Veterans, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies. He also chaired the House Select Committee on Assassinations and served on the House Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran. His agile legal mind was evident in the investigations he conducted. ‎The people of Cleveland and Ohio have been blessed through his life and hold abiding gratitude for his extraordinary life and generous spirit. As Dean of the Ohio delegation, I served with Congressman Stokes for a quarter century. I hold lasting memories of his deep love for his wife and family, his indefatigable and inspired ‎efforts to gain respect and equal justice in the law for all our citizens, his perseverance in building America's communities forward, his dedication to meeting our nation's obligations to veterans, to advance space science, and to catapult Cleveland's health and human services to the top rung of national assets. I shall sorely miss his dogged determination, easy smile, keen and measured counsel, and persevering nature. What a gifted leader has lived among us. May the angels carry him to a deserved peaceful rest close to the heart of God.‎" ###
08.14.2015	Calls for disciplined use of funds only “where science has directed” WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) heralded news today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will invest an additional $5,000,000 across Ohio, Michigan and Indiana to improve water quality in Lake Erie’s western basin. “Science tells us that if we want to stop Lake Erie’s harmful algal blooms, we need to drastically reduce the amount of harmful nutrients entering Lake Erie’s tributaries, especially dissolved phosphorous from animal livestock,” saidCongresswoman Kaptur. “Animals contribute about 13 times as much of the total waste in our country as humans do every year. The math is clear. Our efforts to expand monitoring in the surrounding watersheds are starting to give us the data we need to pinpoint the exact sources of these nutrients in our region, but much more analysis still needs to be done before we have a complete picture. This additional funding from NRCS could have a major positive impact for our work preventing future blooms. But the benefits will be muted unless the resources are used where science has directed that nutrient loading is at its worst. “Nowhere else in the country will you find a drainage system as concentrated as the one we have here. It acts like a superhighway feeder carrying nutrient runoff from fertilizers, manures, and leaking septic tanks directly into Lake Erie from Western Ohio, eastern Indiana, and lower Michigan. This drainage system pushes the natural slow leeching of ‎runoff to the lake. Our region must engineer systems to filter and slow down the harmful nutrients that feed algal blooms. Our lake is choking. We must learn to live in communion with nature, not subvert her. Science is our most important ‎ally in detecting harmful sources and eliminating them.” These funds are available through the 2014 Farm Bill and will be awarded through USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). They will be used to help farmers in the region reduce the amount of harmful nutrients entering Lake Erie’s tributaries through the use of cover crops, drainage water management systems, and nutrient management strategies. Farmers and ranchers typically contribute around half of the cost of implementingthese conservation practices. USDA Secretary Tom Vilsackremarked, “USDA is committed to helping farmers do their part to protect and improve water quality in Lake Erie, and this targeted funding will allow for solutions to be expanded and delivered more quickly. A problem as complex as this one will demand wide attention, from agriculture to municipalities, and we will continue to work with the Western Lake Erie Basin Partnership and other partners across the region to find common ground to address water quality issues in the basin.” Rep. Kaptur accompanied Secretary Vilsack last week visiting Ohio City Farm in Cleveland, OH. She serves as co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives. Earlier this year she co-hosted a briefing with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on the use of algal bloom tracking and forecasting data and has activelypursued improvements in federal responses to harmful algal blooms. She supported state and local efforts to reduce nutrient loads entering Lake Erie. She co-sponsored legislation directing EPA to appoint an algal bloom response coordinator for the Great Lakes, secured federal funding for improved conservation practices, and sponsored legislation to limit nutrient runoff into Lake Erie. Kaptur also praisedplanning for a $3.6 million algal bloom satellite early warning system using data from NASA, USGS, NOAA and the USEPA and successfully called on NASA to fund the project at the national level. That system is now used to provide NOAA’s harmful algal bloom bulletin every week. According to a recent presentation by top Lake Erie algal bloom experts, an estimated 80 percent of nutrient loading into Lake Erie during rainy years comes from nonpoint source agricultural runoff. ###
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) congratulated Firelands Regional Medical Center today after receiving news that its Counseling and Recovery Services department has been awarded $1,536,012 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The department provides primary care services to patients with severe and persistent mental illnesses. “Firelands Regional Medical Center has a long history of providing state-of-the-art medical care to communities in Northern Ohio,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This award builds on that tradition by expanding access to healthcare for those suffering from mental illness. This will have immeasurable benefits to many patients and the community at large. I congratulate the exceptional staff and leaders at Firelands for this well-deserved award and recognition from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.” “By integrating mental health and primary medical care services in the same location, we can better meet the needs of our patients,” explained Julie Herrig, LPCC director of the program. “It definitely improves the continuity of care.” Marsha Mruk, vice president of Firelands Counseling & Recovery Serviceswho is responsible for services in seven counties says “We are so grateful that our legislators and government fund care programs to provide integrated care to this population. This program gives these patients access to a primary care provider as part of a care team that addresses their primary care needs and closely coordinates services with their mental health practitioners. The program will address medical issues like high blood pressure, heart disease and diabetes, conditions that often go untreated. Each patient has a team of healthcare professionals that provide support in a variety of ways, from management of routine tasks of daily living to making nutritious food choices, cooking, exercise and budgeting.” The Firelands Counseling and Recovery Plus program was integrated into three sites in Erie, Sandusky and Huron counties, and has been serving more than 700 patients. The new grant award was made following the three-year success of the initial Plus program and seeks to serve more than 1,500 individuals annually, representing more than 50 percent of severely mentally ill individuals in the Firelands system. According to Firelands, the program’s results to date include a variety of health improvements including lowered blood sugars, reduced cholesterol, weight loss, smoking cessation, and a more active, healthy lifestyle. They have also seen a 29 percent decrease in the use of emergency facilities during the first year. In 2009, Firelands Regional Medical Center was listed as one of the 100 Best Places to Work in Healthcare. It has received numerous awards for the quality of its care in Northern Ohio. ###
08.13.2015	Urges federal funds to be directed where science shows most harmful nutrient runoff WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) celebrated news today that the Great Lakes Commission (GLC), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) have awarded a collection of Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) watershed grants that could help prevent future harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. The awards are part of the Great Lakes Sediment and Nutrient Reduction Program (GLSNRP). “These targeted projects show that good science can lead the way in our ongoing work to stop harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Especially in rainy years like we have seen this year, nonpoint source agricultural runoff is far and away the biggest source of the nutrients that cause Lake Erie’s harmful algal blooms. Projects like these are a useful model for approaching this situation in a focused way, using the best technologies and techniques available to reduce the amount of phosphorous entering Lake Erie tributaries. But much more also needs to be done on a much larger scale to stop these nutrients at the source.” For reference, the projects directly impacting Lake Erie are listed below followed by a description of each project. Sponsor State Title Amount Awarded Conservation Action Project OH Subsurface Soil Incorporation of Phosphorus Fertilizer $193,180 Seneca Soil & Water Conservation District OH Phosphorus Reductions in Wolf Creek $235,949 Wood Soil & Water Conservation District OH Reducing Agricultural Sources of Phosphorus in the Maumee Watershed $244,413 Putnam Soil & Water Conservation District OH Sediment and Phosphorus Reduction in the Miller City Cutoff $247,763 Blanchard River Watershed Partnership OH Sediment and Phosphorus Reduction in the Middle Riley Creek $29,930 Fulton Soil & Water Conservation District OH Tiffin River Sediment and Nutrient Reduction Initiative $29,500 The Nature Conservancy IN Removing Dissolved Phosphorus from Agricultural Drainage $170,856 Hillsdale Conservation District MI Phosphorus Reduction of the St. Joseph River/Lake Erie $113,126 Ohio Subsurface Soil Incorporation of Phosphorus Fertilizer Conservation Action Project $193,180 Due to the increase in Dissolved Reactive Phosphorus (DRP) entering the Lake Erie Western Basin, phosphorus fertilizer applications need to be incorporated into the soil to reduce the migration of DRP via surface runoff and subsurface drainage into Lake Erie. The ability to precisely place the phosphorus fertilizer in a band that does not affect the subsequent planting operation is a much better alternative than a broadcast application. The Subsurface Soil Incorporation of Phosphorus Fertilizer project will retrofit the available existing application equipment with newly developed incorporation components. Retrofitting existing equipment results in more pieces of equipment being able to cover more acres in a shorter period of time with a low disturbance phosphorus incorporation tool than trying to purchase new equipment. WS05-14-08 Personalized Phosphorous Reductions in Wolf Creek Seneca Soil & Water Conservation District $235,949 The Personalized Phosphorous Reductions in Wolf Creek project area is dominated by agricultural (row crop) land use, clay-based soils and extensive subsurface drainage systems. This combination leads to large nutrient and sediment loads into the Western Lake Erie Basin. To reduce nutrient loadings in this unique area, three conservation practices have been selected for the project. They are: Develop a Personalized Phosphorous Plans (Nutrient Management), Plant Cover Crops and a choice of one of 3 DRP Tests for Updating Personalized Phosphorous Plan including plant tissue test of a growing cover crop, soil test for soluble nutrients in a cover crop field or water runoff or subsurface drainage sample test from a cover crop field. The final non-traditional feature of this project, to ensure the long term improvements to Lake Erie, will be a required final project meeting. At the final meeting the participating farmers will debrief the project, share ideas, results, successes and failures and discuss current and future phosphorous management, as it applies to their local watershed and Lake Erie. Reducing Agricultural Sources of Phosphorous in the Maumee Wood Soil and Water Conservation District $244,413 The Reducing Agricultural Sources of Phosphorous in the Maumee project will install 4000 acres of single-species cover crops and 2500 acres of cover-crop mixes in the Lower Beaver Creek, Tontogany Creek, and Sugar Creek-Maumee River in the Western Lake Erie Basin. The project will reach two different types of producers; those who are new to cover crops, and those who have seen the benefits and want to take the next step towards improving their soil health. In addition, the project will financially assist the installation of 25 controlled drainage structures on existing tile systems, and five water quality inlets to replace risers. Also, as soil health is critical to reducing nutrients runoff, soil respiration tests will be conducted before and after practices are implemented. Sediment & Phosphorus Reduction in the Miller City Cutoff Putnam Soil and Water Conservation District $247,763 The Sediment & Phosphorus Reduction in the Miller City Cutoff project will implement cover crop and conservation tillage, precision nutrient management plan (PNMP), Grassed waterways andBlind Inlets in the Pike Run Creek and the Miller City Cutoff ditch. The Putnam SWCD, watershed coordinator, ODNR and NRCS will identify producers willing to accept assistance to install one or more of the three conservation practices. Once the producers have applied for assistance, their application will be graded and scored to select the practices to be installed in the most beneficial areas. The following criteria will be used: for cover crops and conservation tillage, fields located nearer waterways will receive a higher score and fields with higher erodible soils will receive a higher score. For the PNMP,soil tests will be assessed to make a final decision. For Blind Inlets, the more water able to infiltrate the higher the score. Sediment and Phosphorus Reduction in the Middle Riley Creek Blanchard River Watershed Partnership $29,930 The Sediment and Phosphorus Reduction in the Middle Riley Creek project is located in one of the five tributaries in the Riley Creek watershed. Agriculture is the largest land use in this project area. Farming practices have resulted in an estimated sediment loading of almost 3000 tons/year and particulate phosphorus loading of over 6,000 lbs/yr. This project will install 630 acres of conservation tillage and 630 acres of cover crops. Tiffin River Sediment & Nutrient Reduction Initiative (SNRI) Fulton SWCD $29,500 The Tiffin River Sediment & Nutrient Reduction Initiative (SNRI) Project will focus on implementing three conservation practices: Filter strips, cover crops, and erosion control structures on lands in the Flat Run and Bates Creeks. The project will target installation based on soil type by prioritizing implementation on two floodplain soil types and on two upland soil types. Landowners adjacent to the creek with Lenawee silty clay loam and Sloan silty clay loam soils will be notified and encouraged to implement filter strips and erosion control structures. In upland areas, landowners with Latty clay and Fulton silty clay loam will be targeted to implement cover crops. Indiana Removing Dissolved Phosphorus from Agricultural Drainage The Nature Conservancy $170,856 In Cessna Creek (Blanchard River watershed) and North Powell Creek (Auglaize River watershed), natural hydrology is highly impacted by ditch maintenance, with the majority of these two watersheds being channelized along roads and farm fields. This hydrologic alteration allows for the quick transport of phosphorus (P) from soils to surface waters and is one of the main causes of water quality degradation in the two watersheds. This project will construct three P removal structures using steel slag as phosphorus traps. Also, the project will demonstrate, during field events and with a video, how a P removal structure can be constructed on a subsurface tile drainage system. The award will also fund training of a local environmental contractor in design and construction of P removal structures. Michigan Phosphorus Reduction of the St. Joseph River/Lake Erie Watershed Hillsdale Conservation District $113,126 The St. Joseph River of the Maumee is one of the largest tributaries of Lake Erie. The Phosphorus Reduction of the St. Joseph River/Lake Erie Watershed project will implement the use of the 4R Nutrient Stewardship Program and install conservation practices including; cover crop seeding, hayland planting, strip cropping, filter strips and conservation tillage practices such as no-till, vertical-till, and strip-till. The Hillsdale Conservation District will establish criteria and a ranking system to target implementation based upon total phosphorus savings, soil savings, and lack of local Farm Bill Funds (i.e. Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP). ###
08.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) praised Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell for her visit to Rivergate Park in Cleveland today to announce new funding and celebrate 50 years of success of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Despite bipartisan support and a long record of successful environmental achievements, Congress has not passed legislation to sustain the program’s future operations. Rep. Kaptur is a co-sponsor of H.R. 1814, legislation that would permanently reauthorize the LWCF. Without Congressional action, the fund will expire in less than 50 days. “The LWCF plays an important role in supporting healthy communities and a healthy ecosystem in our region,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This initiative broke new ground for environmental stewardship fifty years ago. In that time it has permanently protected some five million acres of public land throughout the country. Today’s visit by the Secretary of the Interior to Rivergate Park in Cleveland shows the Department of the Interior’s continued commitment to Northern Ohio. As we continue to push for more responsible stewardship of our precious land and water resources, I want to thank Secretary Jewell and the many local, state, and national leaders and advocates who are the lifeblood of this effort.” Brian Zimmerman, Cleveland Metroparks Chief Executive Officer, added, "Cleveland Metroparks thanks U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur for recognizing the importance of the Cleveland Foundation Centennial Trail. Trails provide connectivity, promote health, wellness and economic growth for Cleveland's community. This 1.3 mile stretch of trail will ultimately connect residents to Cleveland's greatest natural asset, our lakefront." Polling on the LWCF shows that the fund enjoys widespread support among the American people. An estimated 72 percent of Americans support funding for the initiative even in the context of federal budget problems, and an even greater number agree that the fund should continue to be supplied with fees from offshore oil and gas drilling. ###
08.13.2015	Supports wildlife hazard assessment, replacement snow removal equipment WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) celebrated news today that Middle Bass Island Airport, managed by Put-in-Bay Township Port Authority, has been awarded $100,800 by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support safety measures and upgrades at the facility. The award allows the airport to acquire replacement snow removal equipment and conduct a wildlife hazard assessment. “Maintaining our region’s infrastructure is vital, especially at Put-in-Bay where tourism is a major part of the economy,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The measures supported by this award will help ensure that the Middle Bass Island Airport can deliver safe and reliable service to residents and visitors throughout the year. This is especially important in winter when the weather can be unpredictable, and Middle Bass Island sure has had enough experience with Old Man Winter and its snow, ice, and harsh winds. I am grateful to the FAA for supporting this important transportation resource.” The award will allow the airport to acquire a replacement snow removal carrier vehicle and plow, improving the airport’s ability to clear the airfield during inclement weather. It will also support a wildlife assessment that will identify and track numbers, locations, and movement of wildlife species on and around the airfield. Middle Bass Island Airport is a public airport that maintains 1,852 feet of runway. ###
08.13.2015	Lucas County Health, University of Toledo receive HHS grant awards WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) welcomed news today that the Toledo-Lucas County Health Department and The University of Toledo Department of Public Health and Preventative Medicine in the College of Medicine and Life Sciences have been awarded a combined $613,618 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “Access to health care is one of the fundamental pillars of a healthy community,” said Rep. Kaptur. “These worthwhile projects have significant local benefits, both for the health of our community and our economy. Basic health services canhelp working families avoid prolonged absences from work or school. Occupational health training at UT helps ensure that organizations in our region can find the skilled professionals they need. Congratulations to the health officials, educators, and students whose important work has earned them this well-deserved support.” Toledo-Lucas County Health is set to receive $541,667 through the HHS Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). This division of HHS focuses on improving access to health care services for the uninsured, isolated, or medically vulnerable. The University of Toledo will receive $71,951 to support the school’s Industrial Hygiene graduate program. The program, a Master of Science in Occupational Health, is focused on training students from Northwest Ohio and many of its graduates are employed as occupational health and safety specialists in the region. The program has graduated 25 industrial hygienists since 2009 and fills a critical gap in Northwest Ohio workforce needs. ###
08.10.2015	Project will restore 175 acres of coastal wetland in Sandusky Bay WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) is celebrating news today that the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) has awarded $5.7 million to be used for Great Lakes restoration through the Sustain Our Great Lakes program, including $950,000 to The Winous Point Marsh Conservancy to restore 175 acres of coastal wetland in Sandusky Bay. The Conservancy has also put forward $1,500,000 in matching funds to pay for the project. “This award is great news for Northern Ohio and the entire Great Lakes region, supporting the rebuilding of one of our critical coastal wetlands,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “These wetlands serve a vital role in the Great Lakes ecosystem, acting as natural filters to help restrain nutrients from leaching into Lake Erie. This is especially important with poorly managed animal manure threatening our lake from non point sources, thanks to the more than 10 million cows, hogs, chickens, and other farm animals that exist in Lake Erie's vast Western Basin watershed. Nationwide, these animal operations produce an estimated 13 times more manure than from human sources each year. We have a shared responsibility to address this urgentsituation, and this award shows how private and non-profit partnerships can do their part as stewards of Lake Erie, our most precious freshwater resource.” The Toledo Blade published anopinion over the weekend by Scott Edwards of Food and Water Watch that notes, “Factory-farmed livestock produced 369 million tons of manure in 2012 -- about 13 times as much as the sewage produced by the entire U.S. populationIn Ohio, the state’s 1.9 million hogs produce as much waste as 33 million people, or about three times the state’s human population. Ohio is second only to Iowa in its number of egg-laying hens on factory farms; the largest operations collectively have more than 24 million layers. St. Mary's River, which feeds into the upper Maumee River, runs through Mercer County. Egg factory farms in that county alone produce the sewage equivalent of 7.2 million people.” According to NFWF, “The wetland will provide additional habitat within an existing coastal wetland complex that is highly used by waterfowl, marshbirds, and shorebirds. This restoration will add wetland habitat to a region that has lost approximately 75% of its historic coastal wetland.” A second Ohio award recipient, The Cleveland Museum of Natural History, is set to receive $126,366 to support restoration and enhancement of 265 acres of emergent marsh and swamp forest habitat in Mentor Marsh, a National Natural Landmark. "The Sustain Our Great Lakes Program continues to be a model for successful collaboration across the public and private sectors where partners are working together – and working smarter – to achieve meaningful conservation for Great Lakes fish, wildlife and people,” said Charlie Wooley, Midwest Deputy Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “The Service is proud to support a new suite of on-the-ground investments that will result in real improvements to the health and ecological integrity of the Great Lakes." “ArcelorMittal is dedicated to the rehabilitation and enhancement of our shared environment and communities. The Great Lakes – home to more than 35 million people and biologically diverse ecosystems – are no exception,” said Bill Steers, General Manager, Communications and Corporate Responsibility at ArcelorMittal Americas. “We recognize the importance of industry and government working together to restore and protect vital natural resources on which our communities and our businesses depend. Together as partners, we are able to leverage our strengths to achieve what is best for our environment. That is why ArcelorMittal is honored to be a part of Sustain Our Great Lakes, which serves as a testament to the importance of collaboration and conservation, achieving results that have an immense ecological impact.” “Throughout the past 10 years, the Sustain Our Great Lakes program has made remarkable progress in its mission to sustain, restore, and protect the fish, wildlife, and habitat in the Great Lakes basin,” said Jeff Trandahl, executive director and CEO at NFWF. “The grants announced today will continue to support effective and exciting projects across the basin that generate important benefits for both wildlife and people.” ###
08.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) responded today to news that the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks taking place in Maui, HI have failed to reach an accord. “The recent breakdown in the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks confirms what we have known: there is no good deal to be had,” said Rep. Kaptur. “With every new trade deal we sign, our global trade deficit balloons and thousands of good jobs are shipped overseas. This deal would be no different. Throughout my years of service, Japan’s auto market has remained largely closed to imported autos and auto parts. Less than five percent of its domestic market is made up of non-Japanese vehicles, while more than half of our market is comprised of imports. It’s time to end the outsourcing of jobs and open closed markets to U.S. exports.” Automotive trade issues between the U.S. and with Japan have proven to be among the most intractable in the talks. The U.S. trade deficit with Japan is one of the largest in the world, reaching a cumulative total of nearly $2 trillion ($1,963,654,100,100) since 1983 through the first quarter of 2015. According to a recent study by the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Japan stands to gain the most overall, an estimated $119.4 billion or 2.2 percent of their national economy, if the TPP is enacted. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the U.S. trade deficit with Japan displaced 896,600 U.S. jobs in 2013 alone. Fifty two percent, or 466,000 of these jobs, were in manufacturing with 13.3 percent or 118,800 jobs just in motor vehicles and parts. Ohio was among the hardest hit states, losing 50,900 jobs due to the trade deficit with Japan that year. Ohio’s 9th Congressional district ranked #30 among all 436 U.S. Congressional districts with 3,400 net jobs displaced due to the 2013 U.S. trade deficit with Japan. ###
07.31.2015	GAO, GLRI reports detail project impacts in Great Lakes region; algal blooms up next WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) responded to two reports released this week showing results from the first five years of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The firstreport, from the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) following on its original report in 2013, showed that more than 98 percent of GLRI funding has been allocated to the agencies undertaking critical Great Lakes projects. Earlier this week GLRI published its Report to Congress and the President, 2010-2014 detailing the successes and impact the initiative has had over the past five years, including: - Five Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOCs) eligible or formally removed from AOC list. - More than 2,500 projects undertaken to improve water quality, clean and restore contaminated shoreline, protect and restore native habitat and species, and prevent and control invasive species in the Great Lakes; - More than 148,000 acres of wetlands, coastal, upland and island habitat protected, improved or restored. “These reports show the success and the increasing importance of GLRI restoration efforts as we respond to critical threats to one of the world’s most precious freshwater resources, the Great Lakes,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The results are in: the Initiative works, especially when its efforts are targeted.Our top priority now is to put a stop to the harmful algal blooms that threaten Lake Erie communities and the millions that depend on the Great Lakes for fresh water, tourism and economic opportunity.” Under the 1987 Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement, the United States and Canada designated 43 heavily contaminated sites around the Great Lakes as Areas of Concern. In the 25 years before the GLRI, only one Area of Concern was cleaned up and delisted. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is making the Great Lakes healthier and local economies stronger,” said EPA Administrator and Great Lakes Interagency Task Force Chair Gina McCarthy. “With continued commitment from GLRI partners, we will continue to improve the health of the Great Lakes ecosystem and the communities that depend on that ecosystem for generations to come.” GLRI projects are also coordinating with the agricultural community to reduce phosphorous runoff, one of the leading causes of Lake Erie’s harmful algal blooms (HABs), and working to prevent the introduction of new invasive species to the Great Lakes. Rep. Kapturadded: “With the proven success of GLRI in protecting and restoring this precious ecosystem, our next step must be stopping the harmful algal blooms that continue to threaten communities throughout the Great Lakes region. We brought in an additional $12 million through GLRI last year specifically focused on addressing nutrient management in our watershed. With active blooms appearing in Lake Erie this season, it is apparent that we need an even stronger funding commitment this year. “Our tri-state Western Lake Erie Basin watershed is the largest‎ in the Great Lakes. Healing Lake Erie will require healing the watershed by stopping the excessive, nutrient-rich runoff, especially phosphorus that courses through all of its tributaries. The volume of nutrients overloads the Lake's capacity to process it. To date, one year after the serious algal bloom of 2014, much more scientific dispatch is required to accurately trace, and arrest, the sources of this nutrient runoff so the Lake can achieve a healthy outcome. Until we find a way to significantly reduce the amount of phosphorous flowing into Lake Erie, the threat of blooms will remain.” Federal agencies used GLRI funding to increase the number of acres of farmland enrolled in agricultural conservation programs in these priority watersheds by more than 70 percent. In the summer of 2014, EPA also provided almost 12 million dollars through the Initiative to protect public health by targeting harmful algal blooms in Western Lake Erie. More information about the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and an interactive project map, visit www.glri.us. ###
07.29.2015	Ohio co-sponsors of the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 applaud new CMS guidance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) applaud new guidance from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for states to improve access to treatment for individuals suffering from substance abuse disorders (SUDs). The new rules allow states to design and test innovative mental health service delivery programs and apply for funding under Medicaid. “The heroin epidemic in the United States is growing. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), heroin-related deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013, with more than 8,200 people dying in 2013 alone. More than 980 of these were Ohio residents. As a nation, we should be doing everything we can to save American lives. While there is still much work to be done, I applaud the new guidance from CMS. Allowing states increased flexibility to test Medicaid coverage for substance use treatment is a giant step in the right direction,” said Rep. Fudge. “Addiction is a disease, and the people suffering from it deserve the same opportunities for care that are available to anyone else who gets sick in this country. Treatment is also the most efficient and cost-effective way to help families and communities respond to addiction, especially as rates of heroin and synthetic drug overdose, prescription drug abuse, and other forms of addiction continue to rise in our region and across the country. This announcement from CMS paves the way for Ohio and all states to address this growing public health concern,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Day in and day out, I hear tragic stories of families and communities broken apart by drug use and am left heartbroken every time. Unfortunately in Ohio, only 1 in 10 people in need of treatment have access to it. That is why I applaud this move to increase opportunities and develop innovative treatment solutions to begin to stem the tide of this growing epidemic we face in Ohio and all across the United States,” said Rep. Ryan. Representatives Fudge, Kaptur and Ryan introduced the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 earlier this year to give states the flexibility to use federal Medicaid matching funds for mental health treatment. Click hereto read the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015. Visit https://www.cms.gov/ to learn more about the new guidance and service delivery opportunities. ###
07.27.2015	Malaysia reclassified, now eligible for job-outsourcing Trans-Pacific Partnership WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur responded today to news that Malaysia has been reclassified in the U.S. State Department 2015 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report. This move paves the way for the country to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which could put its labor force into direct competition with American workers. “Putting a fig leaf over Malaysia’s human trafficking record and welcoming them into the job-outsourcing Trans-Pacific Partnership deal shows exactly what that deal is all about: cheap labor at any cost,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This is one of the darkest legacies of global trade: a seemingly endless race to the bottom that capitalizes on the sweat and labor of faceless workers whose suffering may be known only to God. Today’s reclassification shows that even the most basic tools for combating human trafficking can be pushed aside to keep that race running. “The fundamental moral problem with modern trade deals, from NAFTA to the TPP, is that they largely advantage transnational corporations first. Powerful firms outsource millions of U.S. middle class jobs to foreign production platforms, abandoning their U.S. workers and indenturing legions of helpless laborers abroad. This downward spiral of exploitation relegates America's avowed principles of democracy and human rights to the ash heap. “This exploitation—essentially degutting the value of work itself—is directed by the wealthiest and most powerful global interests: transnational corporations, their investors, and the banks and boards that operate them. Outsourcing for private gain to serve these few creates a fundamental conflict within our Republic between the economics that benefit the few and the politics of our democracy that should benefit all.” Today’s rating change for Malaysia has drawn criticism from other members of the House and Senate as well as leading human rights groups, as it comes just a few months after an amendment to the President’s “Fast Track” trade authority prohibiting any trade agreement with a nation classified as a Tier 3 violator on human trafficking. Malaysia had been classified as Tier 3, the category for the worst offenders. Earlier this year, Malaysian authorities announced that they had discovered 28 sites suspected to have been human trafficking camps, as well as more than 100 mass grave sites of dead migrants smuggled from Burma. One survivor recounted, “I was locked up in a cage like the goats and chickens, and all the time, I was surrounded by death. Each day, five or six of us would die, either from illness or were beaten up and shot." Earlier this month, 160 Members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry expressing concern over reports that the State Department was planning to upgrade Malaysia’s status in its TIP report. ###
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) issued the following statement today during Captive Nations Week, an official week designated by Presidential Proclamation marking America’s national recognition of the global struggle against captivity and oppression of people living under communist rule. “Our nation was built on the Constitutional principle of "We the People." We have fought time and again for this principle, even when it has threatened to tear our nation apart. That fight for liberty is one of the most fundamental that we undertake, yet many of our brothers and sisters around the world still suffer at the hands of oppressive governments. “Captive Nations Week calls us to celebrate the emergence of free nations from the shadows of tyranny, but it also reminds us that the forces of liberty are still locked in conflict with the forces of communist oppression around the world. Even in our modern era, the threat of violence and death is a constant for those opposition leaders who dare to speak out for liberty. The world’s brightest lights of dissent against oppression are still being snuffed out by powerful interests. It is imperative that we do all we can to support liberty and reform around the world, now and long into the future.” On July 17th, 1959, the U.S. Congress unanimously adopted a joint resolution (73 Stat. 212) authorizing the President to issue a proclamation designating the third week in July each year as “Captive Nations Week.” ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) received the Polish American Congress Medal of Freedom today, their highest recognition, for her work on behalf of Poland and the Polish-American community in the U.S. This year marks the group’s 70th anniversary. “Poland is a true and loyal friend to the United States,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Her soldiers have been at our side in Iraq and Afghanistan, and have died there for us. And our histories are intertwined: we might not even have a country if Poland’s generals, Tadeusz Ko?ciuszko and Casimir Pulaski, had not stood at our side during the American Revolution. I am honored and humbled to receive this important award from the Polish American Congress today and will continue working to strengthen our relationship with our great friends and allies, the people of Poland.” Congresswoman Kaptur is a co-sponsor of the JOLT Act (H.R. 1401), which would grant Poland access to the Department of Homeland Security’s Visa Waiver Program. Poland is a top 50 U.S. trading partner. 74 percent of Poles view the U.S. favorably, a one percent increase over 2014. ###
07.22.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) spoke on the House floor on Tuesday night to call attention to the historic career of former Representative Louis Stokes of Cleveland. “Tonight I rise as dean of the Ohio delegation to bring to my colleagues’ attention, and those who are listening, that one of our great members of Congress from Ohio, Congressman Lou Stokes, who served so ably, with such dignity, with such acumen, with such heart, has been diagnosed with a very serious type of cancer, and his days with us are numbered. “I know that many Members hold memories of Lou and there will be many tributes paid to Congressman Louis Stokes of Ohio. Without question, his service was legendary. Along with his brother who became the first African-American mayor in our country in the City of Cleveland. If we look coast to coast, the people of Ohio are walking in prayer with the Stokes family now. “And if Congressman Stokes is listening, I hope he knows that the love of this House, the place to which he dedicated the best years of his life, is with him. Thank you Congressman Louis Stokes of Ohio, for what you have done for America, for the people of Ohio and for the people of Cleveland. “History will record the greatness of your service to others. We love you, we pray with you, we walk with you.”
07.21.2015	Senior Airman Joseph Moreland recognized as Air Force Times Airman of the Year WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) escorted Toledo native Senior Airman Joseph Moreland this afternoon as he was awarded the 2015 Air Force Times Airman of the Year award. Military Times Service Member of the Year awards recognize “service members who demonstrate pride, dedication and courage beyond what is expected.” “My heartfelt congratulations to Senior Airman Moreland for earning this prestigious recognition,” said Rep. Kaptur. “His exemplary record shows a selfless dedication to service and a special ability to perform under pressure. These qualities make him a natural leader and have already made him indispensible to his fellow service members. Northern Ohio could not be happier or more proud of him for his exemplary service, highlighted today by this impressive national distinction.” Moreland was introduced at the award ceremony by General Larry O. Spencer, U.S. Air Force Vice Chief of Staff;Air Force Times News Editor Markie Harwood presented the award. According to Colonel Christopher Ireland, who commanded Moreland during his 2014 deployment in Afghanistan, “[Senior Airman] Moreland, while young, is a leader. Plain and simple… He embraced his combat role in Afghanistan, and we empowered him with responsibility and authority beyond his rank.” Ireland noted that Moreland was responsible for creating new tactical communications for the Special Operations Air Component to control air and ground assets. In addition, during his deployment, an Army Special Forces team’s fiber-optic line was destroyed, “essentially isolating them from the rest of the world.” Moreland was deployed and had their communications back up and running within 24 hours. Moreland is an active community servant and charitable fundraiser. While on base he piloted a reintegration initiative “Operation Homecoming” to speed up in-processing for returning deployed service members. Congresswoman Kaptur with Senior Airman Moreland and Family ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON– Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08), and Sandy Levin (MI-09), today released the following statement on the new developments of the investigation into flight MH17, which broke up while in the air over Ukraine last year: “We applaud investigators for their hard work. The report appears to conclude what we all suspected – that flight MH17 was shot down by a missile launched by Russian separatists in Ukraine. The findings make Russia’s denial even less credible especially as troops and weapons continue to build up at the border. We look forward to the release of the full report later this year so we can better understand the circumstances that caused 298 innocent civilians to lose their lives.”
07.15.2015	Receives perfect 100% rating for voting record‎ WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) was recognized with the Friend of the National Parks Award from the non-partisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). This award recognizes Congresswoman Kaptur’s consistent record of votes in support of America’s national parks during the 113th Congress. “Our national park lands are one of this nation’s most prized treasures, bringing visitors to our region and helping us reconnect with nature and with our nation’s proud history,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Let me thank the NPCA for this distinguished honor, as well as the park stewards whose daily effort keeps these sites beautiful, safe, and accessible for citizens today and for generations to come.” NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks Award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ voted on significant park issues. This year, NPCA tracked votes for five national park-related votes in the Houseand awarded Representatives who sided with the parks on at least on at least three scored votes. Kaptur maintained a perfect 100% voting record. “It’s an honor to recognize Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur for supporting our national parks on the floor of the House during the 113th Congress,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. As the 114th Congress works on policies and funding levels impacting our national parks, I look forward to working with Congresswoman Kaptur to ensure national parks have safe roadways, are well maintained, and have the resources they need to thrive for their upcoming centennial.” Congresswoman Kaptur recently spearheaded a successful community effort to maintain staffing levels at the only national park located entirely within Ohio’s 9th Congressional District, Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial at Put-in-Bay, Ohio. ###
07.15.2015	NEA awards bring arts into neighborhoods, promote creative economy in Northern Ohio WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) welcomed news that the Cleveland Public Theater and the Arts Commission of Greater Toledo will receive $150,000 and $50,000 grants, respectively, from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) to support initiatives that expand the arts in underserved neighborhoods. “An estimated 10,000 artists reside between Cleveland and Toledo; imagine what it could mean for our region to unleash the full economic power of this creative endowment along our coast,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The important work being done by the Greater Toledo Arts Commission and the Cleveland Public Theater has been transforming Northern Ohio communities for decades. How fortunate we are to have these local arts gems recognized nationally. This recognition from the NEA allows us to further move the power of the arts forward and continue to develop the creative economy of Northern Ohio.” Marc Folk, Executive Director, Arts Commission of Greater Toledo, said: “We are honored to be included in this year’s NEA Our Town Program. This funding supports the work outlined in the City of Toledo’s Strategic Plan for Arts and Cultural to engage residents in the neighborhood based creative placemaking. We are really excited to have an opportunity to empower artists in these neighborhoods to celebrate their unique identity through engaging and creative practices.” Raymond Bobgan, Executive Artistic Director, Cleveland Public Theater, said: “Cleveland Public Theater is thrilled to be awarded the NEA Our Town grant in support of Station Hope. This grant is a welcome recognition of the hard work of the Cleveland Public Theater artists and students, as well as the many partners who come together every year to make Station Hope an incredible time for reflection, healing and inspiration. Station Hope is a testament to the power of the arts to bring communities together to advance compassion and mindfulness.” The Our Town grant initiative supports “creative placemaking” projects meant to help transform communities into active, beautiful, and resilient places with the arts as a centerpiece. Creative placemaking is when artists, arts organizations, and community development practitioners actively integrate arts and culture into community revitalization work – placing arts at the table with land-use, transportation, economic development, education, housing, infrastructure, and public safety strategies. These awards support local efforts to enhance neighborhood quality of life and opportunity for residents, increase creative activity, and create a distinct sense of place. Congresswoman Kaptur has been a vigilant supporter of the arts, arguing recently that the arts should be added to the STEM curriculum to give STEAM to a well balanced education that encourages individual creativity. She leads the annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students in Ohio’s 9th Congressional District, helping students find ways to apply their creative skills in various industries and the job market. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the U.S. nuclear weapons program, issued the following statement in response to news that international negotiators from the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia, and China (P5+1) have reached a nuclear agreement with Iran: “President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and Secretary Moniz are to be duly acknowledged for their doggedness and precision in negotiating major breakthroughs with Iran for rigorous, enhanced international inspections in the name of global nuclear security. Our goal is, and must remain, a world safe from nuclear terror. Achieving that goal requires at a minimum either a peaceful end to Iran’s nuclear program or an expanded window for international intervention if Iran’s program fails to prove peaceful. This must be a deal that ends, not just delays, Iran’s nuclear enrichment. Iran must also discontinue efforts todestabilize the Middle East and stop support for terrorist organizations both regionally and globally. “This agreement strives to move Iran further away from developing a nuclear weapon. It could greatly reduce Iran’s stockpile and enrichment capability, and requires the conversion of the previously-secretive Fordo facility into a nuclear, physics and technology center. Even more importantly, this deal provides the continuous monitoring and oversight needed to verify Iran’s transition to a peaceful nuclear program. The world welcomes the opportunity to engage Iran with diplomacy, but our path forward must be marked by our vigilance and shaped by hard evidence.” Under the terms of the agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will Iran ever seek, develop, or acquire any nuclear weapons. Iran will keep its uranium stockpile under 300 kg of up to 3.67 percent enriched uranium for a 15 year period, a significant reduction from its current 10,000 kg stockpile of low-enriched uranium and its highest enrichment levels approaching 20 percent. Iran will also phase out a significant number of centrifuges and other aspects of its uranium enrichment infrastructure. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will be allowed to monitor implementation of these provisions and add several additional transparency measures. Rep. Kaptur is continuing to review the proposed agreement. She previously issued a statementsupporting a draft framework of the deal while cautioning that “our nation must be guided by President Ronald Reagan's admonishment: "Trust but Verify;" an even better saying for this deal would be "don't trust, verify." ###
07.09.2015	Heavy rainfall in June pulled agricultural runoff into Lake Erie; “severe” HAB season now expected WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to announced predictions from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and its research partners that the “2015 western Lake Erie harmful algal bloom season will be among the most severe in recent years and could become the second most severe behind the record-setting 2011 bloom”. Experts participating in NOAA’s presentation today agreed that approximately 80 percent of annual phosphorous runoff comes from agricultural sources. “After the heavy rainfall last month, expert predictions for this year’s harmful algal bloom season have gone from moderate to severe,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This rapid shift shows the need for a concerted strategy that allows us to adapt quickly. That means monitoring the flow of nutrients into Lake Erie in real time and tracing those nutrients back to their sources as early as possible in the nutrient loading season. “We have made real progress over the past year applying federal and local investments to establish new and improved tributary monitoring, bloom tracking, and water treatment. But until we get serious about identifying and intervening at the source, we will continue to see severe harmful algal blooms emerge in Lake Erie. “Today’s expert presentation confirmed what past scientific evidence has shown: agricultural operations are still spreading fertilizer and manure on fields in ways that do not allow it to be entirely absorbed into the soil, leaving the leftover nutrients to be quickly washed into our waterways when it rains. We need to identify and partner with these operations to adapt farming practices and land applications that are safer and more efficient. I also strongly support the scientific consensus that we need to achieve a 40 percent reduction in total phosphorous entering Lake Erie from all sources, including from Michigan, Indiana and Canada, since it is phosphorous that feeds the blooms. “I want to thank NOAA and all partners in this effort. Their work this year continues to give us the scientific evidence we need to make better choices and protect our most valuable natural resource, Lake Erie. It is my sincere hope that leaders across Ohio will act with dispatch and not kick the can down the road any further.” According to the information NOAA and its partners released today, the 2015 algal bloom season is predicted to measure 8.7 on the severity index with a range from 8.1 to potentially as high as 9.5. This suggests the 2015 season will be more severe than last year’s 6.5, and may equal or exceed 2013 levels, when Lake Erie saw the second worst bloom season on record. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) congratulated the members of the House Appropriations Committee for an historic vote to advance an agriculture funding bill that, if adopted into law, would allow the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to implement basic protections for America’s meat and poultry farmers. “For decades, America’s contract poultry farmers have suffered widespread abuse at the hands of the poultry industry,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This is a system that buries farmers in debt and then intimidates them with threats and financial punishment if they speak out or resist unfair contract terms. Today, for the first time in many years, there is a light at the end of the tunnel for these long-suffering farmers. Please allow me to thank the leaders and members of the Appropriations Committee for joining us in taking a major step toward real enforceable protections for our meat and poultry growers.” Congresswoman Chellie Pingree(D-ME), a farmer by trade and leader on this issue, and a member of the House Appropriations Agriculture subcommittee, said: “It’s crazy that we had to fight so long to guarantee poultry farmers their rights to speak freely, but I’m glad they are finally going to get those protections. There are few things more American than farming and free speech, and it’s high time that we made sure these farmers are able to fully enjoy these fundamental rights. Representative Kaptur was tireless in this fight. She and many others have earned this important win for America’s contract farmers." Today’s vote comes a day after the Washington Post published an opinion co-written by Rep. Kaptur and musician and Farm Aid president Willie Nelson calling for protections for contract poultry growers. Such protections were proposed by the USDA and were originally authorized as part of the 2008 Farm Bill. In 2010 the USDA announced a proposed rule to address abuses and correct certain market imbalances in the U.S. poultry industry, but almost all of the protections were blocked before they could be implemented. This is the first time the House Appropriations committee has approved a funding bill that would allow the USDA protections for contract growers to be implemented. ### For more information about Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur's work as a champion for America's meat and poultry farmers, click here
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) directed efforts in the House Appropriations committee today to improve federal readiness and support for states combating the spread of Avian Flu. Rep. Kaptur successfully added a provision as part of the full committee markup of the Agriculture and Rural Development Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2016 that directs the USDA Secretary “to provide, not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the bill… a report on the amount of emergency funds that are transferred from the [Credit Commodity Corporation] to poultry owners and contract growers, respectively, to address outbreaks of [Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza.]” This language would help ensure that independent poultry farmers receive appropriate financial support if they experiences losses related to the spread of Avian Flu. Rep. Kaptur also called on committee leaders to restore previous support levels for critical staff at Animal Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS). Budget cuts have led to the elimination of 225 veterinarians and other animal health staff that could have been deployed for testing and responding to animal diseases like Avian Influenza (AI). “These are [cuts to] the very services that are most necessary right now with this horrendous Avian Flu epidemic that is sweeping the country,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Ohio is one of the largest egg producing states in the country. [This outbreak] hasn’t hit us yet but it’s coming our way. We know the outbreak has affected more than 48 million birds… This is massive. In some states, they can’t even figure out how to eradicate that many birds, how to bury them, how to sweep the houses, how to clean the houses, and we really are short in this budget. I would ask that… [we] take a look at how we can restore these employees to their APHIS functions to help us deal with this plague of the Avian Flu.” APHIS deals with diagnosis of domestic and foreign animal diseases, support of disease control and eradication control programs, reagents for diagnostic testing and animal disease lab work. The USDA has already eradicated 7.5 million turkeys, three percent of U.S. annual production, and 42 million chicken and young hens, 10 percent of the entire U.S. egg-laying population, in an effort to contain this most recent outbreak. ###
07.07.2015	Language was Included in House Interior Appropriation Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), David Joyce (OH-14), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) are applauding the inclusion of language in the Department of Interior Appropriation bill to evaluate the need for a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator. Harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes affected over a half million Ohioans last year. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This language would encourage the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to evaluate whether the Great Lakes Federal Interagency Task Force should designate a coordinator to work with federal, state, tribal, and local governments. “I’m proud that we are one step closer towards having a much needed coordinator within the EPA to defend our fresh water from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “Our state’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s our duty as Ohioans to ensure Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to continue to thrive. We must do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state.” "This is a crucial step forward for the Great Lakes. As we get into the thick of summer it's timely that we are doing everything we can to ensure we protect and preserve this national treasure, a source of drinking water for 40 million people," said Rep. Joyce. “The recent heavy rainfall in Northern Ohio has raised the stakes even more on our efforts to monitor and track harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. This complex and multi-agency undertaking would benefit from the appointment of a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator. With our top experts reporting an increasing threat of algal blooms later this summer, the urgency and importance of this kind of coordination and accountability will only continue to grow,” saidRep. Kaptur. “We have made significant strides to improve the water quality of Lake Erie and the Great Lakes, but we must do more,” saidRep. Fudge. “Lake Erie is a lifeline for our state, supporting a multi-billion dollar economy and supplying drinking water for many. We must do all that we can to ensure Ohioans have safe, clean water and continued economic growth.” "Toxic algae season is upon us and it is more critical than ever that federal, state, local, international, and tribal entities work together to limit the amount of fertilizers, manure, and human sewage flowing into Lake Erie. A federal coordinator within the EPA would enhance and coordinate these efforts," said Kristy Meyer, Managing Director of Agricultural, Health & Clean Water Programs at the Ohio Environmental Council. "We need an organized approach to ensure no community ever again goes a day without water because of toxic algae." Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce, Marcy Kaptur and Marcia L. Fudge introduced similar legislation in April of 2015 to require the Administrator for the EPA to appoint a coordinator for issues relating to harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, and for other purposes (HR 1923). ###
07.07.2015	By Willie Nelson and Marcy Kaptur, July 7 - Originally published by The Washington Post Willie Nelson is a musician and the president of Farm Aid. Marcy Kaptur, a Democrat, represents Ohio in the House of Representatives. As Americans, we cherish our rights to speak freely, to assemble peacefully and to address our government representatives without fear of retaliation. But for tens of thousands of America’s poultry farmers, those rights are under siege by the poultry companies that control much of their lives. In May of 2010, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and then-U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder traveled to Alabama for a hearing examining abuses and anticompetitive practices in the poultry industry. Poultry farmers at this and similar events described a widespread culture of fear. Growers reported retaliation in the form of canceled contracts, substandard chicks and feed, unannounced audits, rigged prices and expensive upgrade requirements if they chose to speak publicly or to their congressional representatives, or to organize with fellow growers to defend their interests. How can this be? The story of the modern poultry industry is one of corporate consolidation, where companies such as Tyson, Perdue, Pilgrim’s Pride and Koch Foods exert almost complete control over farmers. In 1977, the top four U.S. poultry processing companies had a combined 17 percent market share. By 2012, that number was 57 percent. Many areas have only one processing facility where farmers can deliver their chickens, creating localized monopolies. This lack of competition means many growers have to accept whatever terms they are offered. Poultry processors can lure new growers to the industry with promises of a lucrative investment and an easy way to make a living. In these times of rural economic decline, it’s an offer many rural residents cannot refuse. But farmers cannot enter the poultry business without a contract. And to secure a contract requires an initial investment of hundreds of thousands of dollars at a minimum. Many farmers go as much as $1 million into debt to construct a vast complex of automated chicken houses that can each house tens of thousands of birds. The company may show its hand only after the grower is on the hook for these costs: a take-it-or-leave-it contract that imposes significant costs and risks on growers and limits their ability to contest the deal or negotiate a better one in the future. In such cases, everything is on the line for these growers; many have put up their homes and land as collateral on their loans. Such situations are not only exploited by the industry but also are part of its operating structure and can leave growers trapped in a cycle of debt and under the thumb of the poultry giants. The result? The Agriculture Department estimates that growers earn about 34 cents for every chicken they raise, while poultry processing companies take in about $3.23 for the same bird. Under such a consolidated system, when local farmers are trapped in debt and intimidated from speaking out, the rights of free speech and assembly seem distant. The good news is that we have laws on the books to protect these farmers. All we have to do is enforce them. In the 2008 farm bill, Congress directed the USDA to develop rules to protect farmers from retaliation and stop deceptive and anticompetitive practices by processors. The USDA did as directed, using findings from the aforementioned workshops to develop strong rules protecting poultry growers’ basic rights. One of these rules prohibits industry retaliation “in response to the lawful expression, spoken or written, association, or action of a poultry grower.” In other words, growers have the right to speak freely and peaceably assemble. Other provisions prohibit deceptive or anticompetitive practices. The powerful meat lobby has pressured Congress year after year to block funding to enforce these rules. Today, farmers remain vulnerable to industry retaliation, discrimination and deception. A funding bill that would allow the USDA to protect farmers from these unfair practices has started to move in Congress, but the same powerful interests that stopped it before will not be far behind. Members of Congress need to hear from their constituents on this issue immediately. The First Amendment guarantees that Congress shall make no law “abridging the freedom of speech, or . . . the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.” The United States was built on these freedoms and Congress has a responsibility to protect them. Yet America’s poultry growers are trapped in a system that punishes them for exercising these constitutional rights. As one family farm supporter and one member of Congress — and foremost as two concerned Americans — we humbly submit that this system needs to change.
07.02.2015	First segment of 11.6 mile multi-use trail officially open to public WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) spoke this morning at the ribbon cutting ceremony to open the first leg of the 11-mile Chessie Circle Recreation Trail for public use. She was joined by Toledo Mayor Paula Hicks-Hudson, Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments (TMACOG) Transportation Administration Specialist Christine Connell, members of Toledo City Council and other stakeholders. “This multi-use trail will connect the City of Toledo to some of our most important resources including the University of Toledo, Toledo-area metro parks and business districts and points throughout the city,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Connections like these help us build a stronger healthier Toledo community.” At the event, Toledo Mayor Paula Hicks-Hudson referred to Rep. Kaptur’s “dogged determination in making this recreation opportunity available to Toledoans.” The trail network is part of the City of Toledo’s path-breaking effort to improve bicycle and pedestrian connectivity between Toledo’s neighborhoods, parks, schools, public spaces, business districts and the University of Toledo. The Chessie Circle Trail will connect current and proposed multi-use trails in the City of Toledo as well as trails in neighboring communities in and around northern Wood County. Congresswoman Kaptur secured more than $5.5 million in federal funding through the 2005 highway bill to complete the purchase of the 11.6 mile CSX “Westside Corridor”, which has since become the Chessie Circle Trail. ###
07.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Kaptur offered her support following news that the United States and Cuba have agreed to reopen embassies in Havana and Washington, D.C.: “This decision is an important step in opening the relationship between our nations,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This historic agreement will move history forward in this new century, creating opportunity for millions of people in Cuba and throughout the U.S. “Our cultures are already intertwined. This agreement will make it easier for us to also share our greatest values and highest ideals with the people of Cuba. I continue to support efforts that grow the relationship between the U.S. and Cuba and look forward to the opportunities this new path forward will offer.” ###
07.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) voiced strong support today for a proposal from the Department of Labor (DOL) to extend overtime pay protections to 4,680,000 American workers, including 160,000 workers in Ohio. The DOL proposal would guarantee overtime pay to most salaried workers earning less than $50,440 per year. “Thousands of workers across Ohio put in extra hours on the job to support their families and deliver for their employers, but their wages don’t reflect that,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Rewarding productive hard work with better pay has been a driving force in the American economy for more than a century. This proposal by the Department of Labor would mean that a long day’s work finally earns a fair day’s pay for thousands of Ohioans and millions of Americans.” The U.S. salary threshold for overtime pay has been changed only twice in the last 40 years. Due to inflation, it covers fewer workers every year. Today, only workers making less than $23,660 per year for a 40 hour work week – a wage below the poverty line for a family of four – are guaranteed overtime pay. ###
07.01.2015	Congresswoman led successful federal and community effort to protect popular site WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) raised a victory flag today following news from the National Park Service (NPS) that Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial will maintain a full time superintendent, on-site support staff and remain an independent Park Service unit. The announcement comes as Put-in-Bay prepares for its annual Independence Day celebrations at the site. “Perry’s Memorial has proven its value as a premier federal landmark, bringing history to life for thousands of visitors year after year,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Today, just in time for Independence Day, we learned that one of Ohio’s most visited National Park sites and a growing attraction will no longer face consolidation and will remain independent. Please allow me to congratulate all of the citizen advocates who made this possible as well as the National Park Service for their wisdom and diligence in reaching this decision, which they came to by listening to the people they serve. This is great news for the surrounding community and for our region.” Earlier this year Rep. Kaptur learned of an internal review process at NPS that could have led to the elimination of a full-time supervisor at the site. Kaptur spearheaded a joint letter to the National Park Service (NPS) with other members of the Ohio Congressional delegation to oppose any consolidation at Perry’s Memorial. She also recently secured a commitment from Congressional leaders to work with her to maintain staffing and services at the site. Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is the second most visited NPS site in the State of Ohio, welcoming nearly 130,000 visitors each year and reaching more than twice as many individuals through education programs and community outreach. Perry’s Memorial hosts Independence Day celebrations each year with a magnificent Fourth of July Fireworks display as well as the annual Put-in-Bay Freedom Concert. ###
06.29.2015	Innovative extraction method sources chemicals from algae instead of from imported oils WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) welcomed news that The University of Toledo (UT) will receive $50,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support research into commercial development of an innovative method developed at UT to source certain chemicals from algae instead of getting them from imported vegetable oil or petroleum-based sources. The chemicals extracted from algae through this method, called lipids, could be used to create certain types of Nylon most commonly used in car components, sporting equipment, medical devices and solar panels. These chemicals can also be made into materials that have practical application as an ingredient in liquid laundry detergents, lubricants or as a “carrier” ingredient in medication. “This path-breaking research at The University of Toledo, one of Northern Ohio’s top graduate-level universities, has the potential to help our region invent the future and the new jobs that will come with it,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Extracting these commonly-used chemicals from locally-grown algae instead of from imported sources, especially foreign petroleum and palm oil, would be good for our economy and for the environment. Congratulations to the UT research team for this promising work. I look forward to learning more as this research progresses.” Replacing petroleum and vegetable oil imports could have important macro-economic benefits: creating jobs, supporting U.S. energy independence, and divesting from global producers known for their environmental and labor abuses. Kana Yamamoto, Ph.D., principal investor for the project, described some of the commercial goals of the research: “This grant will help us identify potential pathways to market. Ultimately we would like companies to license our technologies, and this award helps us find and develop the research directions best suited to achieving that goal.” William S. Messer, Jr., Ph.D., Vice President of Research, said: “The research builds on efforts to convert biological materials such as algae into useful chemical products — a form of green chemistry. The I-Corps program is designed to explore the potential economic impact of basic research findings, and this project will examine the application of readily available plant materials to the production of useful chemicals such as detergents. Beyond the scientific merit of the proposed studies, the work may spark the development of new technologies that could form the basis for spin-off companies from UT.” Steven E. LeBlanc, Ph.D., P.E., Interim Dean, College of Engineering, added: “This project is an excellent example of UT College of Engineering researchers applying their engineering expertise to develop sustainable processes for producing industrially significant chemicals. This project will help to commercialize those processes and reduce our dependence on imported chemical feedstocks.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) praised the Supreme Court this morning for upholding provisions of the Affordable Care Act that make health insurance affordable for all Americans. Her full statement: This morning the Supreme Court put the best interests of the American people ahead of partisan ideology and guaranteed that every American will continue to have access to affordable life-changing care. This is great news. A more inclusive health care system for all was our goal when we passed the Affordable Care Act. Since then more than 200,000 Ohioans and 16 million Americans have gained coverage through the exchanges. Our rate of uninsured Americans is now at its lowest level in history. The work of the Affordable Care Act could not be more important. I meet citizens every week who had no access to affordable health insurance before the ACA, and who are now covered. I met a 58 year old woman who works every day in a produce market. She is dealing with a very serious cancer and is fighting valiantly. She pays $148 per month for her insurance. She said to me, “Marcy, I have insurance now that I never could afford before. I can afford to pay for my doctors and my chemotherapy. To have this insurance at this point in my life is at true blessing.” The King v. Burwell decision this morning guarantees access to affordable health insurance for her and millions of Americans like her. I celebrate with them today. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, as of February 22, 2015, at least 10,496 people in Toledo and the surrounding area have signed up for health coverage on the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Marketplace. In the Cleveland-Elyria local area, at least 47,388 people enrolled in a health insurance plan. ###
06.25.2015	House Appropriations leaders agree: “Don’t Give up the Ship!” WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) spoke out on the House floor today against possible consolidation and staffing reductions at Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial at Put-In-Bay, Ohio. Earlier this year Rep. Kaptur learned of an internal review process taking place within NPS that could potentially lead to the elimination of a full-time supervisor at the site. Kaptur spearheaded a joint letter to the National Park Service (NPS) with other members of the Ohio Congressional delegation to oppose any consolidation at Perry’s Memorial. Rep. Kaptur’s floor statement: I appreciate the Chairman and Ranking Member for working with me to include important language relative to the National Park Service. Specifically, the report addresses a threat to a significant part of the history of the region I represent. The Battle of Lake Erie that paved the way for America’s expansion beyond 13 colonies, commemorated by Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial in Put-In-Bay, Ohio. Perry’s Memorial is at the heart of coastal tourism in Ohio, attracting 130,000 visitors just last year, and more than double as many people reached through educational activities Despite its popularity, this site has been unnecessarily targeted for consolidation. The idea that resources, and more importantly, management of this popular site would shift to a non-contiguous, smaller installation in a different state is both concerning and frankly quite puzzling. Reporting requirements included with the bill are there to ensure that Perry’s Memorial will continue operating as a stand-alone site. I would also ask the Chairman to continue working with me to address this need moving forward—to ensure that this misguided consolidation plan is stopped. In addition to her efforts to maintain staffing and service levels at Perry’s Memorial, Rep. Kaptur also helped secure federal support to repair the observation deck last year, ensuring the park would be fully accessible for Bicentennial commemoration events. The phrase “Don’t Give Up the Ship” was popularized when Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry won the Battle of Lake Erie decisively while flying a bright blue banner displaying the phrase. The victorious ship was the USS Lawrence named for Captain James Lawrence to whom the quote is attributed. “Don’t Give Up the Ship” was regarded as the unofficial motto of the U.S. Navy for many years. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— This afternoon Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) proposed an amendment that was accepted by the Republican majority on a bipartisan basis as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education Appropriations Bill. The amendment directs the HHS Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to report to Congress within 120 days of the bill’s enactment with an analysis of prescription drug price increases to “review how the Federal Government has achieved competitive cost reductions for drugs since 2001.” Once completed, the analysis will be used to identify possible cost savings available through the expansion of collective bidding and bulk price negotiation. Rep. Kaptur’s amendment was one of three proposed by Democrats and accepted by Republicans, out of a total of approximately 30 total amendments proposed by Democrats on the HouseAppropriations committee. “Prescription drug prices in the U.S. are out of control,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Again and again I hear from constituents telling me their medication has gone from affordable to unmanageable. One constituent reported insulin medication going from $20 to $247 in just one month. Another described a jump in monthly expenses for basic medication from $2 to $40 ‘too much money for us to afford’. In many cases these people depend on regular medication to stay healthy, and somehave no choice but to pay whatever cost. These sudden price jumps create real hardship for seniors, veterans, and our most vulnerable, while costing taxpayers, Medicare, Medicaid and the VA billions of dollars every year. “My amendment takes the first step to addressing these harmful price jumps. Only when we understand this problem will we be able to do something about it. We have a responsibility to ensure that every day Americans are charged a fair price for the medication they need to stay healthy.” Rep. Kaptur’s amendment focuses on price analysis for the 10 most frequently prescribed drugs and the 10 highest-cost drugs under Medicare parts B and D, Medicare, and the VA, and compares them to prices in Canada, Mexico, and other countries when appropriate. Important widely-prescribed drugs, including Humulin RU-500 to treat diabetes and EpiPen for allergic reactions, have increased in price by 200 to 300 percent from 2007 to 2014. According to the New York Times, “the prices of some generic drugs have soared more than 1,000 percent” in one year. Meanwhile pharmaceutical companies enjoy some of the widest profit margins of any industry in the world, comparable to banks and several times the profit margins of the world’s automakers. ###
06.24.2015	Prolonged rainfall has significantly increased nutrient load entering Lake Erie WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur expressed concern today following news that algal bloom severity projections for this year have been revised upward. The elevated threat is attributed to two weeks of heavy rain that have significantly increased the amount of phosphorous and other nutrients entering Lake Erie. “While early projections suggested Lake Erie algal blooms could be less of a threat this year, weeks of heavy rain have dampened those hopes,” said Rep. Kaptur. “These updated predictions make it more important than ever for federal, state, and local agencies to work together, using official recommendations and the latest research findings, to prepare for the coming algal bloom season. This also shows the importance of detailed monitoring of the rivers that feed Lake Erie to ensure researchers can track and understand the root cause of these harmful algal blooms. I continue to support efforts by state and local leaders to use the best available information to set responsible phosphorous limits without delay.” Rep. Kaptur recently co-hosted a briefing with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on the use of algal bloom tracking and forecasting data. She has actively pursued improvements in federal responses to harmful algal bloomsandsupported state and local efforts to reduce nutrient loads entering Lake Erie. She co-sponsored legislation directing EPA to appoint an algal bloom response coordinator for the Great Lakes, secured federal funding for improved conservation practices, and sponsored legislation to limit nutrient runoff into Lake Erie. Kaptur also praised plans for a $3.6 million algal bloom satellite early warning system using data from NASA, USGS, NOAA and the US EPA, and successfully called on NASA to fund the project at the national level. She currently serves as co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives. Harmful algal blooms cost the U.S. $64 million every year in the form of additional water treatment and the loss of recreational water usage and declining waterfront real estate values. ###
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) came down hard on the Senate today following a vote in the upper chamber to grant the President “fast track” trade promotion authority (TPA) to move forward with the top secret Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “The Senate voted today to double down on a trade policy that has consistently outsourced good jobs and failed millions of America’s working men and women, time after time and deal after deal, for decades,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Bad tradedeals like NAFTA have already shipped millions of good middle class jobs overseas and kept wages for working families flat or falling. And the powerful interests that made record profits on the backs of our workers under that deal have made sure that the same thing will happen again. “Today’s Senate vote paves the way for more of the same, selling out working families and kneecapping the industries that created America’s middle class. I could not be more disappointed to see history repeating itself at the expense of our working families and the U.S. economy.” TPA restricts Congress to a straight up or down vote within 60 days on any trade deal proposed by the Executive Branch, regardless of the length or complexity of the proposedagreement. It also blocks Congress from adding important provisions or removing dangerous ones through amendments and does not allow for hearings where Members could question experts about the most complex provisions. Since 1970, the U.S. has a cumulative trade deficit of more than $10 trillion ($10,079,379,000,000). According to Robert E. Scott of the Economic Policy Institute, “A billion dollars invested in manufacturing here in the United States could support 5,000 jobs, but a billion dollars of increased trade in the form of imported goods from Asia or anywhere else would kill jobs here.” The U.S. trade deficit for 2014 was $508 billion dollars ($508,324,000,000). As of this April, the deficit for 2015 had already reached $171 billion dollars ($171,139,000,000). ###
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) spoke out against the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) yesterday after a vote in the House of Representatives to approve “fast track” Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Under TPA, Congress would have no opportunity to amend any proposed trade deal, would not be allowed to hold hearings with trade experts, and would be limited to 60 days to vote up or down on massive complex agreements that, at least in the case of the TPP, are approaching 1,000 pages of highly technical language. “America’s middle class is shrinking,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Wages are flat or falling for working families, and imports into our country dwarf the exports going out. We have already given away one fifth of our economic productivity to bad trade deals. But instead of pushing through trade policies that could turn the tide for the 99 percent, the House voted to sell out working families and American industries that have been the backbone of the U.S. economy for decades.” The U.S. trade deficit for 2014 was $508 billion dollars ($508,324,000,000). As of this April, the deficit for 2015 had already reached $171 billion dollars ($171,139,000,000). Since 1970, our cumulative U.S. trade deficit is over $10 trillion ($10,079,379,000,000). According to Robert E. Scott of the Economic Policy Institute, “A billion dollars invested in manufacturing here in the United States could support 5,000 jobs, but a billion dollars of increased trade in the form of imported goods from Asia or anywhere else would kill jobs here.” Rep. Kaptur also spoke on the House floor before the vote. Her full statement: If the underlying TPP is such a good deal, why is the Rules Committee limiting our ability to read it fully and amend it? By voting for Trade Promotion Authority, we handcuff Members of Congress. We should vote no. We have a right to read it fully, and vet it fully. Let’s look at a history of these trade agreements. Over the last 25 years, every time we have signed a so-called free trade agreement that benefits the one percent, not the 99 percent, America has lost more jobs. Post-NAFTA, look what happened. We used to have trade balances with these countries. Today they’ve all gone into deficit which means they send us more goods than we are able to get into their markets. Here’s what happened after the WTO: we got into the China PNTR deal, then the Columbia deal, then with Korea. There hasn’t been a balanced trade account in this country for 30 years. 40 million lost jobs, 9.5 trillion dollars of trade deficit, trading away one fifth of our economic might to other places. And what did the American people get? Lost jobs, outsourced jobs, stagnant wages, average income in regions like mine are $7,000 less per year than 25 years ago. Not a good deal. You can’t create jobs in America and have free trade when you have closed markets abroad. Japan is closed. Korea is closed. China is closed. Europe limits 10 percent imports. We don’t. We have an open market. And you can’t create jobs and have free trade when you try to trade with countries where their people have no legal rights. This Congress should vote no on this Trans-Pacific Partnership, the underlying bill, and on Trade Promotion Authority because we have a right to read the agreement and openly debate it. Right now we have to go down to a secure room, we have people that monitor us, and we can’t even talk to the American people about what’s in it. What’s free about that? The Executive branch has totally overreached its power. Only five titles of the 29 in the TPP are actually about tariffs. This bill is a treaty! It should be considered as a treaty, openly read by the Senate, and it should be able to be amended and fully vetted. This is so important, when we have gone through a quarter century of job loss and income loss by the American people. Why can’t we produce a bill that benefits the 100 percent, not just the one percent that was able to pay for the plane tickets to go over to Asia and represent important trans-national interests? We can’t accept deals that just represent the interests of those companies. We have to represent the interests of the American people. Let’s balance these trade accounts and develop a new trade model, not a NAFTA-based trade model, but a model that produces jobs in America, good wages and balanced trade accounts for the first time in a quarter century. ###
06.19.2015	By Kaptur, Marcy, and Tom Schorgl on June 19, 2015 at 5:04 AM, updated June 19, 2015 at 11:50 AM - Originally published by The Plain Dealer You might not know it, but there are more than 10,000 artists between Cleveland and Toledo. Arts and culture are economic forces throughout Northern Ohio, creating and supporting many for-profit and nonprofit jobs here. Two recent studies by the Community Partnership for Arts and Culture show just how real that impact has been. Renewed investment in these areas would build on that strength. The Cleveland music sector accounts for more than 6,000 jobs in Cuyahoga County, with 55 percent of these jobs directly employed by the music sector and 25 percent employed in the supply-chain industries of the music sector. Another sector that combines visual arts, crafts and design (VACD) is also an important economic driver for the region. In 2013, the total economic impact of the VACD sector accounted for 17,844 jobs, 54 percent of which were people directly employed by the VACD sector and 25 percent of which were people employed in jobs in the supply-chain industries of the VACD sector. In short, music and the arts already play a vital role here and their potential for even faster growth is starting to show. Creative industries are not just a direct source of jobs either. For every 100 jobs created from new demand for the arts in the United States, 62 more jobs are also created in related industries. On May 6, the National Endowment for the Arts announced several national creative arts award winners who are working right here in Ohio's 9th Congressional District. The winners were recognized in the Art Works category — a category that exists to encourage direct contact between the public and community arts. These national awards help support an industry that contributes more than $698 billion to the U.S. economy every year. Art and design shape our public spaces and make them more beautiful. They encourage us to change our thinking and our actions, and forge new ways for us to connect with the world. Consider the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Free Stamp, the giant dandelion Rotaflora, the eerie yellow glow of The Verdant Walk, and more. Look around next time you take a stroll through the city and you will see what we mean. Industries in our district are taking notice. Many have forged public-private partnerships to support arts education and to integrate the arts into their work. Designers at Libbey Inc., a glassware company based in Toledo, review artwork submitted each year by high school students as part of the Congressional Art Competition. They look for the entry with the strongest graphic features. These visual elements are used to create a design that is then applied to a set of tumblers at Custom Deco of East Toledo. This unique award shows student artists and their families one example of how creative arts and design can drive Northern Ohio industries. Our educational priorities are shifting to meet new and growing demand for training in science, technology, engineering and math, sometimes called STEM. Educating students in these fields will help our region and our country remain globally competitive, but they alone will not be enough. The arts belong in this list, too. Design gives companies like Ford and Apple their most prominent competitive advantages. Science, engineering and creativity are the key ingredients for breakthrough innovation and our education. Let's add creativity and the arts to turn STEM into STEAM. If we neglect the intersections between technology and design, our best ideas will not reach their full potential. If we overlook the economic gains brought by our region's artists and creative industries, our region will not reach its full economic potential and our next generation will be less prepared to compete in the global marketplace. Arts and culture already are doing their part to support our economy and strengthen our community. Northern Ohio has a unique potential for developing a creative economy. Investing in public art and arts education, and creating new public-private partnerships that help capitalize on those investments, give us our best hope for sustained, long-term economic growth, job creation, new competitive industries, and a healthy and prosperous future for us all. Democratic U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur of Toledo represents the 9th Congressional District, which reaches along the Lake Erie shore from Northwest Ohio into Cleveland. Tom Schorgle is CEO of the Community Partnership for Arts and Culture, in Cuyahoga County.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) proposed an amendment yesterday that would block any action to close USPS facilities during FY2016 under the U.S. Postal Service Network Rationalization Consolidation Plan. Currently those closures are only suspended through Spring of 2016. Rep. Kaptur offered the amendment to be considered as part of the financial services appropriations bill for FY2016. Her full statement: There are few institutions mandated by our Constitution, but the USPS is one. It began modestly two centuries ago. As our nation grew in both geographic expanse and to a population of over 321 million, it has served every household, in every neighborhood, every town, every business, and every institution in our nation, without fail, 6 days a week, as neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays their couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds. Its carriers, over a third of whom are veterans, are a trustworthy and recognized presence on our streets, at our offices, and in the places we call home. They keep tabs on the elderly, and offer a friendly face to the meek and home-bound every day. Their services to our communities are more than just offering postal delivery. 40 percent of the world’s mail volume is handled by the Postal Service.USPS earns significant revenues annually, in 2014 alone, generating profits of $1.4 billion. During the last five years, revenues jumped from 34.7 billion up to $67.8 billion, doubling, while handling over 150 billion mail pieces a year—over 2,000% more than the total business for its competitors. Let me remind my colleagues that the USPS funds its services entirely by Postal ratepayers, not taxpayers. The only money this Congress provides is for reimbursement for services they assist us in fulfilling-- providing services to the blind and voter registration abroad. However, in recent years, the Executive Branch, the Congress, and the USPS Board of Governors have failed to execute their duties in a manner that respects the incredible effort the Postal Service puts forward every day but Sunday, to bind this nation together and serve its communication needs. Incredibly, the Postal Service has not had a full Board of Governors since 2011. Even more stunning, a majority of the presidentially appointed seats have been vacant since then, lacking even a quorum necessary to work. Some recent nominees to the Board have a record of hostility to the idea of a United States Postal Service and even made past statements calling for its privatization. Surely we must question any conflict of interest that would complicate their service. Most recently, these questionable appointments have remained stuck in a Senate drawer, long awaiting confirmation hearings, with no approval. This limping along at the highest level without firm governance is unsustainable. There should be little wonder why some call for closures. Let me just say Mr. Chairman, it was Congress that struck the critically harmful bell toll to the USPS in 2006. When, on December 8th – quite late in the session-- ramming through a bill that forced the USPS to prefund pension benefits 75 years in advance. A day later the bill was rammed through the Senate under unanimous consent. No record votes were taken, without any record in either chamber to hold Members accountable. This mandated the USPS pay for prefunding retiree health benefits for 75 years by payments into a fund at $5.4-5.8 billion each year from 2007-2016. This requirement remains unique only to the USPS. Who ever heard of such a steep slope of payment for any retirement plan? Now, due to ham-handed machinations, to meet the prefunding mandate, the USPS has already shut down 200 mail processing facilities through NO fault of its own. It is facing another 82 shutdowns on the chopping block. Each of these shutdowns makes the service less efficient The solution for fixing and saving the USPS is not consolidate or close processing facilities. The solution is to relieve the prefunding mandate and to appoint a capable board. The Executive Branch and the Congress have a responsibility to preserve the Postal Service. We must oppose moves that destroy this time-honored institution. A record of Rep. Kaptur’s past efforts to protect the U.S. Postal Service and the Toledo sorting facility slated for closure can be found here: https://1.usa.gov/1GtkF4r. Facts and figures about the U.S. Postal Service can be found here: https://1.usa.gov/1dKHgzy. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) announced legislation to be introduced in the House and Senate to restore pension guarantees for thousands of retired union workers, undoing pension cuts that were included in a spending bill during the 2014 lame-duck Congress. They were joined by union leaders, pension advocates and retirees as well as co-sponsors of the House bill Reps. Tim Ryan and Brendan Boyle. “Our pension system has allowed senior citizens to enjoy the fruits of years of hard work and receive the payouts they worked for a lifetime to earn,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “However, 1.5 million pension participants, including current retirees, are in multi-employer pension plans that are in danger of running out of money soon through no fault of their own.Our legislation will restore anti-cutback rules so that retirees are protected from having their earned benefits cut- restoring a 40 year principal that retirees pensions should never be on the chopping block-- while also providing relief for participating employers. I encourage my colleagues to support this measure and correct the misstep that was included in the last-minute Omnibus funding bill last year.” “Hard-working retirees should not ever have to doubt their retirement security,” Senator Sanders said. “We made a commitment 40 years ago to workers in this country that companies will never renege on a pension promise. We need to restore that commitment.” “Workers in this country are profit creators. Their work directly impacts any given company’s ability to earn a profit,” said Congressman Ryan. “Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are payment for work that was already done. Workers and employers reach an agreement to be paid a lower salary in order to receive their pension at a later date. And when these pensions are cut or dissolved, it is a clear breach of contract and workers are being robbed. It’s that simple.” “Pensions are promises to our workers that must not be broken; a critical source of retirement security for millions of Americans,” said Congressman Boyle. “Destructive measures undercutting multiemployer pension plans snuck into last year’s must-pass omnibus spending bill would, for the first time in over forty years, allow pension plans to arbitrarily cut the benefits they promised to retirees who spent years earning them. More than ten million Americans who rely on multiemployer pensions are now confronted with a less secure retirement. They could even risk slipping into poverty without the hard-earned pension income owed to them. This legislation will prevent that from happening. And, more broadly, it will shore up increasingly unstable pension plans and make sure an employer’s obligations to its workers are fulfilled.” The bill was introduced in the House with the following cosponsors: Tim Ryan (D-OH), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Janice Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Mike Honda (D-CA), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). For more than 40 years, U.S. law prevented ongoing pension plans from cutting retiree benefits unilaterally. Last year however the laws governing multiemployer pension plans were changed as part of the 1,600 page Omnibus spending bill Congress passed to avoid a government shutdown. As a result, workers that gave up raises and other benefits to get a pension are now vulnerable to losing as much as 60 percent of their hard-earned benefits. More than 10 million Americans currently rely on multiemployer pension plans. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) recognized the Members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture for their landmark vote for an appropriations bill that would allow the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to move forward with a proposed rule protecting the First Amendment rights of America’s chicken farmers. “Poultry farmers today suffer untold abuses at the hands of the contract poultry industry, abuses that are illegal and unconstitutional,” said Rep Kaptur. “Today’s subcommittee vote brings us a step closer to protecting the rights of these farmers to speak, assemble, and petition their government. I urge my colleagues to build on the subcommittee's leadership today in support of these basic rights.” Rep. Chellie Pingree(D-ME), said “The battle to protect the basic right for poultry farmers to speak freely had been going on for nearly two decades--and so far this is the closest we've come to winning they fight. And we wouldn't be this close if it weren't for the perseverance of congresswoman Kaptur, and of course the power of John Oliver." Rep. Pingree is a farmer by trade and has championed the rights of farmers since coming to Congress. She sits on the House Appropriations Agriculture subcommittee that approved the base bill today allowing for the enforcement of protections for the rights of chicken farmers. The 2008 Farm Bill directed USDA to develop protections for farmers that were facing industry abuses that seemed to be widespread. For two years, USDA interviewed farmers, processors, and other industry stakeholders about deceptive practices and retaliation taking place in the industry. Many growers made public statements that they had been intimidated or threatened by their processing companies for even participating in a public hearing. In 2010 USDA announced a proposed rule to address these abuses and correct certain market imbalances. One of these rules prohibits industry retaliation “in response to the lawful expression, spoken or written association, or action of a poultry grower.” However, due to funding restrictions targeted to the proposed rule, the law continues to go un-enforced and the First Amendment rights of farmers continue to go un-protected. Today the Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee voted to approve a bill that does not include those funding restrictions and allows USDA to move forward with its proposed rule. When USDA first announced its proposed rule, poultry growers earned an average of $0.34 per bird while their processing company made $3.23 for that same bird. Little has changed since then. ###
06.16.2015	Research-based estimates suggest lower algal bloom threat than in 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for a briefing on the use of algal bloom tracking and forecasting data yesterday. The briefing covered the latest harmful algal bloom (HAB) projection data as well as new tools and technology for tracking and reporting. “When you open the newspaper and watch the news you see information on allergens,” said Rep. Kaptur. “You look at how we report on future potential for tornadoes and hurricanes, and in some areas of the country, wildfire conditions. What do we do for algal blooms? [We need] a way of communicating [this information] that is spatial and gives the public a sense of what is happening, but also moves to water quality and how do we assemble that data. We know that science will lead the way.” Dr. Tim Davis, molecular ecologist at NOAA's Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory, outlined some of the tools being introduced to track harmful algal blooms this year. He highlighted a new technology called the Environmental Sample Processor that will be used to improve the tracking of the toxicity in the Lake Erie Western Basin. “[It’s] a lab in a can,” said Davis. “It will take a sample of water, it will concentrate it, it will extract it and it will analyze it and send the data back to it remotely.” Dr. Rick Stumpf, oceanographer at NOAA's National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science, presented findings that combine satellite data, environmental data and water data collected at field stations to analyze and forecast algal blooms for Lake Erie. NOAA uses scientific calculations to interpret this collection of information to quantify algal blooms. They also factor in wind and water data to track and predict the movement of algal blooms. Dr. Eric Anderson, physical oceanographer at NOAA's Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory, discussed improvements that NOAA is undertaking to allow for more frequent algal bloom forecasts and real-time tracking, as well as to improve the forecast accuracy and scale. “We approach this in two ways,” said Anderson. “The first is by improving NOAA’s marine forecast models for Lake Erie. This will make it possible to forecast movement of HABs on the scale of a football field level. The second step deals with modeling the algal bloom itself. The aim here is to improve our understanding of where the bloom is, where it is going to go over the next several hours, both horizontally and vertically, three dimensional bloom tracking.” The period from March 1st through July 31st is known as the loading season and is critical to determining the algal bloom threat for the year. According to NOAA’s June 15th Harmful Algal Bloom Bulletin, this year’s blooms are expected to be less severe in part due to relatively dry conditions to-date, which have led to less runoff and lower phosphorous loads into the western basin. Harmful algal blooms cost the U.S. $64 million every year in the form of additional water treatment and the loss of recreational water usage and declining waterfront real estate values. Audio of the briefing can be found here: https://1.usa.gov/1GbjMdx Slides used during the briefing can be found here: https://1.usa.gov/1TnV17W ###
06.12.2015	Failed TAA deal would have paved the way for Fast-Track, Top Secret TPP WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) cheered today as the House of Representatives voted 126 to 302 to defeat wolf in sheep’s clothing TAA legislation that would have paved the way for the House to consider granting the Executive branch sweeping Trade Promotion Authority, sometimes called Fast-Track. Because of a unique House procedure, both TAA and TPA would have been required to pass for either to go into effect, meaning that failure of the TAA provision represents defeat of the TPA bill. “Today’s vote is a resounding defeat for dangerous and irresponsible Fast-Track proposals, and opens the door for a new approach to U.S. trade,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The old model of NAFTA and the Korea-U.S. agreement have failed American workers for decades. Its effects have crippled our economy and outsourced millions of jobs from communities across Ohio and throughout the country. And every time it comes up for a vote, supporters ram it through Congress with the sweet promises of special interests and strong-arming by the Executive. “Congress has a responsibility to regulate trade with foreign nations; our Constitution could not be clearer about this. And the American people have made it clear that they do not support Fast Track. Today, for the first time in a long time on this issue, the House of Representatives did the people’s work. “Our cumulative trade deficit is over 10 trillion dollars today. That’s 10 thousand billion dollars not spent investing in U.S. manufacturing, not spent creating millions of good jobs, not spent training our workforce or growing our economy. Economic gains from trade have made the rich richer. That’s money that has never, and will never, trickle down to working families. “Stopping TPA in its tracks paves the way for a new model for U.S. trade that creates jobs instead of outsourcing them, that lifts wages instead of driving them down, that treats workers fairly, and that supports liberty and the rule of law around the world. U.S. trade policy should be a boon to workers, not something that puts millions out of work and leaves working families with an inadequate safety net in the form of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). I urge the President and Fast Track supporters in Congress to see this vote as an opportunity for real progress and a new approach to U.S. trade.” Recent polling shows 55% of Americans oppose granting Fast Track authority to the President. ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) today reiterated her support for broad-ranging efforts to reduce nutrient loading into Lake Erie. The Congresswoman applauded the Mayors of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative for acting this week to support recommendations for a 40 percent reduction in nutrient loading into Lake Erie from all sources including agriculture, cities, and industry in the effort to restore the health of Lake Erie. “Northern Ohio communities are better protected from harmful algal blooms today than they were a year ago, but until we cut down on nutrients flowing into the Great Lakes, algae will continue to flourish and the threat will remain,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Adding nutrient control to strategic planning, testing, and research, gives us our best chance to stop future algal blooms. I wholeheartedly endorse this call by my fellow stewards of our precious Great Lakes.” Great Lakes scientists and the U.S.-Canada International Joint Commission have said a 40 percent reduction in nutrients is the minimum necessary to address the threat of harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. ###
06.09.2015	Ukrainian pilot and Member of Parliament illegally held by Russian authorities since July 2014 in violation of the Minsk Agreement WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), a member of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, was joined by Caucus Co-chairs Sander Levin (D-MI), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) in urging the co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission to support the release of detained Ukrainian pilot and Member of Parliament Nadiya Savchenko. “Since her capture and detention in July 2014, we have been concerned about her deteriorating condition,” the lawmakers wrote in reference to Savchenko. “Savchenko has been subjected to psychiatric evaluations, solitary confinement, and callous treatment by Russian authorities. She also did not receive adequate medical care, especially since her commencement of hunger strikes to protest the terms of her detention. We urge the Commission to support Nadiya Savchenko’s release and facilitate passage of H.RES. 50.” Nadiya Savchenko is a female fighter pilot for the Ukraine’s Armed Forces. During her mission in Eastern Ukraine, Savchenko was captured by rebel forces, and illegally transferred to the Russian Federation to stand trial on unsubstantiated charges of complicity to murder. While in detention, Russian courts have repeatedly delayed her hearing dates for apparently politically motivated reasons. Most recently, a Moscow court again extended her pretrial detention to June 30. In January, Rep. Levin was joined by Reps. Pascrell, Fitzpatrick and Kaptur in introducing H. RES. 50, which calls for Savchenko’s release. The companion Senate resolution, H.RES. 52, passed by unanimous consent on February 12, 2015. The full text of the letter follows: June 8, 2015 Dear Mr. McGovern and Mr. Pitts: We write to ask for your support on half of detained Ukrainian pilot and Member of Parliament Nadiya Savchenko, who has been illegally held by Russian authorities since July 2014 in violation of the Minsk Agreement. Nadiya Savchenko is a female fighter pilot for the Ukraine’s Armed Forces. During her mission in Eastern Ukraine, Savchenko was captured by rebel forces, and illegally transferred to the Russian Federation to stand trial on unsubstantiated charges of complicity to murder. While in detention, Russian courts have repeatedly delayed her hearing dates for apparently politically motivated reasons. Most recently, a Moscow court again extended her pretrial detention to June 30. Since her capture and detention in July 2014, we have been concerned about her deteriorating condition. Savchenko has been subjected to psychiatric evaluations, solitary confinement, and callous treatment by Russian authorities. She also did not receive adequate medical care, especially since her commencement of hunger strikes to protest the terms of her detention. Savchenko is a member of the Parliament Assembly of the Council of Europe, and was elected in absentia to Ukraine’s Parliament in October 2014. The call to end her illegal detention has received overwhelming support from the international community. In January 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called for her immediate release, and the House of Representative filed H.RES.50 calling on Russian authorities to release Savchenko. In February, the Senate passed a companion Resolution calling for the same. In April, Members of the European Parliament passed a resolution demanding her immediate and unconditional release. And in May 2015, the United States Ambassador to Ukraine called on Russia to release Savchenko. In addition, officials at the State Department have repeatedly spoken about their concern for her detention. We urge the Commission to support Nadiya Savchenko’s release and facilitate passage of H.RES. 50. Media contacts: Tom Pietrykoski (Pascrell)Thomas.Pietrykoski@mail.house.govHilarie Chambers (Levin)Hilarie.Chambers@mail.house.gov Aaron Clark (Fitzpatrick)Aaron.Clark@mail.house.gov Matt Sonneborn (Kaptur)Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
06.05.2015	Requires public review period before any deal can be considered for “Fast-Track” authority WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced the Trade Review Accountability Needs Sunlight and Preview of Any Regulations and Exact Negotiated Components (Trade TRANSPAREN-C) Resolution, bipartisan legislation that requires any proposed trade deal to be made publicly available for a minimum of 60 days before it can qualify for a vote that would implement Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), sometimes called “Fast-Track.” “TPA is meant to be an agreement between two equal partners, Congress and the Executive,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Unfortunately it has been abused in recent years. Today it has become more of a blank check for the Executive and turned Congress into little more than a rubber stamp. It has gotten so bad that deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership are essentially finished before Congress even has a chance to weigh in. This legislation calls for an end to this dangerous and irresponsible approach and replaces it with sunlight in the form of public access and accountability.” “We can all agree that these trade agreements will have a significant economic impact,” added Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA), an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “Given that fact, before Congress takes a vote on TPA, or any other trade measure, the American people deserve to see what these agreements contain. And that is what this resolution ensures.” Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S. Constitution assigns Congress the power “To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Rep. Kaptur introduced the resolution with a bipartisan group of 16 co-sponsors including Reps. Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Mark Takai (D-HI), Richard Nolan (D-MN), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Ted Yoho (R-FL), Mo Brooks (R-AL), David McKinley (R-WV), Walter Jones (R-NC), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Scott Perry (R-PA), and Steve Russell (R-OK). ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), co-chair for the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives, came out strongly against a last-minute amendment that would rob $3 million from the St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, a 10 percent cut to the organization’s funding for the coming year. “This last-minute cut to the Seaway budget would be a devastating blow to hundreds of communities that depend on the Seaway as a major source for economic activity,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Its locks and passages are currently undersized and under-maintained. This year’s funding already fails to address these pressing concerns. Cutting an additional ten percent will choke off economic opportunity for communities, all the way from Duluth, Minnesota, through Detroit, Michigan, Toledo and Cleveland Ohio, and Erie, Pennsylvania to Massena, New York, that play a critical role in the American economy. I implore my colleagues to reconsider this ill-advised cut.” The Great Lakes support an estimated 1.5 million jobs, mostly tied to manufacturing, and a $4.5 trillion economy. The region’s manufacturing base depends heavily on transportation and shipping through the St. Lawrence Seaway System, which provides the most sustainable and cost-effective method for transporting goods. Cargo traffic through the St. Lawrence Seaway has increased by eight percent in the past year, a number that is expected to increase following the launch of the first regular liner service between the U.S. and Europe in nearly three decades. ###
06.01.2015	Washington, D.C.– Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Chellie Pingree (D-ME) will co-host a Congressional briefing on Wednesday to discuss provisions of a USDA proposed rule to protect farmers from industry retaliation and past efforts to block the rule from being implemented. The briefing will feature a panel discussion including: - Christopher Leonard, former Associated Press reporter and author of “The Meat Racket: The Secret Takeover of America’s Food Business” - Benny Bunting, Poultry Farmer and Lead Farm Advocate for The Rural Advancement Foundation International (RAFI) - Mike Weaver, Chicken Farmer in Fort Seybert, West Virginia and President of the Contract Poultry Growers of the Virginias - Roger Johnson, President of the National Farmers Union(Moderator) Background: For years, a handful of companies have used their market power to control the poultry industry at the expense of independent contract farmers. As part of the 2008 Farm Bill, Congress directs USDA to write and implement regulations that protect contract farmers and level the playing field. To date only a few of USDA’s proposed rules have been finalized with the remaining blocked by the GIPSA rider, which has restricted USDA from implementing or enforcing rules to protect farmers’ basic rights, especially their right to free speech. This issue has received widespread national attention in recent weeks and was featured in a segment on John Oliver’s Last Week Tonight on HBO. Details: WHAT: Briefing: “First Hand Accounts from America’s Farmers on Need for Contract Protection” (OPEN PRESS) WHERE: 2226 Rayburn House Office Building WHEN: Wednesday, June 3, 2015, 2:30-3:30pm Additional press availability for some panelists will follow, 3:30-3:45pm ###
05.28.2015	Ohio Member calls necessary program clear evidence U.S. trade policies are failing American workers WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today issued a stinging rebuke of U.S. trade policies following news that workers laid off at U.S. Steel’s Lorain Tubular Operations and at Lorain Northern Railroad have been determined to be eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). “Today’s announcement will come as welcome relief for thousands of workers and their families in and around Lorain, OH, but my colleagues in Congress need to wake up to the harsh reality of this program. Trade Adjustment Assistance is an essential safety net for workers laid off due to trade but it amounts to a band-aid on the major head trauma that has resulted from decades of U.S. trade policy. The need for TAA is clear and irrefutable evidence that America’s trade policies are failing our working families. Every single one of these Lorain workers lost a job due to irresponsible trade policies and through no fault of their own, the terms of TAA eligibility. The same has to be said of millions of workers throughout the country who have qualified for TAA in recent decades. Talk of TAA’s inclusion in the ongoing Fast Track debate should give pause to every hard working American. The Trans-Pacific Partnership and other similar deals are being rigged from the start. President George Herbert Walker Bush once called trickle down policies “voodoo economics.” I’ve heard the mantra “more jobs, more exports” for decades and I can tell you, that’s voodoo trade policy. It doesn’t happen that way. Instead the U.S. ends up throwing its doors open, liquidating its industries and selling out its workers in a global race to the bottom. Millions of good American jobs don’t disappear on their own; they disappear because of decisions made by Congress and the Executive Branch. And the damage spirals out from there. Lost wages and lost productivity carve away billions of dollars in lost economic opportunity. Imports replace products that were once made in the USA, pulling even more out of the U.S. economy. I see no evidence that these past trends will change with the secretive Trans-Pacific Partnership and big money efforts to put it on the Fast Track. America is not helpless in the face of this problem. We have the economic strength to demand a renegotiation of our worst trade deals, and to decline any new deal until these problems are addressed. Until we fix this problem, the gap between working families and the extremely wealthy will continue to grow.” TAA is a federal initiative for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own due to trade. The requirements for inclusion are stringent and only workers who lost jobs at facilities determined to have been closed or downsized due to trade are eligible. According to the 2013 TAA Annual Report, “nearly 4.8 million workers have been certified trade-affected and eligible to receive TAA benefits and services. As of December 31, 2013, the TAA program had served 2,192,910 workers.” ###
05.28.2015	Federal Announcement Includes Site Cleanup and Rehabilitation in OH-9 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) celebrated a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announcement this morning that a combined $1,400,000 has been awarded to Cuyahoga County, the City of Toledo, and the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) in Cleveland to support the assessment, cleanup and redevelopment of several contaminated properties known as Brownfield sites. Cuyahoga County and the City of Toledo will each receive $500,000 to support assessments at several sites in each area. The Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District has been awarded two grants of $200,000 each. The first award will support cleanup and community coordination at sites in Cleveland's Central neighborhood that have a legacy of significant environmental damage. The second award will support redevelopment at these sites as part of NEORSD's broader Woodland Central Green Infrastructure Project, which includes new catch basins and storm sewers that will help manage storm water runoff more efficiently. “This is great news for our region and an exciting opportunity to clean up valuable sites and get them back into service,” said Rep. Kaptur. “These investments not only support the health and safety of surrounding communities, they also create new opportunities for community and small business investment that drives economic growth and job creation. I applaud U.S. EPA for supporting this important work.” “We are thrilled to be receiving these grants and grateful to Rep. Kaptur for her ongoing support,” said Julius Ciaccia, CEO, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District. “In addition to controlling combined sewer overflows and protecting Lake Erie, our Green Infrastructure Program also helps with revitalization and repurposing of Cleveland’s legacy Brownfields. These grants enable the Sewer District to implement green infrastructure that turns what was once an eyesore and a potential health risk into an amenity for the community and an asset for Lake Erie.” “This is a huge win for the City of Toledo and we are fortunate to have a long and successful history of working with USEPA on brownfield redevelopment and environmental assessment of properties,” said Bill Burkett, Commissioner of Economic and Business Development at the City of Toledo. “USEPA Brownfield programs have played an integral role in the City’s economic development. There is no area of the City that has not included USEPA assistance.” “Thanks to this award, the City of Toledo will be able to assess multiple sites throughout Toledo and help address blight in our community,” added Marc Gerdeman, Brownfield Redevelopment Officer at the City of Toledo. “With our last assessment grant the City was able to leverage more than $12 million towards cleanup and redevelopment. The City of Toledo’s goal is to continue to promote urban vibrancy by transforming the areas left blighted and underutilized following decades of economic despair. As such, we are focusing our program’s scope to revitalize brownfields in commercial/industrial corridors where there is most potential for sustainable, catalytic redevelopment, where negative impacts on the community are the greatest, and where there is distinct community interest in revitalization.” According to U.S. EPA, since the inception of the EPA’s Brownfields Program in 1995, investments through the initiative have attracted more than $22 billion in subsequent public and private investment for cleanup and redevelopment activities, nearly $18 for every dollar awarded by EPA. These investments have resulted in an estimated 105,942 jobs nationwide. More information about EPA’s Brownfields Program can be found here: https://www.epa.gov/brownfields/. ###
05.27.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), University of Toledo (UT) InterimPresident Nagi Naganathan, UT Professor of Environmental Sciences Dr. Daryl Dwyer, as well as representatives from local governments and environmental groups, celebrated the successful completion of a wetland restoration project at Maumee Bay State Park in Oregon, Ohio. “Today we celebrate a major victory in our shared fight to restore Lake Erie’s water quality,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The results we are seeing from these projects show the impact we can have when we put good science to work protecting the health and safety of our communities and our critical ecosystems. These investments in our precious Maumee watershed have brought partners from across Northwest Ohio together to make a difference. Thanks to this work, we are seeing clear positive results today that will help keep pollutants out of Lake Erie and limit the threat of harmful algal blooms. The successes and lessons learned through these projects will also help direct similar initiatives in the future.” The project was undertaken through two Great Lakes Restoration Initiative grants totaling $1.8 million. The project titles were “Passive Treatment Wetland to Improve Nearshore Health and Reduce Nonpoint Source Pollution” and “Reduction of Sediment and Bacteria Loadings to Public Beaches at Maumee Bay State Park via Enhanced Riparian Habitat.” These projects included the addition of a sedimentation pond in Wolf Creek and a treatment wetland at Maumee State Park that will filter out Escherichia coli (E-coli) bacteria and phosphorus pollutants before runoff water enters Lake Erie. Early results from UT show water quality improvement has been better than expected, with a 94% reduction in E. coli bacteria and a 50% reduction in total phosphorus at the site of the wetland improvements. UT researchers are investigating sites throughout the Maumee River watershed where they could replicate the project and help prevent nonpoint source pollutants from entering Lake Erie. ###
05.26.2015	By Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) - 05/26/15 06:31 PM EDT - Originally printed by The Hill A secretive job-killing global trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) will soon appear before Congress. Supporters want to rush it through with a procedure called “fast-track” that forces a quick vote and offers no opportunity to amend the deal. This would be a mistake. The latest draft of the TPP comes out to around 1,000 pages, making public review a challenge even without the severe time constraints fast-track would impose. In reality the deal is more treaty than tariff reduction measure and should not even be eligible for fast-tracking. This deal needs to be fully reviewed as a treaty, debated and voted on by the U.S. Senate in full sunlight, with a two-thirds vote requirement to ratify. In its current form, the TPP would outsource good jobs, degrade global environmental and working standards and allow investor rights to overrun the rights of workers. The TPP is also packed with special-interest perks thanks to the more than 600 transnational corporations that weighed in on, and in some case wrote, the agreement in secret. Meanwhile the American people have still not been allowed to read it. For six years the U.S. trade representative has kept the TPP buried under a top secret classification. Even members of Congress can only read it in a secure room under the watchful eye of a security monitor. I visited that room last week to review several sections of the deal and was not allowed to make copies, keep notes, take pictures, or share anything I learned with anyone unless they have Top Secret security clearance, all under threat of prosecution. Despite the secrecy, this deal has provisions the American people need to know about. Something called Investor-State Dispute Settlement would allow foreign corporations to sue the United States to force products into our marketplace. If federal or state health, consumer safety, environmental or labor laws ban a product, a three-person panel of international trade lawyers, not subject to Senate confirmation or conflict-of-interest restrictions, can impose heavy fines unless those laws are overturned. These decisions cannot be appealed in any U.S. court. The TPP would also nullify many financial safeguards put into place after the Wall Street collapse of 2008. It ignores currency manipulation, a rampant practice internationally. Importantly, like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement before it, it does not open closed foreign markets, nor does it deal with discriminatory border taxes that increase the costs of importing U.S. products and decrease the cost of foreign exports. And many of the labor and environmental provisions in the deal are entirely unenforceable. The American people need to gauge the TPP’s impact on workers, the economy and our rule of law. Its complicated provisions need to be unpacked in full view. If the TPP was a good deal for America’s working families, small businesses or manufacturing industries, it wouldn’t be kept secret. Members of Congress would not need to be threatened with prosecution to prevent us from sharing its contents with the American people. Our Constitution assigns Congress, not the executive, responsibility “to regulate Commerce with foreign nations.” Using “fast-track” is an end run around the Constitution to force us to rubber-stamp a bad deal. The TPP will outsource good jobs, liquidate America’s industries and punch holes in U.S. sovereignty. Congress and its constituents, the American people, must be allowed access to the TPP — and time to review it. Given the opportunity, Congress could amend this deal and put our economic strength to work for the American people. If Congress agrees to give up our constitutional responsibility and fast-track this secretive deal, we will be cashing out America at the expense of future generations. Kaptur has represented Ohio’s 9th Congressional District since 1983. She sits on the Appropriations Committee.
05.21.2015	U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announces agreement to dredge full six miles of Cuyahoga navigation channel WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur responded to news that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has agreed to dredge the full six miles of the lower Cuyahoga River and the Port of Cleveland and is beginning work today. “Keeping the Cleveland Harbor system fully dredged is essential for many industries and thousands of workers that depend on it.” said Rep. Kaptur. “At the same time, dumping toxic dredging materials directly into Lake Erie is simply not an option. I and many others have fought hard to ensure the Cleveland Harbor system is fully dredged this year in a way that does not resort to open lake dumping. The Corps has finally agreed to step up and do this work the right way, and I applaud them for that.” USACE had previously agreed to dredge the first five miles of the lower Cuyahoga River, clearing and depositing an estimated 45,000 cubic yards of dredged material into a confined disposal facility (CDF) at a cost of $294,550. The final mile was previously contested, requiring the removal of an estimated 180,000 cubic yards of dredged material at an cost of $1.485 million. Dredging the Cuyahoga River Federal Navigation Channel is necessary to enable delivery of essential raw materials to ArcelorMittal Cleveland, one of the largest integrated steel mills in the U.S. located at the head of navigation on the Cuyahoga River. This facility employs approximately 1,900 workers with more than 13,000 indirect and secondary jobs dependent on the facility. According to USACE, dredging will start today and continue through mid-July. Sediment removed from the channel will be placed into confined disposal facilities (CDFs), near Burke Front Airport, Cleveland, OH. “USACE fully recognizes the importance of dredging Cleveland Harbor to maintain the federal navigation channel for safe navigation and economic viability of the region,” said LTC Karl Jansen, USACE Buffalo District commander. A federal judge ruledthis week that USACE must fully dredge the Cleveland Harborand Cuyahoga River shipping channel, pending the resolution of an Ohio state lawsuit to determine whether the state or USACE would bear the final cost of full dredging and responsible disposal. Rep. Kaptur recently held an eventat the Port of Cleveland to highlight the jobs and economic impact that depend on a fully-dredged port. ###
05.13.2015	Kaptur Amendment would have provided rental support for almost half of the nation’s 49,900 homeless veterans WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Republican Members on the House Appropriations Committee rejected an amendment proposed by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) to provide housing support for at least 22,500 of our nation’s estimated 49,900 homeless veterans. “Tens of thousands of our nation’s veterans, men and women who have served our country bravely and selflessly, are homeless,” said Rep. Kaptur. “At this very moment a homeless veteran is preparing to sleep in a doorway, under a bridge, or in a car. And that veteran is one of thousands. This is inexcusable. We are failing in our basic responsibility to support our veterans. My amendment would have stitched closed one of the biggest holes in our safety net for veterans. Thanks to partisan opposition, that hole remains open and thousands of veterans will be left out in the cold tonight.” The transportation and housing budget proposed by Republicans includes major cuts to federal housing programs that support some of our poorest and most vulnerable Americans. In total, the proposed bill provides roughly 100,000 fewer housing vouchers than the President’s proposed budget. Rental assistance currently supports an estimated 340,000 veterans. The vote followed party lines with Democrats voting to support and Republicans voting against. Rep. Kaptur urged Republican leaders to work with her as the bill moved forward to help identify future sources of support for rental vouchers for homeless veterans. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) has called out GOP lawmakers last night for their push to adopt H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection (RIP) Act. This bill would block the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from finalizing a clarifying rule determining whether certain waterways are covered under the Clean Water Act. The contested rule would reduce costly confusion and delays to permitting, and help ensure streams, wetlands, and surrounding communities are protected. “This senseless legislation puts politics before good public policy,” said Rep. Kaptur. "Much of the pollution and nutrient runoff entering Lake Erie and other waterways originates in land that is not currently covered by the Clean Water Act. The result is toxic algal blooms and fouled beaches that endanger public health and unfairly shift costs from polluters to local communities. The EPA has done its due diligence on this new rule but Republican leaders in Congress are blundering in at the eleventh hour to throw sand in the gears and protect polluter loopholes. It makes no sense. Human beings who live in the same watershed must learn to live together for the sake of all.” Collin O’Mara, president and chief executive officer of the National Wildlife Federation, said this of the House vote: "All Americans should have a right to clean, safe drinking water and healthy populations of fish and other aquatic life. This bill undermines protections of at-risk waters from which we drink, swim, and fish. Scuttling the process now is premature as EPA is working to clarify and improve the rule based upon sound science and the million public comments received. We urge Congress to exercise restraint until the final rule is released and to work to protect our drinking water supplies, conserve our favorite recreational waterways, and restore important habitats for numerous species of wildlife." Confusion over waterways covered by the Clean Water Act comes from two Supreme Court decisions (2001 and 2006) that consider whether waters and tributaries in the upper portions of a watershed, as well as isolated, intrastate, non-navigable waters, are protected under the Act. The Bush Administration added to confusion in their effort to interpret the standard, and the result has left us with an inconsistent patchwork system. The EPA has held more than 400 public meetings to get public feedback on its clarifying rule, which was first proposed in April 2014. The bill blocking the rule was passed in the House last night by a vote of 261 to 155. The Obama Administration has threatened to veto the bill if it passes in the Senate as well. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— The House Appropriations Committee adopted an amendment proposed by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) to stop a devastating 10% budget cut and restore $3.642 million in funding for the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway administration. “Due to our firm actions today, the Great Lakes and the economic lifeline that is the St. Lawrence Seaway no longer face crippling budget cuts for the coming year,” said Rep. Kaptur. “These cuts would have severely limited the important work being done to maintain the Seaway as an economic resource for our region. Thanks to bipartisan support from my colleagues, we were able to stop these damaging cuts in their tracks.” The Kaptur amendment maintains funding for the St. Lawrence Seaway with the expansion of global service and works with Canada to improve waterborne commerce, the most cost-effective and sustainable means for transporting cargo. Republican leadership on the committee had proposed cuts that would have reduced the Seaway budget to $28.4 million from its current level of $32 million. The St. Lawrence Seaway supports more than 226,000 jobs and facilitates the transportation of more than 322 million metric tons of cargo every year. It also offers the fastest route for delivering cargo between the U.S. and Europe. The Great Lakes region accounts for an estimated one quarter of all U.S. exports. Rep. Kaptur co-chairs the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives and is Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Energy and Water Development Subcommittee. ###
05.06.2015	Urges state, local leaders to prepare for algal bloom season, calls for better research and monitoring TOLEDO, OH— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur recognized the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today for releasing preliminary guidance for communities dealing with toxic algae, providing new safe consumption limits and recommending a collection of best-practices for water testing, treatment, and public notification. “One of the most glaring gaps in our algal bloom planning has been a lack of clear recommendations for state and local governments to respond,” said Rep. Kaptur. “While this is only a first step, today’s draft guidance from EPA will allow our region to prepare short-term emergency response plans using the best available information to help keep our citizens safe. With another algal bloom season looming, I urge our state and local leaders to review and respond to these recommendations as soon as possible.” Today’s EPA announcement includes best practices for water monitoring, treatment options, coordinating with health agencies, and communicating with the public. In response to continued Congressional pressure and calls from state and local officials, EPA released their draft report early so communities will have time to prepare for the coming algal bloom season. An official EPA health advisory is set to be finalized by June 15. “This is an important step as we come into another algal bloom season, but we still have a lot of work to do,” Kaptur added. “We need better monitoring systems, better public awareness, and better research to determine the best prevention and treatment options. We still know very little about the long-term effects of lower-level exposure to microcystins, and the blooms will continue and the dangers will remain until we find a way to stop them.” The new guidance works from the most up-to-date EPA analysis and recommendations, setting short-term exposure limits for microcystins in drinking water. Recommended ten-day health advisory exposure levels are 1.6 parts per billion (μg/L) for adults and school-age children, and .3 parts per billion (μg/L) for infants and small children. Prior to these recommendations, there was no official U.S. national drinking water safety standard for microcystins. As a result, the EPA had defaulted to a World Health Organization standard of 1 part per billion in carrying out tests of Toledo's water quality during the emergency August. Rep. Kaptur has actively pursued improved federal responses to harmful algal blooms. She co-sponsored legislation directing EPA to appoint an algal bloom response coordinator for the Great Lakes, secured federal funding for improved conservation practices, and sponsored legislation to limit nutrient runoff into Lake Erie. Kaptur also praised recently-announced plans for a $3.6 million algal bloom satellite early warning system using data from NASA, USGS, NOAA and the US EPA, and called on NASA to fund the project at the national level. She currently serves as co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives. ###
05.05.2015	Small Business Week events bring out crowds for practical advice, small business & start up discussions CLEVELAND, OH— More than 160 business and community leaders came out to participate in local Small Business Administration (SBA) seminars hosted by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur yesterday in Toledo and Huron/Sandusky and today in Cleveland. These events kicked off Small Business Week 2015, which started Monday. “Small businesses are essential to unleashing the full power of a healthy economy,” said Rep. Kaptur. “They support jobs, drive innovation, and create opportunity in communities throughout Northern Ohio. The discussions that took place at these events showed the extraordinary potential of our region to bring creative ideas to market. Thanks to the participants for contributing to lively and constructive discussions, and to our organizers who made these events possible. If properly supported, our region’s innovators and entrepreneurs will continue to help us create an economically sustainable north coast.” The theme of Small Business Week this year is “Dream Big, Start Small” with a focus on small manufacturers, very small businesses and home-based start ups. The events in Toledo, Huron/Sandusky and Cleveland were set up to provide practical guidance and outline available services to help grow businesses in the region, including through SBA loans, technical assistance, selling products to the Federal Government, and launching and conducting e-commerce. According to the Ohio SBA, Ohio is home to more than 900,000 small businesses employing more than two million people combined. ###
05.05.2015	Ohio Housing Finance Agency will address blighted, vacant properties in Cuyahoga, Lorain, Lucas counties Toledo, OH— Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur celebrated the allocation of $4,968,105.61 by the Ohio Housing Finance Agency (OHFA) to assist Northern Ohio land banks through its Neighborhood Initiative Program (NIP). Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation will receive $2,699,071.83, Lorain County Land Reutilization Corporation will receive $269,033.78 and Lucas County Land Reutilization Corporation will receive $2,000,000.00. “This initiative will go a long way to reducing blighted properties and stabilizing home values in communities across Northern Ohio,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This is an important step to begin the healing process in neighborhoods that were impacted by the recent economic downturn. Partnering with these three successful county land banks helps put these properties back into circulation, giving them a fresh start and getting the surrounding neighborhoods back on track. Thank you to the Ohio Housing Finance Agency and the U.S. Treasury Department for supporting these important initiatives.” The maximum amount of assistance per property is $25,000 with an estimated average amount of assistance of $12,000. Awardees are responsible for all aspects of the property acquisition and removal as well as plans for greening and ongoing maintenance of the property. Nearly 800 blighted structures have been removed with more than 100 units pending approval as a result of the first and second rounds of funding; and more than 60 lots have been transferred and greened. Thus far, NIP has disbursed and reserved $10 million. At the current funding levels, OHFA expects to eliminate 5,500 vacant and blighted units by October 2016. “Through blight elimination we have increased our impact to not only stem the tide of foreclosures in critical neighborhoods, but to proactively preserve homeowner equity and enable our communities to wholly recover from the effects of the foreclosure crisis,” said Doug Garver, executive director of OHFA. “NIP is not a deviation from, but rather an expansion of, our foreclosure prevention investment.” ###
05.01.2015	Toledo, Huron/Sandusky and Cleveland area seminars hosted by Cleveland SBA TOLEDO, OH– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur will lead Small Business Administration (SBA) Small Business Week 2015 seminars for Ohio’s 9th Congressional District, with events in the Toledo, Huron/Sandusky and Cleveland Areas on Monday and Tuesday of next week. Rep. Kaptur and the U.S. Small Business Administration are hosting seminars for home-based small businesses, start-ups, very small businesses and small manufacturers to share practical guidance and available services that can help grow businesses, including through SBA loans, technical assistance, selling products to the Federal Government, and launching and conducting e-commerce. Panel topics include: “Strategies for starting or growing your business” and “What bankers need to say yes!” Those interested can sign up to attend a seminar of their choice through the links below. Details: WHAT: Toledo Area SBA Seminar (OPEN PRESS) WHERE: University of Toledo – Savage & Associates Complex for Business Learning and Engagement: Room 1200 A & B, 2801 Bancroft Street, Toledo, OH 43606 WHEN: Monday, May 4, 2015 from 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM (EDT) REGISTER AT: https://small-business-week-5-4-15-morning-session-toledo.eventbrite.com WHAT: Huron/Sandusky Area SBA Seminar (OPEN PRESS) WHERE: BGSU-Firelands Campus, Cedar Point Center Auditorium, One University Drive, Huron, OH 44839 WHEN: Monday, May 4, 2015 from 2:30 PM – 4:00 PM (EDT) REGISTER AT: https://small-business-week-5-4-15-afternoon-huron.eventbrite.com WHAT: Cleveland Area SBA Seminar (OPEN PRESS) WHERE: Cuyahoga Community College Advanced Technology Training Center, 3409 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44115 (free parking behind building) WHEN: Tuesday, May 5, 2015 from 2:30 PM – 4:00 PM (EDT) REGISTER AT: https://small-business-week-5-5-15-cleveland.eventbrite.com ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, delivered remarks to open debate for Energy and Water appropriations legislation on the House floor. Her full statement: “I want to thank Chairman Simpson for his bipartisan approach to putting this bill together. Thank you also to our staff—Donna Shahbaz and Taunja Berquam, the Republican and Democratic Clerks, as well as the rest of the Committee Staff Matt Anderson, Angie Giancarlo, Loraine Heckenberg, and Perry Yates, and in the personal offices, Sarah Cannon and Ryan Steyer. Their countless long hours, late nights, and thoughtful insight are so critical to helping us prepare this legislation. Thirty-seven years ago, President Jimmy Carter, after the first Arab oil embargo and gasoline prices exploded and the U.S. fell into deep recession, championed the creation of the U.S. Department of Energy. He equated the struggle for America’s energy independence as the moral equivalent of war, and he was right. He set a goal to steer the U.S. toward energy independence by 1985. Today, America still struggles to meet that challenge, set out nearly four decades ago—reducing our imported energy dependence, curbing our voracious appetite for foreign oil, and growing a diverse domestic energy portfolio that invests in America and job creation here at home. Containing our growing consumption topped the President Carter’s agenda, but while he successfully reduced consumption during his presidency, his successor lost focus. Demand for gasoline increased by 40 percent in the 25 years after he left office—a troubling reality as every economic recession since World War II has come on the heels of a sharp spike in gasoline prices. Under the current Administration, partnerships between the DOE Labs and automotive companies have finally helped level out demand for gasoline with increasing fuel efficiency. President Carter also envisioned a new energy horizon for our nation including renewable energy and conservation. Solar electric capacity currently operating in our country is enough to power more than 3.5 million average American homes. Today, 90 percent of homes in our country are insulated. These are important milestones for our country and America must push onward. On the critical issue of reducing foreign oil dependence, President Carter’s initiative strikingly reduced imports below the target of six million barrels a day—a cut of nearly 1/3—but after his Presidency imports again went on the rise in subsequent decades. Vast energy imports continue to represent the single largest component of our trade deficit. That translates into millions of forfeited jobs here at home. Still, at $47 billion last year, crude oil imports were roughly equal to the next four largest trade categories combined. (Pharmaceuticals, Telecommunications Equipment, Cell Phones, and Computers) Around the world, the war over energy rages on—look only to Europe’s compromised position toward Ukraine and, of course, oil rich but unstable Iraq. We must position our own nation to a secure energy future. Our bill’s priority is to strengthen our nation’s energy foundation. This bill does responsibly invest in that effort, as well as in our nuclear security and water infrastructure. But, I must ask: at what cost does our bill do this? Because our bill is among the first two to be considered, there are 10 bills that follow and, put simply, they were raided to pay for ours. This Republican budget will mean that additional funding for this bill comes at the expense of other vital national needs that will be shortchanged as subsequent appropriations bills are brought forward, 12 of them in total. For example, this bill funds incredible advanced scientific research. But it does so at the expense of the Health and Human Services bill that shorts our students and our next generation of scientists, who should be building their foundations now. We provide for the Department of Energy labs, whose new technologies will power our future. But why are the National Institutes of Health shortchanged in the HHS bill? Its discoveries will save and improve millions of lives. In our bill, nuclear weapons funding will increase by half a billion dollars. Meanwhile, crumbling cities will lose even more resources, elderly housing will remain unfunded, and our poorest families will continue struggling to put food on the table. Nuclear nonproliferation and environmental cleanup efforts will make our world safer. But, on America’s streets, police and fire departments will remain understaffed, insufficiently trained, and under equipped because the commerce Justice State Department Bill is shorted. In our bill there are no new starts for Army Corps of Engineers infrastructure, whose $60 billion backlog is astounding. But, America’s roads will be shortchanged and remain pothole-ridden, the rail lines clogged, with more bridges on the brink of collapse because the Transportation bill has been shortchanged too. The Bureau of Reclamation will continue to help our 17 Western states cope with record drought. Yet, severe underfunding of the Clean Water and Drinking Water Funds will further threaten the freshwater supply of thousands more communities across the country—no amount of duct tape can fix all the leaking pipes. This bill sacrifices the long term strength of our nation, short changes other bills that are essential appropriations responsibilities. Cutting-edge research, energy independence, nuclear weapons, and the Corps of Engineers don’t need to come at the expense of critical infrastructure, community first responders, and a world class STEM education for America’s students. But that is the game plan the Republican budget has handed us. It is not a prescription for an American success story. The Appropriations Committee’s discretionary programs are too thin a reed on which to balance our nation’s accounts. Last time I looked, our contribution to GDP was 6.8 percent. The Ways and Means Committee must put its cards on the table and open its vast jurisdiction to scrutiny. Mandatory programs must be put on the table. Then the preparation of America’s budget will have an engine in which all pistons are firing and engaged. We want to produce an appropriations bill here tonight, but I find myself feeling guilty for the resources that were taken from so many other bills. Though our Energy and Water bill is regrettable, it is only one oar in the water pushing our ship of state forward. We can’t reach our destination without the other oars in the water too. For that reason, I urge my colleagues to vote no on this measure in hopes that a message will be sent. The American people deserve all hands on deck.” ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur sounded the alarm for U.S. veterans and service members today, coming out strongly against GOP-led efforts to cut veterans medical care by $690 million in the FY 2016 Veterans Administration (VA) budget. These cuts would result in an estimated 70,000 fewer veterans receiving VA medical care. “Our nation’s veterans fought to defend our way of life, and many of them risked everything to do it,” said Rep. Kaptur. “They have earned the best possible care and support. But instead of fulfilling this sacred responsibility, my Republican colleagues have proposed to find budget savings by withholding services from tens of thousands of veterans. These are not people who should ever be subjected to political maneuvers or budgetary games. I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass a budget that does not degrade care for our nation’s veterans.” The proposed cuts are a result of the House mark-up of the latest appropriations bill, which will set funding levels for FY2016. They include cuts to VA medical care, IT accounts, all VA discretionary accounts, and the elimination of four major construction projects and five cemetery expansions. “The nationwide crisis in care and confidence that erupted in the VA last year was caused in many ways by a lack of adequate resourcing that only Congress is authorized to provide,” said VFW Commander-in-Chief John W. Stroud. “The VA cannot fulfill its mission without proper funding, but the House for whatever reason now wants to ration care, eliminate infrastructure projects, and stop improving upon the programs and services that the VA was created to provide. This bill is bad for veterans and any vote for it is unconscionable.” ###
04.29.2015	Japanese Prime Minister Calls on Congress, President to Further Disadvantage U.S. WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) criticized Japan’s ongoing unfair and anti-competitive trade policies, including its history of currency manipulation, this morning after a speech by Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to a Joint Session of Congress. “For decades, Japan has been allowed to have it both ways on trade,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Meanwhile the U.S. has repeatedly thrown open its doors, liquidating U.S. industries and outsourcing jobs while doing little or nothing to protect American workers, manufacturers, or the U.S. economy from harm. Japan could be a great U.S. trading partner some day, but their history of damaging and unfair currency manipulation and their insistently closed markets guarantee that day will not be coming anytime soon. I stand strongly opposed to the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Fast Track authority that would grease the ledge for its approval.” The U.S. trade deficit with Japan is one of the largest in the world, reaching a cumulative total of nearly $2 trillion ($1,963,654,100,100) since 1983 through the first quarter of 2015. According to a recent study by the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Japan stands to gain the most overall, an estimated $119.4 billion or 2.2 percent of their national economy, if the TPP is enacted. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the U.S. trade deficit with Japan displaced 896,600 U.S. jobs in 2013 alone. Fifty two percent, or 466,000 of these jobs, were in manufacturing with 13.3 percent or 118,800 jobs just in motor vehicles and parts. Ohio was among the hardest hit states, losing 50,900 jobs due to the trade deficit with Japan that year. Ohio’s 9th Congressional district ranked #30 among all 436 U.S. Congressional districts with 3,400 net jobs displaced due to the 2013 U.S. trade deficit with Japan. ###
04.29.2015	Accounting for inflation, sequester levels provide least funding for critical projects since 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) delivered opening remarks to the House Committee on Rules last night, calling for a budget compromise that will end harmful sequester cuts that neglect critical projects. Energy and water projects and initiatives support U.S. economic development and manufacturing competitiveness, nuclear security, energy independence, water security, and basic infrastructure that prevents flooding and droughts throughout the country. Her full statement: Chairman Sessions, Ranking Member Slaughter, and Members of the Rules Committee, I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you today on behalf of our dedicated Subcommittee. Before getting to the substance of the bill, let me first address the process by which we arrive before you today. The President has requested a robust increase for this bill in FY 2016, calling on Congress to provide the critical and necessary support to accelerate and sustain economic growth, anchored in energy independence, domestic energy security, a safe and modernized nuclear weapons capability, and water, port, and maritime improvements to serve a growing nation and growing international trade. Yet Congress finds itself ensnared in a worst-case scenario that never should have happened and absolutely should never be repeated – the spending caps put in place by the Budget Control Act. In FY 2016, the sequester-level caps would put discretionary funding at its lowest level, adjusted for inflation, since 2006. There may be different views on how to get to a workable budget with twelve accompanying appropriations bills that follow; but the art of compromise must be put to use again to eliminate the spending caps that threaten so many critical Federal programs that underpin the economy and the health of our citizens. Even the Republican Budget Resolution acknowledges the need for relief from sequestration, though it does so by using creative accounting and merely aspirational language. With only 12 percent of federal spending under our Appropriations Committee’s jurisdiction, we simply cannot alone meet the straight jacket of the sequester daydream. The Ways and Means Committee has a large, unfulfilled responsibility on the revenue side to balance America’s accounts. While the Murray-Ryan plan was not perfect, another bipartisan budget agreement is essential for FY16 and beyond. Without such an agreement this year, I fear our entire appropriations process is deeply imperiled. Congress must again act to ensure reasonable allocations for the essential programs and investments funded through the appropriations process that modernize America and translate to progress, not retrenchment and backsliding for our Republic. With that, let me touch on three of the most important areas this bill addresses—energy, water, and nuclear security. 1. Advancing energy technologies is critical to restoring an energy self-reliant America, promoting competitive American manufacturing, and reducing the insidious political and economic damage wrought by energy sector trade deficits. 2. Relieving the $60 billion backlog in uncompleted projects in water infrastructure. We must keep our ports open for business, mitigate floods, and help our country adapt to the challenges of both fresh water scarcity in our drought-stricken West and with rising water insecurity, due to toxic nutrient runoff, in fresh-water rich regions like the Great Lakes 3. Cleaning up our nuclear legacy to minimize the burden passed onto future generations, deterring threats of nuclear proliferation, and responsibly maintaining our own weapons program are all vitally important and strategic responsibilities. While funding in this bill is an increase over last year, it still falls $633 million short of what the agencies feel they need. For example, seriously underfunded is modernization of a more secure and robust energy grid. As I have already mentioned, the funding shortfalls in this bill are part of an overall budget that is simply inadequate to meet the needs of our country and move America forward. This bill includes a number of unnecessary and controversial policy riders. That, coupled with funding concerns, may imperil the enactment of this bill. The inclusion of controversial riders is an unnecessary diversion from our primary responsibility ensuring that taxpayer funds are invested wisely to contribute to the economic well being of our Nation. Finally, Chairman Sessions, I ask that the Committee provide an open rule. Please allow me to express my deep appreciation for the bipartisan approach the Chairman took in the process of developing this product. While I disagree with several of the funding levels and with the riders that were included, the Chairman is a man of his word and a gentleman always. Thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today. ###
04.28.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Joins Lucas County Commissioners in Opposition of “Fast Track” of Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement Toledo, OH – The Board of Lucas County Commissioners held a press conference this morning to announce a resolution calling upon members of the U.S. Congress to oppose granting “Fast Track” authority to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement. The Commissioners were joined by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and Bruce Baumhower, President of United Auto Workers Local 12 who discussed the status of this legislation and the potential impact the Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement will have on workers and jobs here in Lucas County. Lucas County Commissioners Tina Skeldon Wozniak, Pete Gerken, and Carol Contrada urged Congress to oppose granting the Office of the United States Trade Representative “Fast Track” authority to expedite congressional consideration of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement (TPP). Trade Promotion Authority, also known as “Fast Track,” delegates Congress’ authority to set terms of international commerce to the Executive Branch. This type of policymaking severely impedes the democratic process of lawmaking and cuts legislators out of important legislative procedures. In the past, “Fast Track” authority has resulted in NAFTA-style trade deals that have shipped local jobs overseas and closed manufacturing facilities while giving financial breaks to multinational corporations. The Board of Lucas County Commissioners offered this statement: “There is no room to repeat the mistakes of so-called ‘fair trade’ deals of the past. It is vital to our democracy and our economic interests that Congress has the opportunity to review and amend provisions in proposed trade deals. We ask Congress to oppose “Fast Track” to ensure our labor force is protected here at home and support fair trade that promotes American job growth and environmental stewardship.” “We have seen the consequences of Fast Track trade agreements that have dismantled Northern Ohio industries and shipped our jobs overseas,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Decades of bad trade policy have outsourced good jobs, closed manufacturing facilities, hobbled our economy and abandoned countless working families here and around the country. This is the legacy of our current U.S. trade policy. Fast-Tracking another bad deal with another blank check is irresponsible and will dig us deeper into deficit. We need a new model for U.S. trade, and we need to renegotiate the bad trade deals of the past. I proposed legislation earlier this year called the Balancing Trade Act of 2015 to do just that. We need to stop selling out America’s working families and never again Fast-Track another bad trade deal.” ###
04.27.2015	Delivers Opening Remarks at White House Conference on Aging, Rally for Retirement Security CLEVELAND, OH– Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) delivered opening remarks at the 2015 White House Conference on Aging (WHCOA) Midwest Regional Forum and at Senior Voice!, a Rally on Retirement Security in Cleveland today. Both events featured discussion and testimonials on various issues affecting older Americans including retirement security, access to quality healthcare services, healthy aging, long-term care services and support, and protecting older Americans from financial exploitation, abuse, and neglect. “Former U.S. Senator and Vice President Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota once advised that the moral test of government is how it cares for its people—from the dawn of life to its twilight,” said Rep. Kaptur. “During my years of service‎, I have been privileged to vote for strengthening the Social Security system for this and future generations, including Medicare and disability Insurance for all families. Cleveland is honored to be one of five host cities for the 2015 White House Conference on Aging. The discussions taking place here today will help move our region and our country in a positive direction on important issues, helping to ensure a safer and more secure retirement for generations to come.” This year marks the 50th anniversary of Medicare, Medicaid and the Older Americans Act as well as the 80th anniversary of Social Security. Last year, 15.6% of Americans were covered under Medicare. As of December 2013, there were 1.75 million Ohioans age 65 or older, of which 89.7 percent received Social Security benefits. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Social Security lifts more than 620,000 of Ohio’s seniors out of poverty every year. Rep. Kapturadded, “For 80 years, Social Security has protected millions of seniors from the danger of outliving their savings, once one of our nation’s greatest problems. There is so much we can achieve when we work together with this kind of visionary purpose.” ###
04.24.2015	Japanese closed markets and currency manipulation spoil any possible deal WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) went to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday to contest any trade agreement the U.S. might make with Japan as part of the secretive Trans-Pacific Partnership. Serious concerns continue to surround efforts to rush such a deal through Congress before Representatives have a chance to exercise their Constitutional responsibility to review it. Rep. Kaptur’s speech came less than a week before Japan’s Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, is scheduled to meet with President Barack Obama and to deliver an address before Congress. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the U.S. trade deficit with Japan displaced 896,600 U.S. jobs in 2013 alone. Fifty two percent, or 466,000 of these jobs, were in manufacturing with 13.3 percent or 118,800 jobs just in motor vehicles and parts. Ohio was among the hardest hit states, losing 50,900 jobs due to the trade deficit with Japan that year. Ohio’s 9th Congressional district ranked #30 among all 436 U.S. Congressional districts with 3,400 net jobs displaced due to the 2013 U.S. trade deficit with Japan. Rep. Kaptur’s full remarks: “Congress has spent this past week trying to “fast-track” trade promotion authority and the new Trans-Pacific Partnership proposal for trade agreements with several nations in the Pacific. Why rush such a significant piece of legislation that cedes Congress’s Constitutional authority to the executive branch? Meanwhile Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe and President Obama are scheduled for April 28th to further fast-track this agreement. Rushing this process is an easy tactic to try to silence a reasonable opposition. But based on our country’s history of making trade deals that drive up our trade deficit and outsource millions of U.S. jobs, the American people should be alarmed. I and many others are sounding that alarm. Japan is one of the most significant partners in this agreement and is the world’s second largest currency manipulator and one of the leading protectionist markets in the Pacific. They have much to gain from a weak trade agreement. Japan is the world’s 3rd largest automobile market, but 96% of that market belongs only to Japanese automobiles. Since 2000, we’ve been able to sell 183,000 cars there. Guess how many they sold here: 16.3 million. That’s 89,000 to one. There’s something wrong with trying to work a deal that rewards a country whose markets are closed. We need a new trade model that creates jobs in America again and does not reward currency manipulators and protectionist markets.” ###
04.24.2015	NPS, Conservancy to install East Rim off-road single track bike & hike trail WASHINGTON—Yesterday the National Park Service (NPS) announced $26 million in federal support for more than 100 initiatives including $183,403 for the Cuyahoga Valley National Park to build the park’s first off-road single track bicycle and hiking trail. “Building and maintaining these trails will help protect Cuyahoga National Park and encourage visitors and community members alike to come out and enjoy this local treasure,” said Rep. Kaptur. “We are blessed to have this National Park in our own backyard, promoting healthy activity in our community, encouraging tourism and helping strengthen our connection with nature. Continuing investment in the park and surrounding area will help establish it as a coastal-wide destination that draws in tourists from near and far.” According to the National Park Service, this federal support will be matched by $198,687 from the Conservancy for Cuyahoga Valley National Park to build the East Rim Trail, “a 21st century recreation opportunity [that] will become part of a network of major regional long distance bicycle and hiking trails including Summit Metro Park’s Bike & Hike Trail, the Towpath Trail, the Buckeye Trail, and the Cleveland Metropark’s Emerald Necklace Trail.” ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON–Representative Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), announced today her introduction of the BREAKING ADDICTION ACT OF 2015, cosponsored by Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Tim Ryan (OH-13). This legislation addresses a significant barrier to accessing inpatient treatment as our nation grapples with an epidemic of heroin and opiate related deaths. Further, it increases states’ flexibility under their Medicaid programs to cover treatment for substance use disorders (SUDs) in expanded or additional community-based facilities. Under current federal law, a section of the Medicaid statute, known as the institutions for mental diseases (IMD) exclusion, prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to accept applications to waive the IMD exclusion from states that seek to provide comprehensive addiction treatment in their jurisdictions. The bill would specifically facilitate reimbursements to states that cover medical assistance to treat an SUD in an IMD of not more than 60 beds. “Only one out of nine Americans who suffers from substance abuse gets treated. Many of these individuals sought care, but were turned away due to a lack of treatment beds. In 2014, 252 heroin-related deaths occurred in Cuyahoga and Summit Counties. This is unacceptable. The Breaking Addiction Act provides the means to save lives in a responsible manner and it does so without adding to the federal deficit,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “Each day I turn on the news and hear another devastating story about a life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women get the access to the care that is desperately needed, and that means taking a hard look at our current treatment structure. That is why I am proud to join Congresswoman Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which addresses the growing drug crisis and increases access to addiction treatment. Not another day should go by that a person can’t find help due to this outdated system. As Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I will continue to urge my congressional colleagues to move this legislation forward and help stem this harmful slide,” said Congressman Ryan. “Drug addiction is a debilitating disease, and the people who suffer from it deserve the same standard of care available to anyone else who gets sick in this country,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This legislation is urgently needed as rates of heroin overdose, prescription drug abuse and other forms of addiction are rising at an alarming rate, especially in our region. This budget-neutral approach rises to meet that need by expanding access to mental health treatment and allowing mental health facilities to expand without losing federal support. Members of our community are suffering. This would help them break the cycle of addiction and make our health care system work better for everyone. Let’s get it done.” The Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 replaces and updates legislation introduced by Reps. Fudge and Ryan in 2014. By utilizing waivers that are required to be budget neutral to the federal government, this bill is not only cost efficient but is also expected to result in savings due to system wide reductions in the cost of untreated addiction. See a list of frequently asked questions about the legislation here. Click here to read the text of the bill. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) delivered opening remarks for the House Appropriations Committee this morning as the committee begins markup of language from the Energy and Water Subcommittee where Kaptur serves as Ranking Member. Rep. Kaptur is also offering an amendment to remove controversial policy riders, most notably a provision that would roll back efforts to protect certain bodies of water, including ponds and marshes, under the Clean Water Act. Her opening statement in full: “Mr. Chairman, please let me recognize you for the hard effort and collegiality required to prepare this Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water bill. Special gratitude is extended as well to Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, and the dedicated members of our Subcommittee for their diligence and good attendance. Finally, to our exceptional subcommittee professional staff—Donna Shahbaz on the Republican side and Taunja Berquam on the Democratic side—all of us appreciate your indefatigable work ethic and very long hours devoted to this bill. I think both the Chairman and I are very pleased to see our bill move first through this appropriations cycle. It is a fitting bill to be considered on Earth Day. Surely, the twelve bills that come through our Full Committee offer the Legislative Branch a precious Constitutional responsibility to meet our nation’s obligations to future generations through our combined efforts. From America’s nuclear security to the educational opportunity for millions of youngsters across our nation, our bills touch every aspect of American life. Unfortunately, the allocations the Committee is working with are based on the House Majority’s Budget Resolution. The budget conference is ongoing. Members on both sides of the aisle have publically acknowledged that the allocation is inadequate. We need a sensible overall budget number along with firm Subcommittee allocations. Without these, our Subcommittee is placed in a most difficult position. While our Committee will address the broader 302(b) allocations in a short while, moving this bill absent a sensible overall budget number is truly putting the cart before the horse. Further, the Energy and Water bill does have a reasonable 302(b) under this scenario—a $1.2 billion increase, compared to the $1.8 billion increase in the budget request—however it comes at the expense of other Subcommittees whose worthy work hangs in suspended animation. We meet at a time when the Western part of our nation is becoming more desert like. We witness a world where the politics of energy is compromising liberty and where our nation is still not energy independent. We feel the weight of nuclear proliferation in a world where irresponsible states and transnational actors seek to harm. With global population expected to nearly double over the course of this century, we know water and seaborne commerce—still the most cost effective transportation mode—will require modern ports and infrastructure. The energy and water jurisdiction is home to these objectives and many more. With this very serious procedural impediment, let us turn to the underlying tenets of the Energy and Water bill. When the Department of Energy was created in 1977, America was in the midst of a national energy crisis that morphed into an economic crisis. President Jimmy Carter set a goal for America to be energy independent by 1985. Biofuels had not come on stream. Today, this carbohydrate-based industry has literally turned the hydrocarbon molecule inside out, and now constitutes nearly 10% of the liquid fuel our nation consumes. Byproducts of farming and manufacturing are being scaled up to be transformed to natural gas. Photovoltaic energy was a distant dream in 1980. Today, First Solar, an Ohio launched company, is our nation’s leading solar firm. It is locked in fierce competition, hot on the heels of two Chinese firms that rank one and two globally. Solar power, a technology that has become cost competitive over 40 years through progressive research and development funding by the Department of Energy, will grow in the marketplace as converter and storage technology and integrated delivery systems are perfected. I can’t say enough about how exciting it is to see a new energy industry being born. Last year, solar represented 20 percent of new generation capacity—an astounding figure and a testament to how far the industry has progressed. Geothermal, wind, and other renewable technologies, paired with an effective smart grid modernization plan, will take their place along with conservation as part of our all-of-the-above energy strategy. For fossil fuels and coal in particular, our nation has more BTU’s underground in coal than the Middle East’s oil. The scientific challenge is to push research to unlock the power of hydrocarbons in a manner that doesn’t harm the atmosphere. Natural gas, thanks to advanced technology supported by the Department of Energy, is coming on more robustly than anyone could have predicted four decades ago. The U.S. is projected to become a net exporter by 2020. We are reminded of the power of energy to transform economies and entire political relationships, by looking no further than Europe’s unwise dependency on Russia for its natural gas; or the Middle East’s politics that ebb and flow with oil wars again unfolding before our eyes in real time. 40 years ago, containing our ballooning energy consumption topped the agenda—reducing our annual demand growth to less than 2 percent and reducing gasoline consumption by 10 percent. President Carter achieved both goals during his presidency. But while total energy consumption has grown only modestly since then, gasoline consumption increased by 40 percent in the 25 years after he left office. Under the current Administration, partnerships between the Energy Labs and automotive companies have finally helped us level out our demand for gasoline. American will become even more efficient. President Carter also laid out goals for energy efficiency and renewable energy—using solar in more than two and a half million homes and insulating 90 percent of all buildings. The 17.5 Gigawatts of solar electric capacity currently operating in the U.S. is enough to power more than 3.5 million average American homes and 90 percent of homes in the U.S. are now insulated. These are important milestones for our country. We must continue to push onward. Finally, on the critical issue of reducing foreign oil imports, President Carter’s initiative reduced imports below the target of 6 million barrels a day—a cut of nearly 1/3—but imports again went on the rise in subsequent decades. Today, we are still above 6 million barrels, but with President Obama's rigorous leadership in promoting more domestic drilling, oil imports continue to decline and America is once again producing overall more energy here at home than we import from abroad. The measure before us continues to advance energy innovation through the Science and ARPA-E accounts—respectively, slightly above and equal to 2015 funding. It is critical for the U.S. to surpass aggressive foreign competition on the energy frontier. However, the $266 million decrease in funding for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency is concerning and threatens to undercut the extraordinary strides our nation has made in recent years. After accounting for programmatic shifts, the Weapons programs are funded $750 million above the comparative level last year. The bill fully funds the life extension programs, but ensures that funding is contingent on the ability of the NNSA to meet Committee-directed reporting requirements in a timely manner. The equally important nonproliferation and cleanup portions of our nuclear program also receive increased funding. We must meet our responsibility to deter the threats of nuclear proliferation and clean up our nuclear legacy to minimize the burden passed on to future generations. The bill provides robust funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Investments in water infrastructure keep our ports open for global business and mitigate floods. The Corps is essential in helping our country adapt to the challenges of both water scarcity in our drought-stricken West and water insecurity due to toxic runoff in freshwater-rich regions like the Great Lakes. Specifically, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund dredging projects receive a much-needed increase as directed by WRDA—$73 million more than in 2015 and $263 million above the budget request. The bill also continues the prohibition of new starts. However, the Corps of Engineers’ $60 billion backlog and lack of responsiveness to Member requests to complete work remain concerning. Finally, it should be noted that several controversial and unnecessary riders threaten not only the ultimate enactment of this bill, but also our most precious resource: fresh water. Including these provisions is a disappointment and does a disservice in our work, particularly given the water challenges facing many parts of our country. While I have concerns with the measure before us, Mr. Chairman, I would like to reiterate my appreciation for your work with us on vast issues. You have ensured that the Energy and Water Subcommittee continues its tradition of bipartisanship. Our Members look forward to working with you and the members on both sides of the aisle to advance the process and complete the task before us. Thank you Mr. Chairman for the time.” ###
04.22.2015	Historic initiative puts unemployed and underemployed to work on environmental projects WASHINGTON—Today, on the morning of Earth Day, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) Act, a bill that would combat unemployment and preserve the environment by putting unemployed and underemployed citizens to work on critical environmental projects. Such projects would include reforestation, forest fire, flood and soil erosion prevention, eradication of invasive species and flora disease, blight removal of dead plant material and abandoned structures, construction and maintenance of paths, trails and fire-lanes, and any other environmental work deemed necessary. “At its heart, this legislation is about investing in America’s workers and our nation’s environmental treasures,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Time after time, these investments have paid off in the form of economic growth, healthy ecosystems, strong families and communities, and a thriving middle class. Rather than doubling down on wasteful and widely discredited top-down economics, this legislation restores the simple link between the work our nation needs to do and the people who are ready and eager to do it.” The CCC Act was inspired by a successful economic initiative called the Civilian Conservation Corps that was first established by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1933 as part of the New Deal. The initiative provided more than three million young men with jobs and skills training and inspired a widespread appreciation of the natural environment in American culture. “Earth Day is the perfect occasion to introduce this legislation,” Kaptur added. “We need to build a sustainable and lasting foundation for strong and healthy communities that create jobs and prosperity, all of which depends directly on the quality of our air, our water, our soil, the food that grows in it and the industries that build on it. This is not just about making a smart investment in the workers that drive our economic success, it is also about protecting and preserving majestic and nourishing places in the communities where we live and work. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this patriotic environmental and economic initiative.” No less than 80 percent of the CCC Act’s funds will be utilized for job creation and the Act will give preference to unemployed veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces. Work will be conducted on Federal and State land, but may be extended to private lands for public benefit, for example in the prevention of forest fires. This legislation was introduced with original co-sponsors Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-MI), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) and Rep. Mark Takai (D-HI). ###
04.21.2015	Public station is first ever located within National Wildlife Refuge System WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee, was on hand with officials from the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge today to mark Earth Week by inaugurating the first-ever electric vehicle power station within the National Wildlife Refuge System. The charging station is powered entirely by solar power and is the only charging station between Lorain and Toledo, Ohio. “This investment by the Wildlife Refuge System is forward thinking at its finest,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The officials at the Ottawa Wildlife Refuge are looking to the future and adapting. Their efforts here can serve as a model for our entire national park system, making investments in alternative energy that will be not only an environmental asset but also an economic one.” Kaptur has been an active voice on national energy issues and weighed in recently praising U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz and others for their work on the proposed Iran nuclear agreement framework. Earlier this year she hosted Secretary Moniz during his visit to Northern Ohio, connecting him with local manufacturers to help drive manufacturing innovation and investments in alternative energy in the region. ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON—Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur today introduced bipartisan legislation to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, which affected over a half million Ohioans last year. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This legislation will ensure that there is a coordinator at the EPA to work with the appropriate federal agencies and state, local, tribal and foreign governments to address this critical issue affecting the state of Ohio. “I am proud to introduce this legislation that will put a full time coordinator within the EPA to ensure our fresh water is safe from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “It is our duty as Ohioans to ensure that Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to thrive. Ohio’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state.” "The Great Lakes need our full time attention, so it only makes sense that we put someone on the job full time.” Rep. Joyce said "We are talking about drinking water for 40 million people, so we need to keep our eye on the ball. We can’t afford not take this step to ensure our Great Lakes are preserved and protected. “This legislation reflects the kind of long-term strategic planning necessary to track and prevent algal blooms now and in the future,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Assigning a point person not only ensures EPA takes responsibility for our federal algal bloom response, it creates accountability. This is especially important as we move into another algal bloom season and ramp up investments in algal bloom research, tracking and prevention initiatives. I am pleased to work with Representatives Ryan and Joyce to move this proposal forward and I strongly urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to adopt this simple and urgently-needed measure without delay.” This legislation has been endorsed by the Ohio Environmental Council, Freshwater Future, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, and the Ohio Charter Boat Association. "No community can afford to risk even a day without water because of toxic algae," said Kristy Meyer, Managing Director of Agricultural, Health & Clean Water Programs at the Ohio Environmental Council. "Congressman Ryan, Congressman Joyce and Congresswoman Kaptur are right to propose a coordinator within the EPA to coordinate federal, state, local, international, and tribal efforts to limit the loading of phosphorus and other excessive nutrients to our Great Lake waters." "We thank Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce, and Marcy Kaptur for introducing this important legislation to create a nutrient coordinator to help us solve the harmful algal crisis in Lake Erie. We applaud this bi-partisan effort to move us forward toward renewed Great Lakes health," said Jill Ryan, Executive Director for Freshwater Future. “Harmful algal blooms threaten the economy and quality of life for communities across the Great Lakes region. The Alliance for the Great Lakes appreciates the bi-partisan efforts of Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. David Joyce, and Rep. Marcy Kaptur to ensure that government agencies are coordinating to address this critical issue,” said Molly M. Flanagan, Vice President of Policy at the Alliance for the Great Lakes. “We thank Reps. Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur for introducing a bill that will strengthen our efforts at stopping farm runoff and harmful algal blooms. We’re seeing results through important efforts like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, but we know more needs to be done, which is why it’s essential we have an orchestra conductor who can ensure that resources are being invested in the most efficient and effective way possible,” said Chad Lord, policy director with the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition. “On behalf of the Lake Erie Charter Boat Association, we’d like to thank Representatives, Ryan, Joyce and Kaptur for their actions to create a Nutrient Coordinator position with the EPA. This position is the missing piece that is needed in the Great Lakes to coordinate the efforts being undertaken in the western Lake Erie basin, including ensuring the coordination and collating of monitoring data,” said Paul Pacholski, President of the Ohio Charter Boat Association. ###
04.21.2015	Bipartisan group urges expanded U.S. support for Ukraine following announcement of non-defensive aid WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressional Ukrainian Caucus co-chairs Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) released the following statement Tuesday regarding reports that the United States will supply Ukraine with nearly $18 million in aid to provide shelter, food vouchers, potable water and health and sanitation in regions affected by fighting between government forces and pro-Russia fighters: “The importance of providing humanitarian aid to the people caught in the middle of this fighting cannot be stressed enough. However, this aid is only treating the symptoms of a greater problem. The Government of Ukraine is in dire need of defensive weapons necessary to protect their borders and sovereignty. The defensive articles will help Ukraine to continue the process of economic and government reformsstarted at the Euromaidan.” Congress has, on multiple occasions, advocated for military aid to enhance the ability of the people of Ukraine to defend their sovereign territory from the unprovoked and continuing aggression of the Russian Federation. Additionally, Sec. of Defense Ashton Carter signaled his support for lethal aid during his confirmation hearing, saying, “We need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves… I am inclined in the direction of providing them with arms, including… lethal arms.” According to U.N. estimates, as many as 1.2 million Ukrainians have been uprooted due to the Russian-backed invasion to date. In February, Fitzpatrick, Levin and Kaptur marked the anniversary of Ukraine’s Maidan demonstrations with the introduction of a resolution calling for the United States to assist Ukraine with economic, social and governmental reform efforts; urging President Obama to immediately act on approved financial and defensive military aid; and encouraging Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko to continue anti-corruption efforts. ###
04.20.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Ann Keefe of Sierra Club, local government officials, environmental leaders and citizen water samplers held a water testing event today to mark the opening of the spring water testing season in the Maumee River watershed. The event featured a water testing demonstration on the Ottawa River at the University of Toledo’s campus and represented a collaboration of more than a dozen local groups. “The work being done by our citizen water samplers is imperative to the health of our greatest natural resource, Lake Erie,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This is a big job and we need everyone to do their part and help us protect this treasure for our environment and our region’s economy.” Trained citizens are asked to monitor a river or stream near them once each season. In Northwest Ohio, volunteer efforts are focused on the Maumee Bay Area of Concern, including the Maumee River and adjacent Lake Erie tributaries. The Water Sentinel Program provides free water monitoring kits, training, and sample analysis to participating groups and individuals. Sierra Club has suggested sites for volunteers to test and volunteers can suggest locations as well. Citizens willing to serve as Citizen Water Samplers can contact Ann Keefe at (419) 619-4436 or ann.keefe@sierraclub.org. “I would like to thank the Sierra Club and commend their partners including the City of Toledo, the University of Toledo, Bowling Green State University, Toledo Metroparks, the Olander Park System, Partners for Clean Streams, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources Scenic Rivers Program, Ohio EPA, and Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments. This broad group of collaborators shows what we can do when we come together to support the health of our greatest natural resource, Lake Erie,” Kaptur added. ###
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, along with Senators Rob Portman and Sherrod Brown and Representatives Bob Latta and David Joyce, sent a letter to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) calling for the agency to fund a new algal bloom warning system that uses satellite data to track toxic and nuisance algal blooms. “The importance of this program to our region, to the Great Lakes system as a whole, and many other places worldwide where water contaminants are a threat, substantiates this program’s timely renewal,” the letter reads. “We respectfully urge full funding and technical support to advance scientific understanding and drinking water protection through the Remote Sensing of Harmful Algal Blooms (HAB) in Lake Erie program.” Rep. Kaptur recently announced plans for a $3.6 million algal bloom early warning system using data and analysis from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Under the current plan, the NASA Glenn facility would provide approximately $1 million of the funding for this initiative. The letter calls for NASA to fund the algal bloom warning system at the national level, which would enable NASA Glenn to retain its funding for use on numerous other local projects. For example, the facility’s "Adopt a City" program matches “small and mid-size manufacturers with subject matter experts from NASA Glenn to help companies solve challenges they were experiencing with a new or existing product. NASA Glenn provided up to 40 hours of pro bono assistance to each company, the City of Cleveland and Cuyahoga County made low interest loans available to companies needing financial assistance, while MAGNET served as the project coordinator helping the following eight manufacturers in 2012.” ###
04.16.2015	Says “signing a blank check is not a responsible trade policy” WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur sounded a warning today following the introduction of legislation in the Senate that would give the President broad “Fast-Track” Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Since 1976, U.S. trade agreements have racked up a $9.5 trillion dollar U.S. trade deficit and contributed to the loss of 47,500,000 jobs. “Over the past four decades bad trade deals have brought millions of America’s working families to their knees,” said Kaptur. “These deals have outsourced millions of jobs and closed tens of thousands of U.S. manufacturing facilities, hobbled our economy and put the American Dream out of reach for countless working families. This is the legacy of U.S. trade. Yet even today trade fundamentalists in the House and Senate are pushing to give a free pass to global deals that would be even bigger and more dangerous. Signing a blank check is not a responsible trade policy, and would be devastating for working families in Ohio and throughout the country. I urge my colleagues to stand up for America’s workers and stop this madness now.” Earlier today, Rep. Kaptur took to the House floor to respond to news that the pending legislation would not include Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). “The American people need much more than just assistance for thousands more workers whose jobs will be outsourced by the Trans-Pacific Partnership,” she said. “America needs trade deals themselves to be adjusted‎ so they again create jobs in America, rather than suck them away to foreign shores. It’s time for us to stop outsourcing U.S. jobs.” ###
04.15.2015	Calls out TPA advocates for playing games with lives of working families WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur responded to news today that legislation giving the President sweeping Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), also known as “Fast Track”, will likely not include Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), a critical initiative supporting workers who lose their jobs due to trade and through no fault of their own. “Now begins the political maneuvering by Congress to force yet another job killing unfair trade deal on the American people,” said Kaptur. “The Senate is involved in a dangerous dance, looking for ways to advance legislation with no opportunity for amendments while pitting the jobs of America's workers against penny wage earners in Vietnam, Malaysia, and elsewhere. Bad trade deals have created untold poverty and human misery for workers and their families, both here in the U.S. and around the world. America’s working families are the backbone of this country and they deserve better.” TAA provides benefits to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade, including personalized training plans, on-the-job re-training and support for expenses incurred during the period of unemployment. According to the Department of Labor, approximately 140,000 workers have participated in TAA training over the past 5 years. In fiscal year 2012, 71% of the workers who participated in the program were re-employed. After six months, 91% remained on the job. “If these trade deals, or in fact any trade deals, were genuinely good for American workers, Trade Adjustment Assistance would not be necessary,” added Kaptur. “The need for this initiative should make it clear, at least to anyone who cares to look, that bad trade deals are devastating to America’s working families.We don’t just need trade adjustment, we need jobs.” Rep. Kaptur has gone to the House floor to oppose bad trade deals numerous times including a five-minute speechthis week during which she presented ample evidence of the economic, industrial, geopolitical and ethical harm done by past trade deals. This includes the Korea-U.S. FTA, which serves as a model for massive trade deals the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), both of which continue to be kept from the public. ###
04.15.2015	Subcommittee advances final language to full House Appropriations Committee WASHINGTON—The Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee voted today to advance the first of twelve annual spending bills for fiscal year 2016. Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur delivered opening remarks outlining priorities and assessing funding levels, which total $35.4 billion, in the final version. Thank you Chairman Simpson and all the Members of our subcommittee, especially those who joined us this year: Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Honda, and Ms. Roybal-Allard. We warmly welcome Ms. Granger, the newest member of our subcommittee. We also thank our Ranking Member of the full committee Mrs. Lowey for joining us, and the Chairman of the full committee Mr. Rogers. We are very proud that this is the first bill out of the chute, and I think as Energy and Water appropriators we’re very proud of this subcommittee and the work that we do. This bill funds incredibly important programs that can unlock America’s full economic potential, including: Advancing energy technologies to restore an energy self-reliant and secure America by developing inexhaustible energy supplies achieving a cleaner energy future, growing America’s domestic capabilities and reducing the insidious political and economic effects of energy sector trade deficits. We keep a focus on energy conservation and programs like weatherization and advancing manufacturing in a way that helps us be much more competitive economically. We have a focus in this bill also on modernizing our energy grid. Nothing could be more important from an economic or security standpoint. We also have a responsibility to modernize our water infrastructure to keep our ports open for business, to mitigate floods, and to help our country adapt to the challenges of both water scarcity in our drought-stricken West, and water insecurity due to toxic runoff in fresh-water rich regions like the Great Lakes. Cleaning up our nuclear legacy to minimize the burden passed onto future generations, deterring the threats of nuclear proliferation, and responsibly maintaining our nuclear weapons programs are all very important responsibilities. I was particularly proud of Secretary Moniz as a critical partner in the negotiations that are ongoing with the nation of Iran. We know this subcommittee and its interests on behalf of the country are central to the future. To be sure, this bill could be stronger, programs could be more fully funded, and the bill also includes some unnecessary and controversial policy riders. But ultimately, Chairman Simpson, it has been a pleasure to work with you and your staff who worked well under difficult circumstances. In particular, I would like to acknowledge Donna Shahbaz and thank her for her dutiful efforts on behalf of the country. This is her first markup as the Clerk of Energy and Water, working under tremendous time pressure and she displayed grace and dispatch the entire time. I also want to thank Taunja Berquam, our highly capable Democratic staff member, for her continued dedication and diligence and good humor throughout this entire process. During and after the mark-up, Rep. Kaptur extended discussion to address the need for increases in funding for science and environmental cleanup as well as the lack of funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to initiate new projects. Such projects represent an important investment in infrastructure and contribute to the availability of good jobs in communities in Ohio and across the nation. The approved text also includes an important provision secured by Rep. Kaptur to prohibit open lake disposal of dredged materials without priorstate certification. The bill now advances for consideration by the full House Appropriations Committee, which is expected to take up the legislation next week. ###
04.15.2015	New formula rewards quality of care instead of volume services WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur praised approval of H.R. 2 last night in the Senate. This bill updates the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) and ensures doctors and other healthcare providers are paid fairly for services they deliver under Medicare. This legislation also supports several community and child health initiatives. The bill now goes to the President, who has indicated that he intends to sign it into law. Rep. Kaptur issued the follow statement in response: “In 1997, Congress created the Sustainable Growth Rate, or SGR, to control healthcare costs by putting a cap on the rate that Medicare payments to doctors could go up. By 2003 America’s healthcare costs were outpacing that rate, leading to concerns that healthcare providers would stop serving Medicare patients. Every year since 2003, sometimes several times a year, Congress has passed stopgap bills to cover the difference and make sure doctors are paid fairly for services they provide under Medicare. Last night my colleagues in the Senate passed House-approved legislation to fix this problem permanently. It does this in part by amending the Medicare payment system so that it rewards doctors and other healthcare providers for the quality of care, rather than the volume of care, that they deliver to their patients. This landmark legislation also extends important community health initiatives, providing health insurance to children in need through the Children’s Health Insurance Program and supporting community health centers and the National Health Service Corps. This is great news for families across Northern Ohio that depend on Medicare to support an aging family member. It is welcome news for the healthcare industry, providing certainty to patients, doctors, hospitals and many others. It supports our region’s economy by helping ensure patients have access to preventative medicine. After decades of quick fixes and legislative band-aids, I am pleased and proud to be part of this bipartisan achievement. The improvements we expect to see in our nation’s healthcare system will be felt by working families and communities throughout Northern Ohio, improving the quality, access and reliability of care patients receive and helping keep the social safety net intact for ourselves, our loved ones and our neighbors who need it most.” ###
04.15.2015	Calls out bill advocates for policies that would harm Ohio homeowners WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur voted against legislation that passed in the House last night to raise interest rates on homeowners and expose many consumers to predatory lending practices that are currently prohibited by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). These Republican proposals, H.R. 650 and H.R. 685, would reclassify certain types of manufactured housing to allow real estate and financial services companies to push their customers into predatory and high-cost lending and insurance. “This legislation seeks to expose Americans to insidious and predatory lending practices that can lead to financial ruin and at times leave folks homeless,” said Kaptur. “Our national consumer protection agency prohibited these practices because they set customers up to fail and then leave them with no choice but to spend years fighting to regain control of debt and credit. These loans are not competitive and only continue to exist because consumers in Ohio and throughout the country are steered into them. Financial schemes like these have no place in a responsible marketplace. It is offensive that Republican lawmakers want to expose the poorest and most vulnerable Ohio and U.S. consumers to the unjust and unfair levels of risk that come with these loans and insurance policies.” CFPB originally set up current protections to solve a long-standing problem in the real estate industry in which realtors, mortgage brokers and financial institutions had a financial incentive to steer home buyers toward loans and title insurance coverage that would overcharge them. The Center for Public Integrity and The Seattle Times published a joint investigative article looking into a major provider of “higher-priced” loans of the type addressed by this legislation. It found “a consistent array of deceptive practices that locked [customers] into ruinous deals: loan terms that changed abruptly after they paid deposits or prepared land for their new homes surprise fees tacked on to loans; and pressure to take on excessive payments based on false promises that they could late refinance.” Opponents of one or both bills include Americans for Financial Reform, Consumer Federation of America, Center for Responsible Lending, National Consumer Law Center, NAACP, National Fair Housing Alliance, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Association of Independent Land Title Agents, the Center for Responsible Lending, Capital Impact Partners, Corporation for Enterprise Development, Fair Mortgage Collaborative, Housing Assistance Council, National Consumer Law Center and the National Manufactured Home Owners Association. The White House Statement of Administration Policy on this legislation states that the President’s senior advisors have recommended a presidential veto if the bills pass in both houses of Congress. ###
04.14.2015	Calls for commercial development of local food products supporting job creation TOLEDO, OH—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur toured the Northwest Ohio Cooperative Kitchen (NOCK) with local restaurateurs recently. The visit was intended to raise awareness about business services offered at the culinary incubator for bringing unique local food products to the broader commercial marketplace. Among those attending the session were culinary entrepreneurs specializing in African-American, Greek-American, and Polish American cuisine. "As our region considers how to create more jobs, turning local food recipes into products for the commercial marketplace makes a lot of sense,” said Kaptur. “Our area is a fertile source of ideas for foods that could be developed for commercial sale. Our cultural and ethnic diversity can be a real strength along these lines as well. Remember, new products mean new jobs.” The Northwest Ohio Kitchen, available through the generosity of the Hirzel family that owns Dei Fratelli branded products, has been advising culinary artists for years. The facility enables prospective commercial product developers at the start-up stage to use the fully equipped kitchen to make sample runs, can, pack, and label at very reasonable costs. Staff advisors from the Center for Innovative Food Technology also work with prospective product developers to properly prepare the product to be shelf ready. This includes labeling of ingredients and advising how to assure the product meets Food and Drug Administration quality standards. “Think about the many local products that already have been created and marketed to a broader audience from our region,” Kaptur added. “Packo's Pickles and Sauces, Vito's Pizza, Betty's dressing, Willy's Salsa, Christie's Candies, Barry's Bagels, Garlic Expressions, and Hungarian Noodles, to name just a few. Public demand for ethnic foods continues to rise. What better way to fill that market niche than from culinary specialists right here in our region." ###
04.14.2015	Highlights dangers of TPP for U.S. and N. Ohio communities, workers, economy WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur spoke out against the Trans-Pacific Partnership and so-called “Fast Track” Trade Promotion Authority on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning (video). Her prepared remarks: The American people are being kept in the dark about the Trans-Pacific Partnership. So much secrecy forces us to ask an important question: Have any of our past free trade agreements really been net positive for our nation and helped our workers? The answer is no. Since 1976, our country has lost 47.5 million jobs due to deficits resulting from free trade agreements. During that time, we have accumulated a trade deficit of more than $9.5 trillion dollars. These growing trade deficits, that outsource our wealth and weaken our economy, devastate communities. Carrying a massive trade deficit has hindered economic growth and limited our economic recovery by nearly 16 percent in the last year alone. More and more people are slipping from the middle class as a result, with inequality at its highest levels since the 1920s. Millions of Americans are losing faith in the possibility of upward mobility. Let us ask ourselves, what have past trade deals brought Americans? Since NAFTA, America has lost nearly five million manufacturing jobs--one out of every four--and more than 57,000 manufacturing facilities have closed. Washing machines that used to be made in Newton, IA, Maytag, now are imported from Mexico. Huffy bicycles that used to be made in Salina, OH are now imported from Asia. Ohio knows well the costs of Fast Track trade agreements that ship our good jobs and Made in the USA brands. Since NAFTA, our trade balance with Mexico and Canada has gone from a $5 billion annual surplus in 1993 to a deficit of $177 billion today. That translates into 750,000 more lost jobs. Quality of life for Americans has been declining under these agreements. Middle class America is shrinking. As businesses have closed and production has moved overseas, once thriving communities have become hollowed-out while wages for remaining workers drag in the face of constant downward pressure. Three out of every five displaced U.S. manufacturing workers have been forced to take a pay cut in order to secure a new job. One out of three experiences a pay cut of more than 20 percent. These are among the luckiest workers, as frequently these laid-off workers over the age of 40 can’t even find replacement work. This is not just a problem for America. Workers in other countries are affected too, contributing to unspeakable poverty and to waves of desperate immigration to the United States. Clearly NAFTA was a failure for American workers. After just three years in effect, the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement has been similarly disastrous. Its supporters promised that the agreement would create 70,000 new American jobs. In fact, more than 75,000 jobs have been lost due to our $14.7 billion, and growing, trade deficit with Korea. U.S. exports to Korea have fallen by 7.5 percent during that time. The Korean agreement was hailed as a wonderful opportunity for the American economy, something that we just couldn’t pass-up. We have heard this same line and been told the same tale for every new free trade agreements. We’re hearing it now with TPP. Yet the numbers tell us a different story. In 2014, the U.S. imported 1,288,546 vehicles from Korea while we exporting 34,186. This does not just mean lost profits for the U.S. auto industry, it means fewer jobs, lower wages and declining opportunity for America’s middle class. The Korean FTA has been a failure for American workers too. With TPP negotiations continuing to advance, America should ask: could this possibly be a good deal for American workers? We already have colossal trade deficits with Malaysia, Vietnam, and Japan – prospective TPP partners use protectionism and currency manipulation to gain unfair advantages, and in some cases fail to regulate appalling labor conditions. These nations will not deliver on the promises made in support of TPP. History should teach us, we need a new trade model. America doesn’t need more job outsourcing trade deals. The executive branch and specifically the National Security Council needs to pay attention to the harm it causes when it forgets the undue harm its trade policies have caused in America. For the past 21 years, we have watched NAFTA wreak havoc on our economy. Our workers don’t need more false promises, and we already know these deals do not benefit America’s working families. There is no credible reason to think the Trans-Pacific Partnership will be any better, and we have a duty to our constituents and middle class families throughout the country to stop this deal in its tracks. The American people are asking for a new trade model that creates jobs and economic growth in our country again. ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur secured language in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill released today to block the use of federal funds from being used for open lake dumping of dredged materials. Rep. Kaptur is Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee and a co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This language sends a clear message that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers must come to the table with real solutions,” said Kaptur. “Millions depend on Lake Erie for drinking water and the fishing industry here sustains thousands of jobs. Open lake dumping threatens our most precious resource and the many who rely on it. This practice cannot continue, especially when Congress has already provided the funds needed to do this work.” The language recently inserted in the appropriations bill reads: “Sec. 108.No funds in this act shall be used for an open lake placement alternative of dredged material, after evaluating the least costly, environmentally acceptable manner for the disposal or management of dredged material originating from Lake Erie or tributaries thereto, unless it is approved under a state water quality certification pursuant to 33 USC 1341.” Funding has been appropriated previously for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to fully dredge the Cuyahoga River and Port of Cleveland. ###
04.07.2015	Multi-agency effort will provide early detection to state and local agencies WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur responded to an announcement today that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) will launch a $3.6 million initiative that will use satellite data to provide an early warning system for toxic and nuisance algal blooms. Information will be provided to state and local agencies that can use the information to coordinate responses and issue public health advisories. “The water conditions that our region faced last summer showed major weaknesses in our early detection and response systems for algal blooms,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Early detection and good information can make a big difference for decision-makers on the ground that need to coordinate an effective response to this kind of emergency. Systems like this can help deliver that information to decision-makers and to the public quickly. Combining this satellite imagery with targeted water testing will help keep our communities safe. I am pleased that NOAA, NASA, USEPA and USGS will collaborate on this project.” Treatment of U.S. fresh water degraded by algal blooms costs an estimated $64 million every year with additional costs associated with the loss of water recreation and a decline in waterfront real estate values. In August 2014, officials in Toledo, Ohio, banned the use of drinking water supplied to more than 400,000 residents after it had been contaminated by an algal bloom in Lake Erie. The first step in this five-year project will be creating a reliable, standard method for identifying cyanobacteria blooms in U.S. freshwater lakes and reservoirs using ocean color satellite data. Several satellite data sets will be evaluated and tested against environmental data from these water bodies. According to NOAA, Ocean color satellite data are currently accessible to scientists but are not generally converted into formats that could be used by state and local water quality managers. This data will also be deliverable to the public through mobile devices and web portals. The project is also expected to improve overall understanding of the environmental causes and health effects of cyanobacteria and other algal blooms. Satellite data allows for more frequent observations over broader areas than water sampling alone. The data also supports NOAA’s existing harmful algae forecasting systems in the Gulf of Mexico and Great Lakes. Researchers will also compare the new freshwater algal bloom satellite data with satellite records of land cover changes over time to look at which land-use activities may have caused environmental changes linked to the frequency and intensity of observed blooms. The results will help to develop better forecasts of bloom events. “Observing harmful algae is critical to understanding, managing, and forecasting these blooms,” said Holly Bamford, Ph.D., acting assistant secretary of commerce for conservation and management, and deputy NOAA administrator. “This collaboration will assure that NOAA’s efforts will assist the coastal and inland public health officials and managers across the country to distribute this information to the community in an easily understandable fashion, making them more resilient to environmental events.” “EPA researchers are developing important scientific tools to help local communities respond quickly and efficiently to real-time water quality issues and protect drinking water for their residents,” said EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. “Working with other federal agencies, we are leveraging our scientific expertise, technology and data to create a mobile app to help water quality managers make important decisions to reduce negative impacts related to harmful algal blooms, which have been increasingly affecting our water bodies due to climate change.” “Harmful algal blooms have emerged as a significant public health and economic issue that requires extensive scientific investigation,” said Suzette Kimball, acting USGS director. “USGS uses converging lines of evidence from ground to space to assess changes in water quantity and quality, ecosystems, natural hazards, and environmental health issues important to the nation.” “The vantage point of space not only contributes to a better understanding of our home planet, it helps improve lives around the world,” said NASA Administrator Charles Bolden. “We’re excited to be putting NASA’s expertise in space and scientific exploration to work protecting public health and safety.” “Observations from space-based instruments are an ideal way to tackle this type of public health hazard because of their global coverage and ability to provide detailed information on material in the water, including algal blooms,” added Paula Bontempi of NASA’s earth science division. This project also includes a research component to improve understanding of the environmental causes and health impacts of cyanobacteria and phytoplankton blooms across the United States. Blooms in lakes and estuaries result from aquatic plants receiving excess nutrients from watershed runoff, as well as other environmental conditions such as temperature and light. Some land uses, such as urbanization or modernized agricultural practices, change the amount of nutrients and sediment delivered in watersheds, which can influence cyanobacterial growth. Researchers will compare the new freshwater algal bloom satellite data with satellite records of land cover changes over time to look at which land-use activities may have caused environmental changes linked to the frequency and intensity of observed blooms. The results will help to develop better forecasts of bloom events. ###
04.03.2015	Ukraine Caucus Co-Chair Leads Call for International Coalition, Defensive Aid to Ukraine WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus in the House of Representatives, was featured recently on Ukrainian national media outlets Ukraine Today and TSN.ua (video) calling for the U.S. to deliver additional defensive aid to Ukraine and push for greater NATO involvement in the region. “The most effective weapon against Russian aggression is the unity of the free world,” Kaptur said during the interview. “That includes all of Europe, the United States and our allies in other places like Australia and New Zealand. Freedom-loving nations everywhere have to stand at Ukraine’s side now.” “I think time is growing very short,” she added. Rep. Kaptur has repeatedly praised the Obama administration for delivering defensive aid to Ukraine, particularly since passage of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act, including the recently initiated shipment of non-lethal aid worth $75 million that includes 200 U.S. Humvees, radios, counter-mortar radars and other equipment. The House of Representatives recently passed a resolution by a bipartisan vote of 348-48 calling on the President to provide additional defensive aid to Ukraine without delay. During the interview Rep. Kaptur highlighted additional steps she has taken with Congress to encourage the President to rush assistance to Ukraine. “This morning I signed another letter with all of my colleagues on the Defense Appropriations Committee to the President asking him to advance the schedule, whatever schedule he has in his mind, to act with dispatch now.” Rep. Kaptur was also featured on the cover of Ukrainian Chicago magazine (full text) recently over the headline “A True Friend of Ukraine: Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur.” “The people of Ukraine want to be free,” Kaptur said. “They want to be an open society. Why wouldn’t we want to help them?” “This will go down in history as a pivotal moment in Ukraine’s progress towards liberty,” she added. “It is a most somber moment, but generations to come will remember this moment and will bow down to those who have shed their blood for freedom.” Ukrainian Chicago Reporter Olga Tymouch noted: “The Congresswoman’s work on Ukraine’s behalf has been continuous over the years. In recognition of her constant support, Congresswoman Kaptur received a personal thank-you from Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko during her last visit to Ukraine in March.” ###
04.03.2015	Ranking Member on House Appropriations Energy Subcommittee praises deal, says “Don’t Trust, Verify” WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the U.S. nuclear weapons program, issued the following statement in response to news that Iran and the P5+1 nations agreed to a framework for Iranian nuclear disarmament: “President Barack Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry, and Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz are to be heralded for their leadership in pursuing negotiations with Iran, in concert with the other P5 +1 nations of China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany, that seek to block Iran's pathways to producing nuclear weapons. In evaluating the framework presented, our nation must be guided by President Ronald Reagan's admonishment: "Trust but Verify." An even better saying for this deal would be "don't trust, verify." “Iran has consistently violated international nuclear non-proliferation conventions. The apparent progress made in this recent negotiation should ensure Iran's compliance with the International Atomic Energy Agency's Safeguards Agreement, which it has violated regularly since 1982. Any new agreement must also meet the goals of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, keeping nuclear weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists. Both objectives remain top defense priorities of all peaceful nations.” “Details of the new agreement framework will now be evaluated by Members of Congress, other nuclear experts, and the public at large to assess their effectiveness. Additional work on incomplete provisions still needs to be done to finalize this agreement by June 30. It is important to recall that these negotiations with Iran began in 2006; recent progress in this accord is welcome but the job is not yet done.” “This framework holds the promise of significantly reducing both Iran's uranium enrichment pathways at Natanz and Fordo, and its plutonium capability at its Arak reactor. Under the terms of this framework, Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium will also be reduced by 98 percent. These are significant steps and will increase Iran’s breakout time for developing a nuclear weapon from a few months to a full year. Still, questions remain, for example, regarding the extent of Iran's future centrifuge development efforts and capabilities.” “It is critical that the final agreement reflect the strict oversight and reporting standards outlined in this framework, particular for nuclear materials transport, nuclear experiments, and nuclear facilities' construction. Further any final agreement must include measures blocking any covert development. "The United States and its allies seek a world safe from nuclear terror. All civilized people must work toward that end. And to that goal as well America pledges its full strength and commitment.” ###
04.01.2015	NSF award supports applied research to develop algae as viable source for alternative fuels TOLEDO, OH—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) Division of Industrial Innovation and Partnerships (IIP) will award $199,997 to support an algal biomass research project at the University of Toledo (UT). This project will advance research and develop possible commercial applications of a low-cost product called a “hydrogel” that would make it easier and more efficient to grow and harvest algae for use in the production of alternative fuels. "Applied research has been a proven tool for our region, turning good science into innovative products that can support job growth, new business development, even allow for the creation of brand new markets here,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This project is a perfect example. Algae could be a major source for biomass fuel development but the costs of growing and processing it have been too high. This project sets out to solve both problems by creating a product that grows algae safely and efficiently and streamlining the process for harvesting it for conversion into fuel. I applaud the University of Toledo research team and the Industrial Innovation and Partnerships Division at NSF for pursuing this insightful and promising research.” Project director Sridhar Viamajala, Associate Professor in the Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering at UT, described the project’s importance: “Low-cost technologies for harvesting algae are currently a major bottleneck in the commercial production of fuels from microalgae. This method of harvesting algal biomass using stimuli-sensitive hydrogels could be cost and energy efficient. It also allows for effective recycling of water and unused nutrients, which is critical for environmental sustainability of biofuels.” Steven E. LeBlanc, Interim Dean of the College of Engineering at UT, added: “This project by Dr. Viamajala involves innovative technology that could represent a breakthrough in the cost-effective use of algae as source of raw materials for the production of alternative fuels.” Commercial production of algae-based biomass fuels has been limited by a lack of low-cost technologies for algae harvesting. This project supports development of a product called a hydrogel that encourages more concentrated algal growth that makes it cheaper and easier to remove cultivated algae from water without the use of added chemicals. Projects funded through NSF’s IIP Division are often organized as public-private partnerships supporting commercial development of applied research, especially for use by small businesses. The Division targets projects with the potential for technological innovation with “high impact in meeting national and societal needs. To achieve this goal, IIP focuses on leveraging federal, small business, industrial, university, state and community college resources.” ###
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, longstanding member of the Congressional Steel Caucus and an outspoken fair trade advocate, issued the following statement today following an announced agreement that the Congressional Steel Caucus and U.S. steel industry would not support a trade agenda that does not protect U.S. producers from unfair competition from imports, including “Fast Track” approval under Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “Just in the past few weeks, nearly one thousand U.S. steel workers have lost their jobs in Lorain, Ohio. These job losses are tied directly to bad trade deals that drive unfair competition and encourage dumping of inferior products into the U.S. marketplace while leaving many foreign markets closed to U.S. exports. I strongly support the decision by U.S. steel industry leaders and the Congressional Steel Caucus to oppose any effort to push TPP through Congress or enact TPA to restrict any amendment or debate on the deal. Instead let us revisit the past trade deals that have exploded our trade deficit and correct the problems of the past before we even consider passing new global trade deals.” “It would be unconscionable to move forward with a massive global trade deal without allowing Congress to read the terms negotiated in full. I will not support a trade deal that cannot be amended to protect the rights of American workers and consumers, and that must be voted on in a severely limited period of time. Taking the decision out of the hands of Congress in this way is a recipe for more of the same bad trade deals that will continue to drive jobs overseas and suppress the wages of our workers and their families.” ###
03.27.2015	HHS NIH award supports health research to be conductedby students and faculty WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced today that the University of Toledo has been awarded $367,275 in federal support to investigate nocturnin, a chemical in the body that may affect sleep cycles and changes in weight. The award will come through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) National Institutes of Health (NIH) Academic Research Enhancement Awards (AREA) initiative under the Extramural Research Program of the National Institute of General Medical Sciences. "Federal recognition of University of Toledo research capabilities is welcome news for our region, especially as we grow our reputation as a medical and pharmaceutical center of scientific excellence,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The work being done on this project could change the way we understand important aspects of body chemistry and, over time, change the way we live and work. I applaud the University of Toledo student and faculty research team involved in this project for their commitment, and HHS and NIH for their support." Dr. John Bellizzi, the UT assistant professor of chemistry who directs the project, said, “Studying the biochemical reaction catalyzed by nocturnin and growing crystals to allow us to determine the three-dimensional structure of the nocturnin molecule will help us understand how it carries out its cellular functions. This award will provide critical support not only for carrying out our experiments, but also for the training of UT graduate and undergraduate students in the techniques of protein biochemistry and X-ray crystallography.” “Dr. Bellizzi’s work is an example of the many ways that scientists from the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at the University of Toledo are using fundamental scientific expertise and techniques to investigate real world issues,” added Dr. Karen Bjorkman, Dean of the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at the University of Toledo. “Projects like these also provide great opportunities for our students to be involved, helping to develop the next generation of scientists.” “Dr. Bellizzi is conducting fundamental research to advance our understanding of how our bodies metabolize fat differently depending on the time of day,” said Dr. Bill Messer, Vice President of Research at the University of Toledo. “With this grant award and UT’s exceptional facilities in the field of X-ray crystallography, Dr. Bellizzi and his research team will study the chemical structure of nocturnin for a better understanding of how the enzyme works. This research could provide important insights that lead to new approaches to treating diabetes and other metabolic disorders.” Projects funded through AREA are generally small-scale health-related research projects proposed by faculty members of eligible domestic institutions. The initiative was created to stimulate research in higher education settings, and to promote research that increases understanding of biological processes and supports advances in disease diagnosis, treatment and prevention. ###
03.26.2015	Projects supported will help mitigate threats caused by erosion and runoff WASHINGTON—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, who co-chairs the House Great Lakes Task Force, praised officials at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for awarding $6,058,721 in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) funding to help undo the harmful effects of erosion and runoff in Lake Erie and its tributaries. “These projects reflect a growing awareness throughout our region and at all levels of government that we must take Great Lakes stewardship seriously,” said Kaptur. “This funding supports critical restoration work that will mitigate and in some cases undo significant damage caused by erosion and runoff in our region. I applaud the U.S. EPA for its continued engagement and foresight in funding these urgently-needed projects and in supporting the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.” Lake Erie supports an estimated 120,000 jobs in Northern Ohio and generates upwards of $1.7 billion in total tax revenue. More than 3 million Ohio residents depend on Lake Erie for their drinking water. Tourism in the region accounts for approximately $12.9 billion in retail sales and $3.3 billion in employee wages. The Great Lakes fishery is the most valuable freshwater commercial fishery in the world valued at $7 billion. Projects in Ohio’s 9th Congressional District included in this round of GLRI funding: Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ($3,696,182) will retire 270 acres of cropland, restore six miles of streams, stabilize 1,000 feet of eroding stream banks and restore 70 acres of wetlands at eight locations in the Maumee River watershed to prevent phosphorus from entering Lake Erie. The Stewardship Network ($745,000) will work with partners to provide farmers in the River Raisin watershed with technical assistance on best practices to prevent nutrient runoff and soil erosion into the river and Lake Erie. Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ($689,060) will expand agricultural conservation practices to 8,000 acres of cropland in five northern Ohio watersheds that flow into the Sandusky River. The project will reduce nutrient runoff and soil erosion into Lake Erie. Two additional projects are located outside the district but will address runoff and erosion concerns passing through the district into Lake Erie. They include the following: Western Reserve Land Conservancy ($750,000) will purchase 1,000 acres of easements in northern Ohio’s Grand River watershed -- protecting five miles of streams and 400 acres of wetland -- to reduce nutrient runoff and soil erosion that impacts Lake Erie. Chagrin River Watershed Partners Inc. ($178,479) will partner with the City of Wickliffe, Ohio, and Cleveland Metroparks on a project to restore 640 feet of streams and wetlands in the Deer Creek/Gully Brook watershed. The project will reduce soil erosion and the quantity of nutrients and streambed sediment entering the Chagrin River and Lake Erie. The EPA has funded more than 700 Great Lakes restoration and protection projects totaling over $570 million since 2010. So far this year the program has awarded $25 million to fund 29 projects. For more information about the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, visit https://greatlakesrestoration.us. ###
03.26.2015	Legislation would strengthen worker protections and help stop gender-based wage discrimination WASHINGTON–Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) announced she has signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which was reintroduced yesterday by the bill’s sponsor Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT). The legislation would help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs by closing an existing loophole in the Equal Pay Act of 1963. On average, women make just 78 cents for every dollar made by a man doing the same job. “Equal work should earn equal pay, and our decades-long failure to reach that common sense standard is an issue that affects millions of working families,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This is especially true for households that depend on a mother, grandmother, sister or daughter for financial support. Unequal pay is not just wrong, it is bad for these families, bad for communities, bad for the economy and bad for business. We need enforceable standards that ensure equal work receives equal pay, which this bill would provide.” “Equal pay is not just a problem for women, but for families who are trying to pay their bills, trying to get ahead, trying to achieve the American Dream, and are getting a smaller paycheck than they have earned for their hard work,” said Rep. DeLauro. “The Paycheck Fairness Act will help the Equal Pay Act fulfill its intended objective, offer real protections to ensure equal pay for equal work, and see that women are paid the same as the other half of our nation’s workforce for the same job.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds on the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by closing loopholes that have kept it from achieving its goal of equal pay. The bill would require employers to prove pay disparity is related to job performance, not gender. In addition, it establishes a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills, and requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. The bill also prohibits employer retaliation against sharing salary information with coworkers, protections that were not available under previous statutes. In addition, it strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by allowing women to seek both back pay and punitive damages for pay discrimination. President Obama’s first bill, signed into law on January 29, 2009, was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which overturned the 180-day statute of limitations for women to contest pay discrimination. This legislation has been reintroduced during Women’s History Month, paying homage to generations of women who have led the charge on rights for American workers throughout U.S. history. The Paycheck Fairness Act would close the loopholes that allow pay discrimination to continue in the first place and, with Ledbetter, provide employees the rights they need to challenge and eliminate pay discrimination in the workplace. This bill has been endorsed by President Obama, Lilly Ledbetter and a coalition of more than 300 advocacy groups. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to news that Republic Steel plans to temporarily lay off 200 hourly and salaried employees in their Lorain Hot End Operations facility: “These layoffs are a terrible blow to two hundred workers, their families and the Lorain community. Declining demand, the biggest reason given for these layoffs, often starts with unfair competition from imports of cheaply made foreign competitors. That is why I continue to fight for fair trade with enforceable labor and environmental standards for every U.S. trade agreement, old and new. I have said it many times: our steel workers in Lorain and throughout the country deserve better. And we must do better for them. To do that, we will need to open closed foreign markets and keep investing in manufacturing for long-term U.S. global competitiveness. Investing in infrastructure using domestically sourced steel is step one. High quality steel, which will last for generations, must be used. Improving the efficiency and self-sufficiency of manufacturing facilities is also a priority that will require upgrades to achieve energy savings, especially as advanced manufacturing revitalizes our domestic production including U.S. Steel. Workforce development and Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) must be available to respond to the specific needs of communities and workers laid off by no fault of their own but who find themselves and their families on the brink. I am encouraged that Republic Steel is working with local USW leadership to minimize this round of layoffs, and that this move is described as temporary. Let us not forget that U.S. Steelworkers have done everything ever asked of them. Their outstanding work ethic built this country. Now our country must fulfill its commitment to them. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Last night, House Auto Caucus co-chairs Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA), vice co-chairs Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI) and Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), other members of the Congressional Auto Caucus and leaders from the Auto Alliance, Global Automakers and other major industry groups, officially launched the House Auto Caucus for the 114th Congress. “The auto industry is part of everyday life for millions of working families throughout the U.S.” said Rep. Kaptur. “We have a responsibility to protect and support this critical industry, which means taking an active role in international diplomacy and the global marketplace. The work before us in this Congress includes fighting for an active role in ongoing trade negotiations to make sure they benefit our auto industry, and driving policy efforts that will position America to lead the world in manufacturing innovation. That is why this Caucus is so important, and I am thrilled to see so many Caucus Members and industry leaders come together around an issue that is so critical for our nation’s working families.” “I’ve been a car guy all my life,” said Rep. Kelly. “My dad was a parts picker in a GM warehouse after World War II, who then began an automobile business that has now spanned three generations. I know what cars mean to our country, to our communities, and to our economy. For the sake of millions of jobs, drivers, and families, our bipartisan caucus will be devoted to making the American automotive industry as strong and vibrant as it can possibly be. Together, my co-chair Rep. Kaptur and I are ready to demonstrate that teamwork can still make a difference in Washington for the good of our entire country. Last night’s kick-off celebration was surely a sign of great success to come.” “Michigan is the birthplace of the automotive industry and the state that put the world on wheels. Today, our state produces more vehicles than any other state in the country, and our domestic auto industry supports hundreds of thousands of good-paying manufacturing and supplier jobs. I am excited to be a Vice Chair of the Congressional Auto Caucus and look forward to working with Democrats and Republicans in Congress to promote our automotive industry and its workers, who continue to drive our economy and build world-class automobiles that are sold all around the world,” Congressman Kildee said. “The auto industry is a vital part of our national economy, employing millions of hardworking Americans throughout the United States. In the third district, we are fortunate to house the nation’s top Volkswagen plant, which created 2,000 new jobs in East Tennessee over the past year. In addition, the booming auto parts industry in our district helps fuel our local community and our national economy. These manufacturers not only produce jobs, but they also promote innovation and competitiveness. As a member of the Auto Caucus, I am working with my colleagues to encourage auto manufacturing and expand this industry. The economic impact of the auto industry is powerful, and we must do all we can to support automakers and their hardworking employees,” said Rep. Fleischmann. Mitch Bainwol, CEO of the Auto Alliance, said: “It is a great honor to help kick-off the Auto Caucus and welcome everyone to the 114th Congress. The Auto Caucus plays a key role in the exchange of information between the auto industry and policy makers on Capitol Hill. As we continue to achieve greater advancements in safety, technology and fuel economy, it is vital that we educate and work with our friends and colleagues both on and off the Hill.” “The landscape of the U.S. auto industry of 2015 looks vastly different than it did even 10 years ago,” said John Bozzella, President & CEO of the Association of Global Automakers. “We are excited about the reinvigoration of the House Auto Caucus to help tell this story, and look forward to continuing our work together to ensure that we maintain the balance of consumer choice and economic viability.” The U.S. auto industry employs an estimated 7.25 million U.S. workers with 2.44 million automaker jobs, 3.16 million auto supplier jobs and 1.65 million auto dealer jobs. In 2014, manufacturers contributed $2.09 trillion to the U.S. economy, account for 12% of U.S. GDP. The auto industry alone accounted for an estimated $950 billion added to thenation’s economy each year. In Ohio alone, the auto industry accounts for an estimated 629,178 jobs, equivalent to 11.0% of the state’s labor force. That places Ohio among the national leaders in auto industry labor participation. Created in 1983, the House Auto Caucus has a long history of reaching across the aisle to promote a strong and vibrant American automotive industry. Supported by a diverse group of automotive associations, the House Auto Caucus will continue the tradition of working with industry stakeholders to educate Capitol Hill policy makers and advance a legislative agenda that encourages an innovative, competitive, and growing automotive sector. Representative Kaptur was recognized at the event as the first women to chair the House Auto Caucus. The House Congressional Auto Caucus currently has 59 Members including Reps. Aderholt, Barr, Beyer, Mo Brooks, Susan Brooks, Carney, Carson, Clay, Connolly, Conyers, Deutch, Dingell, Eshoo, Esty, Farenthold, Fleischmann, Foster, Goodlatte, Higgins, Honda, Huizenga, Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Bill Johnson, Joyce, Kaptur, Mike Kelly, Kennedy, Kildee, LaMalfa, Latta, Lawrence, Levin, Loebsack, Messer, Candice Miller, Napolitano, Perlmutter, Perry, Peters, Posey, Roby, Mike Rogers, Rokita, Ryan, Schrader, Sewell, Slaughter, Speier, Stivers, Bennie Thompson, Titus, Upton, Walberg, Waters, Westmoreland, Williams, Joe Wilson, and Yoder. ###
03.23.2015	Bipartisan resolution calls on White House to provide Ukraine with military assistance to defend its sovereignty, territorial integrity WASHINGTON—Congressional Ukraine Caucus co-chairs Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) joined the House Monday in passing a bipartisan resolution, H.Res. 162, calling on President Obama to immediately provide arms and defensive aid to Ukraine. “Last year, Congress and the administration united behind the bipartisan Ukraine Freedom Support Act in response to the hostilities in Ukraine. The legislation solidified American support for a free and democratic Ukraine, as well as authorized the president to provide the Ukrainian government with much needed financial and defensive aid. However, as Russian aggression continues unabated, the defensive aid we promised has failed to reach Ukraine,” said Fitzpatrick. “America cannot retreat from its promises to allies, such as Ukraine, which dismantled its Cold War-era nuclear armaments in favor of democracy and international participation. If we fail to respond to Russian aggression in Ukraine, the signal to Moscow and other nations will be clear: Anyone can act contrary to international law and democratic aspirations without fear of repercussions.” “Now more than ever, the United States needs to stand with Ukraine by providing defensive weapons to help Ukraine counter Russian aggression and move past the current crisis,” said Levin. “We should provide defense provisions, such as anti-tank weapons, counter-artillery radars, and ammunition to counter Russia-backed separatists. In doing so, we show solidarity with the Ukrainian people who have demonstrated their willingness to do their part, and we make it more difficult for Russia to wage a proxy war against Ukraine while publicly denying it.” “As leaders of the free world, the United States holds a solemn obligation to stare down tyranny and to advance liberty,” said Kaptur. “In 1993, with assurances from the United Kingdom, the United States and Russia, Ukraine signed the Budapest Memorandum and agreed to give up its nuclear weapons. The signatories pledged aid should Ukraine’s securityever be threatened. These promises mean something. International treaties mean something. We should make good on our word and provide the people and government of Ukraine with the support they need to defend themselves. It is good foreign policy and in the interest of the United States to help a free nation resist the territorial aggression of a long-standing oppressor. Ukraine is the ultimate example of young democracy and liberty in Eastern Europe. These values have endured throughout Ukraine’s troubled history and they exist with a renewed fervor today. As a beacon of freedom, the United States must stand in solidarity with democratic principles and institutions around the world. Ukraine’s potential is boundless—let us extend a hand in her hour of need.” The resolution, introduced by House Foreign Affairs Committee ranking member Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), urges the President to fully exercise the authorities already provided by Congress to deliver Ukraine with lethal defensive weapon systems. Congress has, on multiple occasions, advocated for military aid to enhance the ability of the people of Ukraine to defend their sovereign territory from the unprovoked and continuing aggression of the Russian Federation. Additionally, new Sec. of Defense Ashton Carter signaled his support for lethal aid during his confirmation hearing, saying, “We need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves… I am inclined in the direction of providing them with arms, including… lethal arms.” In February, Fitzpatrick, Levin and Kaptur marked the anniversary of Ukraine’s Maidan demonstrations with the introduction of a similar resolution calling for the United States to assist Ukrainewith economic, social and governmental reform efforts; urging President Obama to immediately act on approved financial and defensive military aid; and encouraging Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko to continue anti-corruption efforts. ###
03.23.2015	Room filled to capacity as leaders researchers and innovators seek solutions to water concerns TOLEDO, OH—More than 120 small business owners, researchers and others came out to the“Lake Erie Water Technology Business Summit” this morning hosted by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and Senator Sherrod Brown with representatives from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Cleveland District Office of the U.S. Small Business Administration. “Entrepreneurs, small business owners and researchers play an important role in finding solutions to major public problems, such as the watershed and water treatment issues we are dealing with currently,” said Kaptur.“Our goal today was to connect these local leaders with services that can help them find practical applications for their work. This kind of partnership is critical for fostering good science, which has proven to be our best tool in pursuing lasting solutions to these problems.” The event included a discussion of federal and state programs that could help small business owners, researchers or other stakeholders to develop and bring a new product or technology to market, including efforts to find and implement solutions to Lake Erie water issues. The discussion also covered nutrient management solutions for the Western Lake Erie Basin for farmers, agribusinesses and municipalities, including a presentation by EPA’s AgSTAR bio-energy program, a research and educational partnership between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. Department of Energy. ###
03.23.2015	Highlights figures for Toledo and Cleveland areas, positive impact for working families TOLEDO, OH—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced new health insurance enrollment numbers this morning for the Toledo and Cleveland areas, marking the five-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), more than 10,496 people have signed up for health care coverage on the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Marketplace in Toledo and the surrounding area. In the Cleveland-Elyria local area, 47,388 consumers selected or were automatically enrolled in a health insurance plan. “In the five years since its adoption, working families have seen significant benefits from the federal health care law,”said Kaptur. “Thousands of Ohio’s working families qualify for income-based tax credits under the law, making health insurance affordable for them for the first time. Many of those families are now protected from bankruptcy in the event of a tragic health event. Workers can no longer be dropped from the health insurance they paid for on the basis of a pre-existing condition. Young people are able to stay on their parents’ plans for longer, making their transition to full employment more manageable even during tough economic times. These policies represent nothing less than life-support for thousands of working families across Ohio and millions throughout the U.S. I am pleased to continue supporting them and am baffled that my Republican colleagues continue to work so hard to undermine them.” In Ohio, 234,341 consumers selected plans or were automatically re-enrolled in health insurance coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace as of Feb. 22, with most enrollees receiving an average of $244 in tax credit support. Eight out of ten Ohioans could select a Marketplace plan for $100 or less per month. As a result of the ACA, the 5 million Ohioans with a pre-existing health condition can no longer be denied health care coverage. Millions of Americans, and almost 3 million Ohioans, who already had insurance have seen coverage improve with new access to preventive services like vaccines, cancer screenings, and yearly wellness visits at no out-of-pocket cost. Since the ACA allows young adults to stay on their parents’ plan until they turn 26, 97,000 young adults in Ohio gained coverage. This progress comes while projected costs of the law are consistently revised down, largely due to historically low rate of increase in average premiums. “These historic enrollment numbers show that the American people know the ACA is working for them,” said US Dept. of Health and Human Services Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk. “Thanks to the ACA, people can no longer be denied health insurance because of a preexisting condition, healthcare spending is increasing at the lowest rate in 50 years, and people no longer need to worry about being one illness away from bankruptcy.” For more information about health insurance enrollment in Ohio, including qualifications for enrollment outside of the open enrollment period, visit www.areyoucoveredohio.org. For additional information or to schedule an interview with the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Region V Director Kathleen Falk, please call 312-226-1788 or e-mail lauren.eiten@hhs.gov. ###
03.21.2015	TOLEDO, OH—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to news of the passing of former Toledo mayor Jack Ford today: “It is with a heavy heart that I extend my deepest sympathy to the Ford family: his wife Cynthia, his children, and his friends and associates. Our community and citizenry holds an abiding gratitude for his lifetime of dedicated and honorable service to us. He was one of a kind. Mayor Jack Ford gave his life, decade after decade, to our entire community. As newly elected President of Toledo City Council in 1993, he just kept the beat of the City close to him. With every step, he directed himself to move our community and America forward. He made history. As an educator, health professional, and political activist, Mayor Ford became the very first African American Mayor elected in Toledo. He served in the State legislature and understood the interconnections of our City to the world beyond it. His knowledge was hard-earned and unique. With his election as Mayor, he elevated our community to a more inclusive and progressive place. He made us proud. Jack was all business. He always demonstrated a hands-on, can do attitude. He was a master of the City budget and directed his Administration to make long neglected improvements. Even when not feeling well, he carried forward his duties in a soldierly and persevering manner, earning respect from all who knew him. I particularly appreciated his genius and wry sense of humor. He never missed a beat. Our entire region has benefited from his generous and focused life on behalf of others. May the angels carry him to a place of peace and rest. He has been truly a good, faithful, and honorable servant.” ###
03.20.2015	Calls on N. Ohio textile companies, organizations to compete for manufacturing innovation opportunities WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur cheered news today that W Diamond Group has agreed in principle to purchase the Hugo Boss manufacturing facility on Tiedeman Road in Brooklyn, OH. "An American, family-owned, company has chosen to invest in Northern Ohio textile manufacturing, and that is great news for these 169 workers, their families and our entire region,” said Kaptur. “The Tiedeman Road facility is ina region that has a highly-trained textile workforce and a long history of making top quality menswear, making it a smart investment. I applaud the Williams Family for their ongoing commitment to the success of U.S. manufacturing and encourage others in the industry to learn from their example." Mark Milko, President of Workers United Local 10, said, “We are pleased to see that Hugo Boss and W Diamond have signed a letter of intent to keep the skilled union garment workers in Brooklyn employed.” News of the deal comes just two days after President Barack Obama visited Cleveland to announce federal competitions created to drive manufacturing innovation. Kaptur added, “This announcement reinforces what President Obama showed by coming here this week: Northern Ohio is a perfect place to lay the foundation for America’s manufacturing renaissance. I urge companies and organizations throughout our region to pursue the opportunities he announced as part of his visit, and to reach out to my staff for information or assistance at every opportunity.” On Wednesday the White House announced the launch of two major competitions in manufacturing innovation: 1. Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) competition to be held in 12 states including Ohio. This competition will award $316m, including $158 million from public funds and $158 million in private sector funds, over five years. Non-profits working with manufacturers can compete for cooperative agreements to operate MEP centers “to expand the range of lean production and technology acceleration services offered to small manufacturers and help bring their products to market.” For more on the competition, applicants should visit the NIST MEP competition website. A public webinar for applications will be conducted on Monday, March 30th, 2015 at 2:00 pm EST. 2. Institute for Manufacturing Innovation (IMI) competition to determine the location for a new applied research hub to facilitate the scientific and commercial development of textiles and revolutionary fibers. This competition is being run by the U.S. Department of Defense and will award $150 million, including $75 million in public funds and $75 million in private sector funding. This will be the ninth applied research hub established in the U.S. with seven more planned during this round. The first was located in Youngstown, OH, which won the pilot competition in 2012 with 40 companies, nine research universities, five community colleges and 11 nonprofit organizations participating. That hub continues to advance applied manufacturing research with 3D printing technologies. ###
03.19.2015	Legislators send fact-filled letter refuting U.S. Trade Representative claims WASHINGTON—Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) spoke at a joint press conference this morning (audio), along with other Members of Congress, to contest trade data being used by U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman to advocate for major trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The group sent a corresponding joint letter to Froman. “Ambassador Froman needs to check his math on America’s trade agreements,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Even with numbers padded heavily with re-exports, our trade deficits have ballooned with every new trade deal, especially in automotive manufacturing. Those deficits mean real jobs lost and wages cut for America’s working families. This is not the first time a bad trade deal has been sold to Congress and the American people on a failed promise of increased exports and jobs, but it needs to be the last.” Congressman Ryan (D-OH) said: “I am dismayed that a Democratic Administration would mislead our Caucus to believe that we have a trade surplus with our Free Trade Agreement Partners. The data that was presented to us yesterday was distorted. There is a clear track-record of these trade agreements gutting the American workforce and industry, and all we ask for is accurate information during the ongoing debate.” Ambassador Froman has told Members of Congress that the U.S. has a trade surplus with its free trade agreement partners, which is in direct contradiction with U.S. International Trade Commission data showing the U.S. has a large goods trade deficit with its free trade agreement partners. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI) also spoke at the event. Trade facts for U.S. and Ohio: The U.S. has a cumulative trade deficit of $9.5 trillion since 1976, equivalent to 47,500,000 jobs lost in the U.S. The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement has led to an estimated 84 percent increase in the U.S. trade deficit with Korea, equivalent to $12.7 billion and nearly 85,000 jobs lost since its ratification just three years ago. In that time Korea has imported approximately 20,000 U.S. passenger vehicles while they have exported more than 460,000, 20 times more than the U.S. is shipping to Korea. In the two decades from 1994 to 2014 Ohio had a net loss of 323,308 manufacturing jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. At the start of that period, manufacturing jobs accounted for 23.4 percent of all private sector jobs. By 2014 that number had fallen to 14.9 percent. During the same period, 139,321 workers have been certified as having lost their job due to imports or off-shoring under the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, a notoriously difficult program to qualify for. According to a 2011 report from the Economic Policy Institute, 34,900 jobs in Ohio and more than 680,000 in the U.S. have been lost or displaced as a result of the rising trade deficit with with Mexico under NAFTA. A year later the Economic Policy Institute reported that 91,800 jobs in Ohio and more than 2.7 million in the U.S. have been lost or displaced due to our rising trade debt with China. ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement following President Obama’s visit to Cleveland today: “I want to commend the President for choosing Cleveland as the setting for today’s event. I, as well as Senator Brown, Representative Fudge, and many of our constituents, were pleased that the President came here to announce the expansion of two major initiatives in manufacturing innovation. This is a region that was built on a strong tradition of manufacturing, and there could be no more fitting place to lay the groundwork for the next renaissance in American manufacturing that will rebuild America’s middle class. There are other hurdles we must also address as we work to build a strong middle class. One of the audience members today highlighted this point when he asked the President about Citizens United, campaign spending and the relationship between money and influence in the American political system. President Obama spoke at length about the problems this creates for our nation’s political agenda, diverting attention away from policies, such as infrastructure and trade reform, that could greatly benefit middle class families. Instead, these issues are distorted and blocked, left to rot on the vine. The President said this is bad for American democracy and the American economy. I could not agree more. We have to do a better job of reigning in the influence these groups wield and restore our focus on serving working families as the guiding principle for our elections and our representative government. Again, thank you to the President for highlighting Cleveland and Northern Ohio as a vital region in the rebirth of American manufacturing, and for taking time to respond to questions and concerns shared by people throughout this region. I look forward to building on the momentum we started here in the coming months as we continue to fight for the future of American manufacturing and America’s middle class.” ###
03.18.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s visit to Cleveland this week: “The President’s visit to Cleveland brings the national spotlight to the Northern Ohio region, a region ready and eager to engage in a real conversation about middle class economics. During his visit he will see the unmistakable and pervasive spirit of innovation and tenacity that is reinvigorating downtown Cleveland, and spreading its wings across the region but we must not forget the struggles many in the Cleveland community still face. It is fitting that President Obama will start his day in Cleveland touring MAGNET, an organization that has been a true leader in supporting and advancing Northern Ohio’s manufacturing industry for more than three decades. It has been a steadfast conduit for public-private partnerships and a true champion of “Making it in America” and the American worker. Manufacturers know how to grow the U.S. economy from the middle out. America has a lot of work to do on major middle class economic issues, including modernizing our transportation system, building infrastructure, solving immigration challenges, and reauthorizing the Export Import Bank, and many others. These are middle class issues where the President would have significant bipartisan support, particularly among Democrats. The same cannot be said of unfair global trade deals that have a proven record of failure and growing trade deficits, harming America’s middle class especially in our manufacturing base. Cleveland has the tools and the leadership needed to drive middle class growth throughout our region, and to make the economic recovery a reality for those struggling families who have yet to feel its full effects. There is much the President can do to further these efforts, and we greatly appreciate his visit to our Great Lakes heartland.” Preview of President's Announcement The White House has released some details about the programs the President will announce today: - Nearly $150 million public-private investment for a new textiles-focused Manufacturing Innovation Institute competition. - Nearly $320 million to support sharpening the capabilities of small manufacturers through Manufacturing Extension Partnership competitions in twelve states, including Ohio (to be announced while touring the MAGNET’s Manufacturing Innovation Center at Cleveland State University). o The MEP competition will award nearly $320 million annually for five years across twelve states – an expected total of $158 million matched at least dollar-for-dollar by $158 million or more of non-federal funding – to strengthen and reinvest in this nationwide network of manufacturing expertise. Non-profits working with manufacturers in each of the twelve states will have the opportunity to compete for cooperative agreements to operate MEP centers and expand the range of lean production and technology acceleration services offered to small manufacturers, and help bring their products to market. Annual funding is subject to continued performance and the availability of appropriations. New MEP competitions are being launched in 12 states: Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Utah, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. o For more on the competition, applicants should visit the NIST MEP competition website. A public webinar for applications will be conducted on Monday, March 30th, 2015 at 2:00 pm EST. - Supply Chain Innovation Initiative focused on building public-private partnerships to strengthen the small U.S. manufacturers that anchor the nation’s supply chains. ###
03.18.2015	Legislators send letter opposing elimination of full-time supervisor at increasingly popular site WASHINGTON—Representatives Marcy Kaptur, Bob Latta and Jim Jordan and Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman delivered a joint letter to the U.S. National Park Service (NPS) this morning urging the agency to reject any proposal to eliminate the full-time supervisor at the Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial. “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is a growing success story for the Park Service,” said Kaptur. “The site has proven its value time and again as a premier federal landmark, a tourism hotspot, and a place where history is brought to life for children and families. It would be a mistake to ‘give up the ship’ on this important and heavily used economic and cultural resource. I urge the ParkService to be thorough and transparent in their review of this regional treasure.” “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is one of Ohio’s most visited National Park sites, and its staff depends on federal resources to provide access and educational programming,” Brown said. “The National Park Service must consider the proven success and cultural significance of Perry’s Victory Memorial.” “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is a historic landmark that not only enriches the lives of Ohio families but also boosts Ohio’s tourism and economy,” Portman stated.“I urge the National Parks Service to consider the economic and historical significance of the memorial when conducting their review.” “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is one of Ohio’s premier landmarks, providing a unique, historical experience for nearly 130,000 visitors each year,” said Latta.“It is imperative that the National Park Service continue to maintain this site, which not only provides economic and cultural benefits to our region, but also serves as an important educational and community resource. In addition, all discussions regarding the future of this memorial must be transparent and open to the public.” Rep. Kaptur learned of an internal review process taking place within NPS that could potentially lead to the elimination of a full-time supervisor at the site; such a move would overlook growing visitation numbers, increased community engagement, and an expanded NPS budget. Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial is the secondmostvisited NPS site in the State of Ohio, welcoming nearly 130,000 visitors each year and reaching more than twice as many individuals through education programs and community outreach. Rep. Kaptur helped secure federal funding to repair the observation deck at Perry’s Memorial last year, ensuring the park would be fully accessible for Bicentennial commemoration events. Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial was built nearly a century ago to honor those who fought in the Battle of Lake Erie during the War of 1812 and remind visitors of “the lessons of international peace by arbitration and disarmament.” The phrase “Don’t Give Up the Ship” achieved legendary status when Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry won the Battle of Lake Erie decisively while flying a bright blue banner displaying the phrase. The victorious ship was the USS Lawrence, which wasnamed for Captain James Lawrence to whom the quote is attributed. “Don’t Give Up The Ship” was regarded as the unofficial motto of the U.S. Navy for many years. ###
03.13.2015	U.S. Coast Guard and Army Corps of Engineers assisting flood relief efforts in Vermilion, Huron, and Rocky River WASHINGTON—Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) announced today that the United States Coast Guard is working actively to assist in flood relief efforts in Vermillion River, the Port of Huron, and the Rocky River. This intervention is the result of collaboration between Rep. Kaptur and local officials in Vermilion, Huron, and Rocky River with Coast Guard and Army Corps of Engineers officials in the region. Coast Guard Cutter Neah Bay is cutting relief tracks off of Vermilion and Rocky River as well as conducting initial fracture for the Port of Huron in conjunction with Army Corps of Engineers flood relief efforts in the Central Basin of Lake Erie. “I would like to thank the U.S. Coast Guard, the Army Corps of Engineers, local elected officials, my staff and residents of the affected areas for their joint effort in confronting the imminent threat of flooding in our area. The spring thaw can be a dangerous time for flooding and can pose serious challenges to residents and officials alike,” said Kaptur. “Thankfully we were able to work together across many jurisdictions this year to make sure that our flood response is as coordinated and effective as possible. As we continue to face harsh winters and unexpected changes to the climate in our region, we must remain vigilant in protecting communities along Lake Erie that are most likely to be affected.” Vermilion Mayor Eileen Bulan applauded the collaborative intervention, saying, “We met with Lorain and Erie County Emergency Management and local law enforcement and determined that we needed to act quickly. We contacted Congresswoman Kaptur’s office and they responded immediately, coordinating with the Army Corps of Engineers and the Coast Guard to get us the help we needed. We appreciate everyone’s attention and hard work in making sure the residents of Vermilion were safe.” For those in flood advisory areas, FEMA flood recommendations can be found here: 1.usa.gov/1CeA7QR. General information about flood insurance can be found here:1.usa.gov/1oXAJnc. ###
03.09.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement responding to news that layoffs are moving forward at U.S. Steel’s Lorain Tubular Operations: “I am deeply disappointed that these layoffs are moving forward. This is exactly why I have fought for so many years against unfair trade practices like the dumping of cheap low-grade foreign steel into our U.S. marketplace. Even now the U.S. is negotiating trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership that must be revised to account for such concerns. Our steel workers in Lorain and across the country deserve better. Our goal must be the long-term global competitiveness of American manufacturing. To achieve that goal, we can and must make smart investments in infrastructure using domestically sourced steel that we know is high quality and will last for generations. The facility in Lorain is highly dependent on the availability and price of energy in our region. Companies in our region continue to move forward with practical solutions to improve efficiency and self-sufficiency of facilities like this one, and we must continue moving forward with these renewable and alternative energy options.. Finally, we must renew our investment in programs like Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) that tailor services to individual workers to help them at a critical juncture in their own lives. The U.S. Steelworkers have given their all. America must meet its commitment to them and their outstanding work ethic. Long-term changes like these will not stop the devastating job losses starting next week in Lorain, but they will help prevent future losses and help these workers find new jobs doing what they do best: making things.” ###
03.05.2015	Projects supported will combat invasive species and restore Lake Erie watershed and tributaries WASHINGTON—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, along with EPA officials and local leaders, announced more than $2.4 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) funding to fight invasive plant species in Lake Eire and its tributaries. Lake Erie supports an estimated 120,000 jobs in Northern Ohio, generates more than $1.7 billion in total tax revenue and provides drinking water to more than 3 million Ohio residents. Tourism in the region accounts for an estimated $12.9 billion in retail sales and $3.3 billion in employee wages. The Great Lakes system supports a fishery valued at $7 billion, making it the most valuable freshwater commercial fishery in the world. “Protecting our Great Lakes ecosystem is both an environmental and an economic priority,” said Kaptur. “With this important federal investment, Ohio and other Great Lakes states can work to ensure this ecosystem is as healthy as possible. GLRI support for programs like these has been critical to state and local efforts to protect our treasured Great Lakes, which are so vital to our region’s environmental and economic health.” Jane Goodman, Executive Director of Cuyahoga River Restoration, added, “We are so grateful for this opportunity to gain a measure of control over invasive plants that threaten the health of our watershed. The collaboration among partners is what makes it all possible. Bringing together the expertise and resources of ODNR-DNAP, the Cleveland Metroparks, Summit County, Portage County and Geauga County park systems, the Conservancy for Cuyahoga Valley National Park, Tinker’s Creek Watershed Partners, and the Student Conservation Association, we will be able to remove or prevent invasion on a huge area of land and streams.” Lorain County will receive $634,889 to control at least 30 acres of invasive plant species and to restore habitat in the Black River Watershed and two smaller tributaries to Lake Erie. This project will also create jobs for 10 seasonal employees who will be hired for the project through the Black River Civilian Conservation Corps. The Cuyahoga River Community Planning Organization will receive $534,230 to identify and remove invasive plants from about 1,800 acres in the Cuyahoga River watershed, which drains into Lake Erie. Local partners and stakeholders in the region will also coordinate a campaign to raise public awareness of invasive plants in this watershed. Three projects totaling $1,241,741 will be overseen by The Nature Conservancy and will address invasive species impacting Ohio’s western Lake Erie basin, including the Maumee River and its tributaries. The Environmental Protection Agency is also funding another approximately $6 million in efforts to eradicate invasive species in the other four Great Lakes regions. For an overview of work being through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative visit, https://greatlakesrestoration.us. Rep. Kaptur serves as Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur went to the floor of the House to urge passage of H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act, which reauthorizes Amtrak for the next four years, makes certain improvements to rail infrastructure, and provides support to strengthen our national passenger rail network, creating more diverse and reliable travel options for the public. In her statement, Rep. Kaptur emphasized the need to increase attention to passenger rail in the Great Lakes region, particularly in Northern Ohio. Investments in rail infrastructure are more important than ever, with increasing rail traffic passing through stations across Northern Ohio. News outlets including the Toledo Blade and Cleveland’s The Plain Dealer have reported on the problems resulting from increased congestion on the region’s rail lines. Video of the speech can be seen here. Full text of her statement is included below. “Mr. Chairman, as the representative of the busiest Amtrak station in Ohio at Toledo and the Amtrak station in Sandusky, I rise to urge passage of this important bill to continue and advance passenger rail service across our nation. When I was born, the population of the United States was 146 million people. Today it surpasses 320 million. By 2050, our nation’s population is predicted to reach 500 million. As time moves forward, the necessity for passenger rail will become clearer with each passing day. Many of our major urban centers are clogged with traffic jams daily and the railroads across my region of our continent have severe freight rail and passenger rail conflicts because they are forced to use the same tracks. Imagine, we are living in the 21st century and are still tethered to 19th century rail pathways. Passenger rail travel in Ohio is booming, up from 108,000 passengers in 2007 to 160,000 passengers in 2013. A trend my district has seen as well, with Toledo’s passengers on the Northern Ohio corridor increasing from 53,000 to 77,000 over the same time. Imagine the traffic jams if all these individuals traveled by car instead of rail. It is not just the northeastern part of our nation that needs added attention to passenger rail service. It also should include the Great Lake region. The corridor that stretches the length of my district, and connects our industrial heartland corridor from Pittsburgh to Cleveland to Sandusky to Toledo to Gary to Chicago, needs special attention too. During an extended stretch last year, between July and September, the Capitol Limited, which runs from Washington, DC to Chicago, and includes the Northern Ohio stretch, completed only 2.7 percent of its trips on time. The dramatic increase of freight rail consistently bumps passenger rail service, which we also need, causing lengthy delays in passenger service across our vast region. I have two articles that I would ask to insert into the record, detailing these troubles. Customers are understandably frustrated. Our region needs a capital and investment plan too. Our region needs evaluation for state supported routes. Our region needs expedited attention, methodology development and service planning to remedy growing congestion and inefficiencies that benefit no one – not the freight lines, not passenger service and surely not the communities they are supposed to serve, nor connectivity to inner city passenger rail service. I appreciate the efforts of Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio as well as Subcommittee Chairman Denham and Ranking Member Capuano in working together and producing this bill. I ask that our Midwest region not be excluded for alternate passenger rail service pilot programs, opportunities for rail investment, station improvements and historic preservation, or public-private partnerships that can advance modern passenger rail. Thank you Mr. Chairman.” ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON—Representatives Marcy Kaptur and Walter Jones hosted a trade discussion on Capitol Hill this afternoon to rebut common arguments used to push “Fast Track” Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and global trade deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). Reps. Kaptur and Jones were joined by panelists Dr. Robert Scott, Director of Trade and Manufacturing Policy Research at the Economic Policy Institute, and Alan Tonelson, founder of RealityChek and thirty year veteran economist specializing in manufacturing and global trade. “Every time a massive trade deal comes down the pike, American workers and their families, including families throughout Northern Ohio, take the hit,”said Kaptur. “Outsourcing jobs and ballooning trade deficits contribute directly to the dismantling of major production sites for our national economy. In the last quarter century, the United States has failed to enact any major trade agreement that has resulted in trade surpluses for the U.S. In fact, NAFTA, the Korea-U.S. FTA and China’s PNTR designation have all cost our nation millions of lost jobs and lost gross domestic productivity.” Kaptur continued, “We cannot afford another repeat of this damaging history. Fast Tracking global trade deals is a harmful and dangerous policy that overrides our Congressional responsibility to debate and amend trade agreements that directly impact communities we represent. If we had a trade deal on the table that would employ more workers and expand businesses of all sizes, it would stand up to Congressional scrutiny. The only reason to Fast Track these deals would be to hide their provisions from Congress and the American people. I cannot and will not accept such a reckless approach.” “I strongly oppose giving fast-track authority to President Obama,”added Rep. Jones. “For the past six years the President has ignored Congress, repeatedly abused his executive authority, and flaunted the law on Obamacare, amnesty for illegal aliens, and many other things. Given his record, I am astonished that some of my colleagues are so eager to fork over even more of their constitutional authority to the President for him to abuse. It would be incredibly naïve to think that the president has changed his approach and will now dutifully follow whatever statutory trade negotiating instructions Congress might seek to require of him in a fast-track bill.” Panelist Alan Tonelson added, “It’s simply implausible to think that negotiating new trade deals based on past failed trade deals can possible boost US economic growth, increase job creation and raise wages. In fact history teaches us exactly the opposite. The trade flows that have been most heavily influenced by U.S trade policies have cut growth, have reduced job creation and lowered wages. Those are the last things the U.S. economy needs right now.” PanelistDr. Robert Scott praised the discussion as “a very timely event” and added, “Trade agreements and the arguments for Fast Track and Trade Promotion Authority have been based largely on specious claims that exports generate jobs and growth in the economy. This is central to the argument for these trade deals, but the facts reveal time after time that U.S. trade and investment deals with countries like Mexico, Korea, China and the proposed TPP have led to growing trade deficits, rising job loss, millions of jobs in the United States and downward pressure on wages for millions and millions of working Americans. We have to keep this in mind with these trade proposals.” More than 5 million manufacturing jobs have been lost since NAFTA was enacted while average family wages in Northern Ohio are down an estimated $7,000 per year. Since 1976, the U.S. has racked up a cumulative $9.5 trillion in trade deficits, the equivalent of 47,500,000 jobs lost or never created. The event was broadcast live online and can be seen here: https://youtu.be/8U-dAcmGZ3E ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur hosted Rabbi Alan Mayor Sokobin Th.D., D.D., J.D. for a celebratory lunch marking his 90th birthday. He has served as policy advisor to Rep. Kaptur on matters relating to Israel. Earlier in the day Rabbi Sokobin attended the speech of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on the floor of the House of Representatives, using Ms. Kaptur’s ticket to the event. “Rabbi Sokobin is a longtime friend and confidant and I am honored to have been part of his 90th birthday celebrations,”said Kaptur. “Alan’s devotion to his life of service has been an inspiration for many years, marked not only by his four decades of service and leadership to the Jewish community in and around Sylvania but also as a spiritual teacher in the broader community and as a husband, father and grandfather. I congratulate Alan on becoming a distinguished nonagenarian this week and look forward to his continued friendship and counsel for years to come.” According to the University of Toledo College of Law, where he works as a guest lecturer, Rabbi Sokobin served as a congregational rabbi for forty years in The Temple, Congregation Shomer Emunim of Sylvania. After his retirement he enrolled at the College of Law and received his degree in 1996. Rabbi Sokobin has been Jewish Chautauqua Society Associate Professor of History at the University of Toledo. He has authored articles in The Jewish Spectator, C.C.A.R. Journal, The Journal of Reform Judaism, International Social Science Review, International Journal on World Peace, Guru Nanak Journal of Sociology, Amritsar, India as well as the Law Review of the University of Toledo College Rabbi Sokobin has served on the Commission of Social Action of American Reform Judaism, the Board of Trustees of the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion and is presently a member of the Rabbinic Cabinet of the United Jewish Appeal as well as the Rabbinic Cabinet of the Jewish National Fund. For eight years Rabbi Sokobin and his wife directed the summer program in Israel for the National Federation of Temple Youth. ###
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement today in response to the announcement that Senator Barbara Mikulski will retire at the end of her current term: “Senator Barbara Mikulski has been an exemplary leader and public servant for more than four decades. She has done legendary, persevering, heart-on-fire work for her Maryland constituents and the American people throughout her long tenure of honorable service. Her acumen, wit, and pure grit enlivened her years as a Representative in the House, followed by her rise in the U.S. Senate as Chair of its Appropriations Committee. On literally thousands of occasions, her presence with the gavel and pen in Committees and Subcommittees has achieved a more democratic America. Senator Mikulski has fiercely championed the causes in which she believes. The list of these causes is long and wide ranging: women's rights, workers' rights, Baltimore and Maryland, ports and shipping, Goddard Space Center and space exploration, housing and community development, and many others. I first encountered Senator Mikulski's work in Baltimore when she was leading her community to preserve and improve the neighborhoods of her home city, a multi ethnic, multi-racial town. That led to her election to Congress in 1976 just as the Carter Administration was sworn in. Through my work on that White House staff, I soon met her as she began her House service and our urban revitalization interests converged. She was always gracious and focused on the job at hand. When I was elected in 1982 to Congress, she was already there, one of 23 women at the time. She made the time to show me around the quarters of the House even leading me into the cloakroom, and advising me how to get remote telephones installed. I can recall when Speaker Nancy Pelosi was first running for Congress and several women Members flew out to help her. Barbara Mikulski gleefully opened the rally with the words: "Well, ladies, we used to get together for sessions on weight control; now we are here to make a difference on arms control." The line brought the house down. Her humor is legendary. Many years later, both of us were honored to attend the funeral service of the first Polish born prelate, Pope John Paul II in Rome, an unforgettable, historic occasion. As a Polish-American woman, Senator Mikulski has brought with her the experience and concerns of people of Slavic heritage. She remains one of the few ever elected to the Congress. Her service as longest serving woman in the U.S. demonstrates that she surely possesses the "freedom gene" so prized by people of Polish American heritage. Senator Mikulski’s service has made Congress a more representative institution. I believe that to be her greatest achievement. I wish her all the best as she wraps up an extraordinary career of public service and goes on to whatever life has in store for her next.” ###
03.02.2015	Funding supports innovative affordable housing design and support programs WASHINGTON—Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced a grant award of $173,000 to NeighborWorks Toledo Region by NeighborWorks America. NeighborWorks Toledo Region will use the funds to support the development of architectural plans for a new affordable housing design, as well as its ongoing homeownership training programs. “Affordable housing is essential for Toledo residents to support their families and maintain steady employment,” said Rep. Kaptur.“I am pleased that NeighborWorks America recognizes the critical work being done by our Toledo NeighborWorks organization. This funding supports homegrown initiatives that develop innovative housing designs and teach individuals how to maintain their homes, in turn helping to maintain and revitalize communities and increase the availability of affordable housing for more of our community’s residents. I applaud NeighborWorks America for the important work they do and the reward of this grant.” “This announcement is great news and will be a significant boost to our ability to have an impact in our community,” said Bill Farnsel, Executive Director of NeighborWorks Toledo Region. “I am thrilled that NeighborWorks will help fund our programs again this year, which include homeownership training as well as innovative housing designs that lower construction costs for high quality homes. Support for programs like these from our public officials, including Congresswoman Kaptur, ends up making a real investment in the Toledo community.” “NeighborWorks America is proud to distribute these funds to organizations across the country and support their excellent work in communities. The NeighborWorks network organizations provide housing opportunities, build strong neighborhoods, and create jobs. We at NeighborWorks focus on being careful stewards of the resources the taxpayers have entrusted to us,” said NeighborWorks America’s CEO Paul Weech. “A strong indicator of the value of these grants is that in FY 2014, we leveraged $44 dollars of other investments for every $1 in federal appropriation – resulting in a direct investment of $5.96 billion in communities last fiscal year. NeighborWorks’ investments are working to truly make a difference in communities across the country.” This grant funding is available as part of FY 2015 monies appropriated through Public Law 113-235– the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015. For more about NeighborWorks Toledo Region, visit: https://www.nhstoledo.org/. Additional information about NeighborWorks America can be found here: https://www.neighborworks.org/About-Us. NeighborWorks America awards funds to its local affiliates to support their efforts to revitalize and sustain local communities, promote and preserve affordable housing, and to create and sustain jobs. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, 202-225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Yesterday the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, Representatives Marcy Kaptur, Sandy Levin and Mike Fitzpatrick, hosted a group of prominent Ukrainian officials: Andriy Parubiy, First Vice-Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Oleksiy Skrypnyk, MP, and Olexander Motsyk, Ambassador of Ukraine to the U.S., for a discussion about the prospect of the U.S. providing defensive arms to Ukraine. “Ukraine is a free and sovereign nation at a crossroads,”said Rep. Kaptur. “Its people are fighting for their lives and their freedom, despite being outnumbered and outgunned by its neighboring aggressor Russia. We now have the opportunity, and more importantly the responsibility based on longstanding international agreements, to help this free nation to defend itself, and not allow it to be subsumed by the Kremlin.” Kaptur added,“The government of Ukraine has acted in good faith to abide by its international agreements, and its goals are to serve and provide for the free people of Ukraine. This is a friendly nation in the midst of a transformation that holds great promise for the U.S., Russia, Europe and the world. However, that promise may never be realized without support from other free nations including the United States.” Rep. Levin said, “Ukrainians remain resolute and courageous in demanding a better future, and the United States needs to help. Ukraine needs help to find a solution to a durable cease-fire that can lead to a longer-term solution that respects Ukraine’s sovereignty, its future and its freedom to determine its own path. We all know that while there is no purely military solution to what is a political problem, additional U.S. military assistance can help promote a political solution. Therefore, the United States should begin providing defensive weapons that would help Ukraine defend its territory. Such weapons should include anti-tank weapons to defend against Russian-provided armored personnel carriers, ammunition, armed vehicles, and secure communications equipment, among other items.” Rep. Fitzpatrick said,“The people of Ukraine have an unalienable right to determine their political future without external coercion. Recent elections have shown that the Ukrainian people desire comprehensive government reform and economic development and are ready to make the commitments needed to accomplish those objectives. So how can we stand idly by as those goals are suppressed? As a promoter of international peace and liberty, it is critical that America speak with one voice when responding to Russia’s flagrant and devastating aggression. If we fail to respond to Russian aggression in Ukraine today, it will signal to Moscow – and others nations - that anyone can act contrary to international law and American interests without fear of repercussions. Our response on behalf of our Ukrainian friends will show the world that the United States sticks with its promises and looks after its allies.” The United States, Ukraine and Russia are among the signatories to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances, which guaranteed Ukrainian security and sovereignty in return for the dismantling of its considerable nuclear stockpile. Russia’s aggressive intervention has been criticized by every other signatory nation as being in violation of that agreement and of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. During the meeting the Ukrainian officials offered a list of concrete lethal aid requests made to the Pentagon and National Security Council. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or mailto:Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov(Kaptur) Josh Drobnyk, (202) 225-4961 or mailto:Josh.Drobnyk@mail.house.gov (Levin) Aaron Clark, (215) 579-8102 oraaron.clark@mail.house.gov (Fitzpatrick) ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement tonight after the House of Representatives voted to approve legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security for one week: “Tonight, our House Democratic leadership has assured our Members that we will vote by end of next week on full and steady funding of the Department through Sept. 30. Regular order and certainty for the Department have been the objectives of the Democratic Party through these trying weeks, which have been filled with unnecessary delays that have created hardship for our front line workers who defend America in our homeland every day." Let us get the job done here in Congress to protect our homeland and the safety of the American people.” ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON—Today, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur joined 18 Great Lakes colleagues to introduce the Defending Our Great Lakes Act. This bipartisan bill would give federal agencies broad authority to stop the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species, including the installation of a new barrier that would help prevent Asian carp from further destabilizing the Great Lakes ecosystem. The bill is sponsored by Representative Candice Miller (R-MI) and supported by the four co-chairs of the House Great Lakes Task Force. Rep. Kaptur was elected to serve as a new Co-Chair of the Task Force earlier this month. “The Asian carp invasion poses an immediate and growing threat to the ecosystem of the Great Lakes and the multi-billion dollar fishing and tourism industries that depend on it,” said Kaptur. “This bill is a step forward as we fight to prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from gaining a foothold in the GreatLakes, and helps equip agencies with the tools necessary to support this effort. The proposed legislation would give federal agencies broad authority to fight the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species. It would assign the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers the authority to take near-term and long-term actions to prevent the spread of invasive species, at a critical control point in the Chicago Area Waterway System—the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. It would also establish a testing ground for certain invasive species control technologies. Finally it would require agencies to work with stakeholders in the region to institute long-term measures to help stop the spread of invasive species between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. The following Representatives are original co-sponsors: Dan Benishek (R-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), John Conyers (D-MI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), David Joyce (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Robert E. Latta (R-OH), Sandy Levin (D-MI), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Dave Trott (R-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI) and Tim Walberg (R-MI). A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). This legislation is supported by the Great Lakes Commission, Great Lakes Fishery Commission, National Wildlife Federation, Great Lakes Metro Chamber of Commerce, Healing our Waters Coalition, Alliance for the Great Lakes, Michigan Trout Unlimited, Michigan United Conservation Clubs. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives passed the Drinking Water Protection Act (H.R. 212) this evening by a bipartisan vote of 375 to 37 pushing federal agencies to provide clear protocols and oversight in the event of a large-scale algal bloom. Representative Kaptur is an original co-sponsor for this legislation which was introduced in this Congress by Rep. Bob Latta. Algal blooms are often the result of excessive runoff from agriculture or urban centers. They can produce a dangerous spike in the concentration of toxins in drinking water and eventually lead to major ecological collapse. “When the water crisis hit Toledo last year, shortcomings in our federal response to this kind of dangerous environmental event were laid bare,” said Kaptur. “While it has been long in coming, Congress has finally taken a critical step to arm communities against the threat of toxic algae, which I hope expedites the U.S. EPA’s work on long-overdue guidelines. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to approve this overdue legislation without further delay.” Lake Erie is one of the largest sources of fresh water for drinking in the world. Communities along the coast of Lake Erie depend on the lake with more than 7 billion dollars a year in economic activity coming from fishing, recreation, and tourism. Representative Kaptur is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water and was recently elected to serve as a new Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force She has sponsored algal bloom response legislation since the 2014 Lake Erie water crisis. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.24.2015	Bipartisan resolution marks anniversary of Euromaidan; calls for comprehensive, coherent policy to support Ukraine WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressional Ukrainian Caucus co-chairs Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) are marking the one year anniversary of Ukraine’s Euromaidan demonstrations Tuesday with the introduction of a resolution calling for increased American economic and governmental involvement on the behalf of Ukraine. “A year ago, the people of Ukraine rallied behind the ideas of economic and governmental reform during the Euromaidan demonstrations – today, the United States must take action to see their goals achieved,” said Fitzpatrick. “This bipartisan resolution calls on Congress and the White House to work in the best interest of our friend and ally, Ukraine, and support a safe and sovereign nation through common sense measures: Supporting serious reform efforts, calling on the President Obama to follow through with the provision of financial and defensive military aid, and encouraging the continuation of anti-corruption efforts in Kiev.” “On the anniversary of Maidan, this Resolution underscores our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their efforts to chart their own history. We must fully implement the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, including providing defensive weapons. In spite of the fragile Minsk Agreement, Ukraine still needs our help to find a solution to a durable cease-fire that can lead to a longer-term solution,” said Levin. “We all know that while there is no pure military solution to what is a political problem, additional U.S. military assistance can help promote a political solution. The Ukrainian people have shown their resolve to build a free and democratic country, and we should support them in achieving that goal.” “Ukraine is a sovereign nation at a crossroads, fighting for its life and the freedom of its people. Actions we take now will shape the future not only for the people of Ukraine but for all of Europe. This legislation makes a clear and resounding statement that the United States supports the right of free and sovereign people to defend themselves against illegal and violent aggression from beyond their borders,” said Kaptur. “The Euromaidan demonstrations one year ago today showed the world that a spirit of liberty burns brightly among the Ukrainian people. It is that same spirit that I saw reflected in the eyes of the Ukrainian Members of Parliament who came to Congress to ask for our help. I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to adopt this legislation without delay.” The resolution calls for the United States to assist Ukraine with economic, social and governmental reform efforts; urges President Obama to immediately act on approved financial and defensive military aid; and encourages Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko to continue anti-corruption efforts. Introduction of the bipartisan resolution coincides with the one year anniversary of the Euromaidan demonstrations in Kiev urging for economic expansion with the European Union and government reform. Ultimately, the protests lead to the election of a pro-western government and a return to the 2004 Ukrainian constitution. One hundred and ten civilians and 28 police officers lost their lives in the Euromaidan. ###
02.23.2015	TOLEDO, OH–Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur has announced that Liz Maniak, a student at Toledo School for the Arts, is the Ohio 9th Congressional District overall winner of the 2015 Congressional Arts Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Representative Kaptur made the announcement at an award ceremony yesterday afternoon. A six-member panel of judges recognized Liz for her original work titled “Self Portrait,” which will hang in the U.S. Capitol for the coming year. A reception will also be held this summer for Liz and other Congressional Art Competition winners in the Capitol Visitors Center in Washington D.C. She and a parent will have the opportunity to receive round-trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend the reception. “The student artwork we received this year showed great skill and creativity from many young artists throughout the region, and I commend each of our participants for their creativity and initiative.” said Kaptur.“Liz’s work stood out even among the many compelling and award-winning pieces we reviewed and I look forward to visiting it at its home in the Capitol during the next year.” In addition to the overall competition winner, students from Bowsher High School, Lakewood High School, Maumee Valley Country Day School, Perkins High School, Rogers High School, St. Francis De Sales High School, Toledo School for the Arts, Waite High School and Woodward High School were also presented with awards recognizing their work. The Congressional Art Competition is a nation-wide competition sponsored by the U.S. House of Representatives. It was established in 1982 to recognize and encourage artistic talent among U.S. high school students. Information about submissions reviewed for Ohio’s 9th Congressional District competition, including photos of art submissions, student names, school affiliations and awards won, can be found in this briefing book. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.20.2015	Roundtable focuses on federal services supporting investment in renewable energy, exporting Ohio products TOLEDO, OH—Today more than 30 of the region's industry leaders and community officials joined Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz and Fred P. Hochberg, Chairman and President of the U.S. Export-Import Bank at Owens Corning in Toledo for a manufacturing roundtable discussion. The event was focused on growing manufacturing and creating jobs in the region by exporting Ohio made products and supporting investments in energy efficiency. “Despite ongoing damage from disastrous trade deals such as NAFTA, American manufacturing investments in energy efficiency and responsible trade growth could go a long way to restoring the global competitiveness and long-term viability of many industries,” said Kaptur.“Our discussion this afternoon brought together experts and leaders in energy and trade for a lively and productive conversation with our region’s manufacturing leaders. It is my hope that this discussion will help our region’s manufacturing leaders make smart choices for the future, whether that means investing in renewable energy or in export growth that creates and sustains jobs. Investing in manufacturing growth has a ripple effect on our region’s economy, creating and sustaining jobs not only in manufacturing facilities but also for freight carriers, logistics providers, community banks, suppliers and many others. I hope the conversations we started today will be ongoing and will help our region’s manufacturers initiate valuable trade connections and invest in the long term energy future for our region.” According to its website, the U.S. Department of Energy funds research, development and application of efficient and innovative manufacturing technologies. It has supported development of more than 250 energy-saving industrial technologies that have been successfully commercialized. It provides technical assistance to thousands of industrial plants saving billions of dollars for manufacturers and cutting millions of tons of carbon emissions. The Department is currently working to create a network of Manufacturing Innovation Institutes that will target unique technology in advanced manufacturing. Since 2007, the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. has supported a combined $36 million in exports by 16 exporters from Ohio’s 9th Congressional District. Three quarters of these exporters have been small businesses and at least three quarters have been manufacturing companies. Export destinations include China, the United Kingdom and Canada. Roundtable Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON--Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Tim Murphy (R-PA) have announced the organization of the Congressional Caucus on Poland for the 114th Congress (2015-16). The Poland Caucus, as it is also known, is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to maintaining and strengthening the United States-Poland relationship and to educating others on the political, economic, and security issues facing this region of the world. The caucus is pleased to have Congressman Tim Murphy join as a co-chair for the 114th Congress. During the upcoming session, the Poland Caucus intends to focus on several issues, including Poland's perspective on Russian aggression in the region and the U.S. role in responding to this security situation; energy development and security issues of mutual interest to Poland and the U.S.; exploration of expanded trade and economic ties between Poland and the U.S.; science, technology, and innovation collaboration between the two countries; and the expansion of the Visa Waiver Program to include Poland. Efforts to engage the large Polish communities that reside in the United States will also be at the forefront of the caucus’ agenda. The caucus expects that the consideration of these issues will take various forms, including briefings, meetings, and events involving members of the caucus and representatives from the Embassy of Poland as well as from Warsaw. In addition, the caucus will conduct other policy-driven efforts and social events. “Poland stands an exemplar of the notion of ‘shared values,’ from human rights to our most profound global security concerns,” said Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ). “The Poland Caucus will be an important vehicle in Congress for increasing awareness of the issues of mutual concern with this close ally.” “As a proud Polish-American that represents a congressional district that is home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans, this caucus provides a bipartisan platform to champion causes near and dear to Polish-Americans,” said Rep. Lipinski (D-IL). “Poland has been a true friend of the United States. Over the next two years, I look forward to continuing to grow our relationship with this key partner and valuable ally that has demonstrated countless times a capacity and willingness to act for the common good beyond its own borders.” “Growing up in a family with an enduring and rich Polish-American heritage, I have seen for myself the close kinship shared by the American and the Polish people,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “We hold a mutual and fervent commitment to liberty and self-determination. The people of Poland helped imbue our own Republic from its founding with a passionate love of liberty for all, including key precepts of our respective Constitutions. To me, the moment in 1999 when Poland was brought under NATO's umbrella remains one of modern history's glorious moments. Our nations also share a close economic relationship that upholds human dignity and supports the growth of business, arts and culture. My own district is home to thousands of Polish-Americans, a thriving community that has played an important role in the history and culture of our region. In a world where tragic conflicts arise due to naked aggression and covetous nations, there could be no more important work than to strengthen America’s relationship with our partner and friend Poland.” “I couldn’t be prouder to represent thousands of Polish Americans who have made enormous contributions to the vitality and prosperity of Southwestern Pennsylvania, and with my own family’s Polish roots, I am honored to serve as co-chair of the Poland Caucus,” said Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA). “I look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen the friendship and alliance between our two countries.” In prior years, the Poland Caucus has held briefings and otherwise been engaged in topics including missile defense, commemorating the anniversary of democracy and freedom coming to Poland, engaging the Poland government on security matters, and cultural events. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.17.2015	Funds repair of Lake Erie infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Sandy CLEVELAND, OH—Representative Marcy Kaptur today announced the award of $5,233,303.29 to the City of Cleveland by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funding will be used to repair stone revetment along the shoreline of Lake Erie that was damaged during Hurricane Sandy. The revetment protects an airport runway at Burke Lakefront Airport. “Hurricane Sandy damaged buildings and infrastructure throughout our region including critical barriers on the coast of Lake Erie, some of which remain in need of repair,” said Kaptur. “This funding will go a long way to ensuring uninterrupted services at the Burke Lakefront Airport, maintaining an important link for tourism and commerce in our region. I applaud FEMA for recognizing the importance of this infrastructure to the entire Cleveland area.” This award provides funding for repair of twenty (20) sections of a three thousand three hundred (3300) foot stone revetment along the shoreline of Lake Erie. This funding is authorized under Section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Act. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.13.2015	Bill would spur federal strategic planning and guidance for local officials WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur cheered progress yesterday on legislation to address algal blooms, which she co-sponsors with Rep. Bob Latta. The bill advanced through the Energy and Commerce Committee yesterday and may now be presented for consideration by the full House. This is the latest in a series of recent wins for this legislation, which would establish an accelerated federal government response to algal blooms. Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Last year’s water crisis revealed major problems with our water security, and we continue to face the threat that this kind of environmental event could happen again,”said Kaptur. “To coordinate an effective response, state and local officials need clear guidance from authorities on safe consumption limits, testing protocols, and treatment options.” Kaptur added, “Congress faltered on legislation to address this problem last year but bipartisan support is growing and today took a major step forward. I will continue to work to enact this legislation alongside fellow legislators Senators Brown and Portman and Representative Latta. As we enter another season of toxic blooms, we must do all we can to combat these events and the dangerous algal toxins that they add to our water.” Representative Kaptur was recently elected to serve as a new Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. She has sponsored algal bloom response legislation since the 2014 Lake Erie water crisis. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.13.2015	TOLEDO, OH—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to news that the U.S. Postal Service is moving forward with shutting down its sorting facility in Toledo: “I deeply regret this decision by the Board of Governors of the US Postal Service. Despite our repeated attempts to retain services in Toledo, again the Board has backhanded our Postal Workers at the sorting facility. The Board of Governors of the Postal Service, and certain Members of Congress, are responsible for this latest blow to the Postal Service in our community and region. For too long, the Board has not been acting in our nation's best interests. Many recent Board appointees hold private interests that conflict with the time-tested public service interests of the Postal Service mandate to deliver affordable universal service to all Americans equally. Rather than fix the law that has forced unreasonable budget cuts across our fine Postal Service, the Board is choosing to allow unwarranted layoffs in communities like Toledo, reducing local services and increasing unemployment and hardship. The Board continues to force an unrealistic policy requiring pre-funding of health benefits for postal workers at levels far greater than any other organization in our society. This is completely unfair and unjustified. I am a co-sponsor of bipartisan legislation, House Resolution 54, to restore USPS service standards to the level they were at before the Board of Governors imposed its misguided and degrading cuts to those services. The postal workers at the Toledo sorting facility have earned recognition for their hard work and skill, consistently receiving ratings of Excellence nationally. In my judgment, the Postal Service Board of Governors needs to be the target of complete overhaul, not the hard-working local postal service providers.” Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to the news that a cease-fire agreement was agreed to in eastern Ukraine: “We hope for peaceful resolution from this agreement, but we must also be mindful of Russia’s historical pattern of cease fire violations. I still cannot fathom why Russia, a nation that has lost tens of millions of its citizens to war and forced starvation over the last century, does not do more to pursue peaceful means of achieving its goals. Russia is at a crossroads: it can choose to be a force for peace and prosperity, and join with Ukraine in raising the quality of life for people throughout the region, or it can continue to be a source of instability, violence, and bloodshed. Our world faces many economic and strategic challenges. We must respond to those challenges by supporting strong alliances among all the nations of Europe, whether North, South, East or West.” Contact: Matt Sonneborn, (202) 225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.10.2015	Funding supports R&D for safety upgrades to Cleveland area bus system WASHINGTON—Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced $2,741,617 in funding through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to research and implement an integrated transit safety system designed to reduce traffic collisions in the Cleveland area. The project will incorporate in-vehicle and infrastructure components to support the safe operation of transit buses in the Cleveland area and is a collaborative effort between the Battelle Memorial Institute and the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority. “Modern transportation systems are more than concrete and steel, as this project shows,” said Rep. Kaptur.“This funding supports the development of new transportation tools with the potential to improve service, reduce congestion and upgrade overall safety. The selection of this project for funding is great news for Cleveland, its residents and commuters, the companies that do business here, and all those whose work will make the project possible. The Battelle Memorial Institute and the Cleveland Regional Transit Authority are to be applauded for their initiative in advancing this project.” Rep. Fudge added, “over half of households in some neighborhoods within the 11th Congressional District do not own a car. The continued safety of thousands of residents, workers and students, who depend solely on public transit each day, is very important. I am pleased that RTA and the Battelle Memorial Institute’s commitment to transit safety in our region is being recognized at the highest levels. This investment in our transportation infrastructure will ensure the safety of our transit buses for future generations of riders and pedestrians.” Ben Pierce, manager of Battelle’s Critical Infrastructure Transportation Operations, responded to news of the grant. “Battelle is very excited to continue our partnership with RTA to bring the next generation of connected vehicle technology to Ohio to improve the safety of not only the transit riders but also pedestrians and other drivers alike.” According to the FTA, the project was competitively selected as part of the Federal Transit Administration’s 5312 Innovative Safety, Resilience, and All-Hazards Emergency Response and Recovery Demonstration program. Contact: Matt Sonneborn (Kaptur), 202-225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov Belinda Prinz (Fudge), 216-522-4900 or Belinda.Prinz@mail.house.gov ###
02.07.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to the tragic and untimely passing of Congressman Alan Nunnelee: “Please allow me to express my deepest sympathy to Alan’s wife Tori, his children Emily, Nathan and Reed, as well as his many Mississippi constituents, dedicated staff, friends and associates. My heartfelt condolences on the passing of Congressman Alan Nunnelee from this life on behalf of the people of Ohio and our colleagues on our Appropriations subcommittee on Energy and Water. Congress holds in highest esteem those individuals who remain true to the principle of liberty and to the duty of serving the people who elect them. Alan Nunnelee was one of those individuals. He worked for many years in the service of his constituents and made a difference in the lives of every person he touched. His kind nature, good humor, and gentlemanly manner radiated as a constant, effervescent force and I am grateful to have had the privilege of serving alongside him. May the angels lift his spirit and bring comfort to all those who grieve this deep loss. May the good works Alan did inspire others to carry on in beneficent tradition for years to come.” Contact: Matt Sonneborn, 202-225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.07.2015	WASHINGTON--Yesterday Members of the Great Lakes Congressional delegation voted to elect Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) to serve as Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force (GLTF). She joins fellow Co-Chairs Representatives Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Candice Miller (R-MI), and Sean Duffy (R-WI). The GLTF is a bipartisan working group focusing on issues impacting the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes region. “The Great Lakes are an ecological treasure and a major economic driver for our region,” said Rep. Kaptur. “This unparalleled resource regularly faces environmental threats such as algal blooms and Asian carp as well as long-term concerns that include aging infrastructure, upgrading industrial manufacturing capacity and expanding tourism. I am eager to advance big ideas that will safeguard this resource, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and fellow Co-Chairs to improve and promote our irreplaceable Great Lakes region.” “Representative Kaptur is a close friend and a strong ally when it comes to Great Lakes issues,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter, a long-serving Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “After algal blooms disrupted the water supply in Toledo, she sprang into action and secured extra funding to combat algae in the Great Lakes. I know she will be a strong defender of the Great Lakes, and welcome her as a co-chair of our bipartisan task force.” “I welcome Rep. Kaptur as one of our new Co-Chairs on this bipartisan, bicameral group of members dedicated to protecting the Great Lakes. Kaptur has been a fierce advocate of our Magnificent Great Lakes, and I look forward to continuing our work together on the Task Force,” said Rep. Candice Miller, a longstanding Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. Rep . Sean Duffy (WI-07) offered, "Rep. Kaptur has been a great advocate for Ohioans on Great Lakes issues and I look forward to working with her in her newly expanded role as a Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. The Task Force has provided critical support for Great Lakes economic development, shipping and commerce, and conservation initiatives. She will be a great asset for our efforts to restore and protect these beautiful and economically important waters." In her first speech to the Task Force as a Co-Chair, Representative Kaptur highlighted the importance of the Saint Lawrence Seaway, the need for investments in transportation and infrastructure, emerging concerns regarding Nonpoint Source Pollution, and the importance of strategic initiatives that position the Great Lakes to be globally competitive. Representing a district that includes the largest stretch of Lake Erie’s coastline, Congresswoman Kaptur has long fought for Great Lakes priorities. As a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, she has helped fund key regional programs including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. She also assumed a leading role in addressing and preventing toxic algal blooms in the lakes following a three-day water emergency in her hometown of Toledo. The House Great Lakes Task Force was founded in the mid-1980s and is associated with the Northeast-Midwest Institute. Working together, the Great Lakes Task Force builds support for key regional programs, coordinates efforts to provide agency oversight, and advances legislative initiatives and funding priorities. Contact: Matt Sonneborn, 202-225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
02.06.2015	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement in response to the tragic passing of Toledo Mayor D. Michael Collins: "D. Michael Collins --sworn into office one year ago as the 62nd Mayor of Toledo, Ohio -- took to heart the words "duty" and "honor." An Irish-American son from the South End of Toledo, his entire adult life and works were dedicated to serving our community and country. Upon high school graduation, he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps attaining the rank of Corporal. Until his passing, every day he lived the motto of the Corps, Semper Fidelis, "Always Faithful." When he returned home from military service, he continued serving his community as a police officer for nearly three decades. He was elected President of the Toledo Police Patrolmen's Association. He first ran for City Council in 2007 and quickly earned a reputation as a problem solver with deep knowledge of the City's finances and budget. He ran for Mayor in 2013 in a heavily contested race, won with broad public support and was sworn into his first term. Mayor Collins lived the City's motto "Laborare est Orare--" to work and to pray. He assiduously applied himself to every task he undertook. Throughout his life, he was an indefatigable learner attaining many degrees that served him well in his leadership roles. He also taught at his alma mater, the University of Toledo. During his year as Mayor, he shepherded the City through three major crises: the tragic loss of two firefighters in an arson-related fire, the shutoff of City water for three days due to contamination by algal blooms in Lake Erie due to cyanotoxins, and, most recently, a level 3 snow emergency. Through it all, Mayor Collins' steady leadership, humble manner, and broad smile gave confidence to the public. On behalf of our entire community, please let me extend my deepest condolences to his beloved wife Sandy, who was always at his side, and to his daughters and grandchildren. May our community turn grief to good works as Mayor Collins would wish. Our citizenry has been blessed to know him and work with him. May God bless him and bring him peaceful rest." Contact: Matt Sonneborn, 202-225-4146 or Matt.Sonneborn@mail.house.gov ###
01.27.2015	TOLEDO, OH -- In preparation for the debate over renewal of President Obama’s Trade Promotion Authority, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) sought assistance from constituents to gather personal narratives of individuals whose jobs were outsourced by past trade agreements. A House Trade Working Group plans to include the voices of individuals affected by past agreements in the debate to emphasize that the old North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) trade model has undercut the bargaining power of American workers and cannot be expected to produce different results if new agreements are negotiated under the same model. In releasing a letter requesting personal narratives, Kaptur acknowledged: “Little has affected me more in my work than the stories and personal narratives of displaced workers, the impact of lost jobs as factories close, and of families struggling to survive when jobs are shipped overseas. More than half of all Representatives currently serving have not served during debate of a free trade agreement, having been elected after 2007 when the last Trade Promotion Authority expired. It is imperative these members hear the impact trade agreements have had on Americans before we allow two more trade agreements based on the same broken model to advance. This time we face drastically larger agreements and are being asked to simply slip them through both the House and Senate without intricate scrutiny. “It is our responsibility to ensure the individuals and communities across the nation that bear the scars from broken promises of free trade deals are not overlooked. I aim to take their stories to the Floor of the House for America to hear.”Those interested in sharing their own experience, are urged to send an 1-2 page summary to Congresswoman Kaptur at: Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Attn: Trade Personal Narrative 1 Maritime Plaza, 6th Floor Toledo, Ohio 43604 If you need assistance in sharing your experience, staff will be happy to assist in the process and to address any questions or concern. Please call 1-800-9OHIO99. Trade Promotion Authority would allow the executive branch to submit completed trade agreements to Congress for a straight up-or-down vote, eliminating the ability to offer amendments to alter the agreements. The need for TPA is of particular importance to President Obama as negotiations for two such trade agreements written in the old NAFTA model are currently under negotiation. The first, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is between the United States and 11 Pacific-Rim nations and is nearing completion. The second, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) is a mega-regional negotiation with the European Union. ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today reintroduced legislation directing the federal EPA to publish a health advisory on microcystin, a toxic byproduct of harmful algal blooms. The bill would provide threatened municipalities guidance on safe consumption limits, testing protocols, and treatment methods. The bill had to be reintroduced this Congress after her similar bill in the 113th Congress did not get a vote in the House. “We cannot let our communities go blindly into another season of toxic algal blooms without some further guidance from the U.S. EPA,” said Kaptur. “Five months since our water was shut off on the shores of Lake Erie, our officials are still looking for answers and have no better standards for measurement than they did last August,” Kaptur added. Kaptur’s bill, H.R. 243, would direct the US EPA within 90 days to publish, as an interim measure, an advisory that would help inform and educate local and state officials while EPA continues to work on a federal standard for microsystin in drinking water. Despite requests that state and federal regulators set microcystin limits in drinking water, local water plant operators rely on World Health Organization guidance instead of US EPA science. The EPA has been developing a federal limit for years, but has yet to issue one. Kaptur introduced the measure the same week Representatives returned to Washington for a new Congress. “We cannot waste any time with the next algae season rapidly approaching,” said Kaptur. A similar bill was derailed by an unnamed Congressman last December, despite bipartisan support and after unanimous passage through the Senate. Congresswoman Kaptur said she hopes reintroducing the bill will prod US EPA to act on its own and issue long-awaited standards on drinking water for areas affected by toxic algae blooms. “I hope our bill expedites the work on drinking water standards and offers some measure of assurance to communities affected by microsystin that the best science that is available is being brought to bear,” she said. Kaptur was joined in introducing the bipartisan bill by Representatives Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio), John Conyers (D-Michigan), Marcia Fudge (D-Ohio), Brian Higgins (D-New York), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Sander Levin (D- Michigan), Candice Miller (R- Michigan), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-Washington, DC), Mike Quigley (D-Illinois), Tim Ryan (D- Ohio), and Louise Slaughter (D-New York). ###
01.08.2015	The Capitol, Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) joined House colleagues, worker and environmental activists, business leaders, and consumer advocates to show the breadth of opposition to the Fast Track Trade Authority. A proposal to grant these powers to the Administration, which would allow trade agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) to be railroaded through Congress with little debate or transparency, is expected to be unveiled early this year. Congresswoman Kaptur gave the following statement: “I am thrilled to join all of my wonderful colleagues most of whom are junior to me in this institution and did not live through the NAFTA fight. “We said on that consequential evening here in the Capitol as it rained outside and John Sweeney walked up the stairs while the largest global corporations commanded a central command room in the base of the Capitol itself, ‘America will remember this night.’ “And we remember. And the people we represent remember. “We know this is a big struggle and we know this is our moment to stop fast track and the outsourcing of millions of more jobs from this country. Since NAFTA passed -- this is an incredible figure -- the United States has racked up $9.5 trillion in trade deficits, and a loss of 47,500,000 out sourced jobs. “The workers in Northern Ohio have seen the loss of over 5 million manufacturing jobs, and wages have dropped for the average family some $7000 a year. I have stood in places along with my colleagues, like Ohio and Michigan Avenues at the maquiladora in Northern Mexico where Trico, out of Buffalo, relocated windshield wiper manufacturing. Then then we visited the homes of the Mexican workers who worked for penny wage jobs and lived in squalor. What kind of a gift is that to the world? “I have stood in Vietnam, watching children, little boys, under age and standing with bare feet, on the rim of bowls that they were sanding and spraying with lacquer and breathing in all of those fumes. Hurting their own health in the name of future exports to the United States. And today as I stand here, as an Ohioan, two plants, U.S. Steel in Lorain, Ohio has announced over 700 layoffs and a company called Hugo Boss, which is a German company which has an outlet in Brooklyn, Ohio, has given pink slips to over 170 workers. If you go into a Hugo Boss outlet in your community, you can buy suits that cost $1200. The workers in my district have taken a 17% pay cut and that wasn’t good enough. “So I am here to say, this is a day of reckoning. I am so proud to be with my colleagues, all those who have been elected and are fighting to add justice, economic justice, to the way this nation conducts its business. I am proud to oppose fast track and to support fair trade. We must correct the wrongs that this free trade regiment exacts on the American people and our dear friends around the globe.”
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today opposed a measure advanced by majority Republicans in the House to combine non-controversial technical amendments with more controversial legislation sought by Wall Street special interests. The bill, H.R. 37, would allow for a two year delay in implementation of the Volker Rule, prohibiting banks from engaging in risky stock speculation with taxpayer-backed funds, a practice that directly led to the 2008 economic disaster. H.R. 37 would also dangerously limit regulatory authority to police financial markets and allow private companies to compensate their employees up to $20 million in company securities, an increase from $5 million, without having to provide the employees with certain basic financial disclosures regarding their employer. “It's no secret that Wall Street and its financial interests are the largest contributors to Congressional and Presidential campaigns. So it should come as no surprise that one of the first Christmas tree bills the Republican-led House takes up after the new Congress has been sworn in would convey more power to Wall Street to harm Main Street and roll back provisions that are designed to protect families and our financial systems,” said Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee. “This bill -- a hodgepodge of 11 separate bills -- should be sent back to Committee for full debate and amendment rather than being brought up under a procedure that doesn't allow floor debate and prohibits amendments. The American people, some who have lost their life savings, their jobs and their dignity during the 2008 financial disaster, deserve better than a rubber stamp for Wall Street,” Kaptur continued. “Instead of joining House Democrats and supporting bills that lift up all Americans, House Republicans would rather go back to the days of sub-prime mortgages, risky Wall Street schemes and giveaways for their most loyal campaign contributors. That sure didn’t take long.” Kaptur concluded.
01.07.2015	Statement from Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) On the Occasion of the Swearing-In of the 114th Congress of the United States Washington, DC – Today’s pleasant dusting of snow on the Capitol reminds us that new beginnings offer hope of new luster and possibility. With the opening of a new Congress, and as the U.S. economy continues to make progress, we know well that too many Americans remain unemployed, under-employed, or working multiple jobs to just make ends barely meet. We know that the American public wants a Congress committed to progress in growing our economy and insuring good-paying jobs for everyone. For families and workers in Ohio’s 9th district, meeting the realities of rising costs for education, child care, food, housing and other daily necessities is increasingly difficult with stagnant wages that have plagued our middle-class for a decade. Without growing consumer confidence and better incomes that support economic growth, we cannot expect to yield a robust middle class. The road to American economic might can be pursued by a spectrum of policies that support a growing economy, starting with passage of legislation to modernize our transportation and infrastructure. We can build on our precious natural resources, promote educational attainment and skills development at all levels, and ensure that another generation of young Americans doesn’t start its productive lives saddled by skyrocketing student loan debt. The new Congress must also focus on the health of our environment. In August of 2014, astoundingly, 500,000 residents of Ohio and Michigan had no access to clean drinking water for three days. We must ensure that the resources are available to make sure that our most precious, vital, and abundant sustainable resource is protected. We must work together to find solutions that will protect our citizens, our environment, and our economy. I will continue to fight, as I have throughout my career, to ensure that our trade agreements work for America and her workers, not job-outsourcers. This Congress will have a long lasting impact on the future direction of our economy and the future of every working class and middle class American family. Every trade agreement the United States has signed in the last thirty years has ultimately resulted in fewer jobs for American workers and huge trade deficits for our nation. From coast to coast, good paying jobs have left our shores for countries that do not have the protections ensured to the American worker. First and foremost, our trade agreements must mean more American jobs, not fewer. If we were truly opening up markets, then workers in the United States would be benefiting from the opportunity these agreements purportedly create. Clearly they are not. I look forward to advancing our national discussion on reforming immigration in the United States. Fixing our broken immigration system will mean justice to people who contribute to the American way of life but are forced into the shadows, because the labor and regular enforcement system is breaking down. We can make it harder for drug cartels and labor traffickers to cross the border and easier for families to remain intact with reasoned discussion and a logical, legal process that respects workers and families. America must become energy independent again. We are making progress on exploring and developing creative energy solutions to modernize our options. Lowering energy costs, in some sectors, while also lifting thousands into the middle class by offering well-paid employment opportunities. Agriculture remains Ohio’s most productive sector. I am hopeful that we can continue to further advance agricultural options that provide economic opportunity and employment, including increased healthy nutrition options for underserved communities, both urban and rural. This is no time to scale back our commitment to a healthy, domestically sourced food supply that creates jobs and income in America. I hold a particular commitment to reform, modernize, and provide resources and treatment to our mentally ill to help them lead more rewarding lives. Let us break the cycle of untreated illness and arrest that far too many fall into. All too often, our local jails become treatment facilities; most are not prepared to take on this responsibility. Innovative solutions will assure these citizens find mental health services, not jail cells and homelessness. I look forward to working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure we are re-building an economy that is strong and built to last by investing in our youth, our infrastructure, and our outstanding workforce; so that America’s full promise can be realized.
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), now the longest serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives and the longest serving Democratic woman in U.S. history will participate in today’s opening session of the 114th Congress. As she is sworn to her 17th term in office representing Ohio’s 9th District, she will join 103 other women who are being sworn in the House and Senate today -- the highest number of women serving in the Congress in history. As senior woman in the House, Congresswoman Kaptur will serve as the chief Democratic Tally Clerk as members of the House formally vote to elect the Speaker of the 114th Congress. As dean of the Ohio Democratic delegation, Kaptur will also serve as a member of the Escort Committee that will accompany the Speaker of the House to the Speaker’s Rostrum following the election. “I am honored to serve as a member of the Speaker’s Escort Committee as well as the Democratic Tally Clerk for the 114th Congress,” Kaptur said. “This Congress must tackle weighty issues that matter to America’s families and workers. I look forward to spirited debate. As we begin this Session the voices and aspirations of the American People must be reflected in the actions of its elected leaders. Let us usher in a new spirit of constructive partnership to move America forward and fully heal our economy,” Kaptur said.
12.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 18, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur announced that the U.S. Department of Energy today selected two Northeast Ohio organizations to promote the development of energy from hydrogen and fuel cells. Congresswoman Kaptur, ranking member on the Energy and Water Subcommittee of House Appropriations, said the Cleveland-based Westside Industrial Retention & Expansion Network (WIRE-net) has been awarded $695,000 and Ohio Fuel Cell Coalition, headquartered at Lorain County Community College (LCCC), $450,000 through the federal Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative. The only other project that the Energy Department announced was the Virginia Clean Cities Initiative at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va. “WIRE-net and the Fuel Cell Coalition are pushing the edge of the envelope on manufacturing competitiveness for hydrogen and fuel cells,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The bottom line is competitiveness in a tough global marketplace,” said Kaptur. “The strategy behind the Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative is to leverage our manufacturing know-how with supply chain innovations. This is how Make in America will help our nation achieve energy independence.” With its federal award, WIRE-net will complete a detailed manufacturing analysis of fuel cell systems, both automotive and stationary, along with high-pressure hydrogen storage systems and fuel cell subsystems and components. The analysis will span systems and components manufactured in the U.S., Europe and Asia to identify best current manufacturing processes, key factors that determine competitiveness, and potential ways to cut costs. WIRE-net is a manufacturing consortium serving businesses in Cuyahoga, Lorain, Lake, Medina, Geauga, Portage and Summit counties. The Ohio Fuel Cell Coalition, based at LCCC, will develop a robust supply chain model for fuel cell and hydrogen storage systems that will accelerate mass production while also reducing cost and improving performance and durability. The Coalition will establish an integrated network of four Regional Technical Exchange Centers to increase communication between original equipment manufacturers and component suppliers. It will also establish a nationwide database, accessible on the web, that will contain input from manufacturers and suppliers as well as a supplier contact list. The Coalition consists of industry, academic and government leaders with the goal of positioning Northeast Ohio as a global leader in fuel cell technology. Congresswoman Kaptur said the Department of Energy under Secretary Ernest Moniz is focused on creating a dynamic supply chain that will allow technologies to grow. The two Ohio projects, she said, will support activities to develop and expand the domestic supply chain of components and systems to manufacture and scale up hydrogen and fuel cell systems in the United States.
12.18.2014	TOLEDO (Dec. 18, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur, ranking member on the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee, welcomed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency decision to commit an additional $3.1 million in federal funding to combat harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. The additional funding comes on top of $8.6 million that was made available to state agencies in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana last October. “The conditions that caused the Toledo water crisis last August have not changed materially,” Kaptur said. “The algae season is over, but the threat remains, so we have to be vigilant about protecting our community and saving Lake Erie.” U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-Michigan) called the algal blooms in Lake Erie “an environmental crisis that deserves our attention … I’m happy to see this additional funding made available.” The USEPA said it will direct $3.1 million from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) to three other federal agencies and the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development to expand efforts to reduce phosphorus runoff into Lake Erie. The EPA said it was making the funding available now so that priority projects can be implemented prior to the 2015 algae season. The new grantees include: National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration ($1 million) and the U.S. Geological Survey ($900,000) to improve harmful algal bloom forecasting and water quality testing. The Natural Resources and Conservation Service, an arm of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, approximately $1 million to encourage farmers in the Western Lake Erie Basin to adopt conservation practices; and The Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (approximately $197,000) to improve nutrient management on Michigan farms.
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON- During a June markup of the Financial Services appropriations bill, Congresswoman Kaptur stood out as one of three members to oppose a controversial amendment by Kansas Republican Kevin Yoder. The controversial Yoder rider to the omnibus spending bill eliminates the requirement for banks to separate trades of financial derivatives from traditional banking activity, which is insured by public dollars through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Trading in derivatives such as credit-default swaps contributed to the 2008 financial collapse. Here is Kaptur's full statement that was made in the subcommittee markup six months ago: "I rise in opposition to the gentleman’s amendment. I’m not sure 100% of the Members of this Committee fully comprehend everything that is being included and excluded in the gentleman’s amendment. So for example, if I’m on the proper amendment, you distinguish between “insured depository” institutions and changing the language to “covered depository” institutions. What is the full implication of the substitution of those words? Who does it include, who does it exclude? You talk about bona fide hedging and traditional bank activities. One of the ways we got into trouble in this country was in moving away from true commodities markets to financially transacting false money. That’s what happened in 2000 when traditional banking was thrown out. And so I find it very interesting what the gentleman is trying to do here on an appropriations bill. "I’d like to know who is really behind this. Who has enough power to try to bring this before this Committee? And I have some imaginations on who that might be. "When the traditional manner of handling real money and commodities was thrown out in 2000, it was done in a bill that came here in a conference report--and most members didn't even know what they were voting on. And then 2008 happened just a few years after that. "Our country got in trouble when we started financializing the value of true commodities. If you look at the price of oil today, you’ll find that a good 40-70 bucks of a barrel is actually not true value. It is merely what Wall Street has done to create false value and is causing consumers to pay so much more per gallon for every gallon of gasoline that they buy. There is something really striking that has happened in the last decade in terms of the way that we use to value real money and real commodities inside this country. "I think what the gentleman is trying to do is really dangerous and it doesn’t belong in this Committee. I urge my colleagues to vote strongly “no” against this amendment. "And ask yourself the question (of) who is really trying to do this on an appropriations bill?"
12.10.2014	U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur’s statement on the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Reauthorization December 9, 2014 Since the creation of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, our nation has made strides in reviving and protecting our nation’s greatest freshwater treasure—our Great Lakes. Under the GLRI, we have supported more than 2,000 projects, removed 42 health impairments from 17 contaminated sites, and delisted finished work at six toxic areas of concern. Still, for our many achievements, this summer we received a stark reminder of unfinished challenges—as a toxic algal bloom shut off the fresh drinking water to over half a million people and businesses in Ohio and Michigan for three days across Lake Erie’s Western basin, the largest watershed in the Great Lakes. The public, though shocked, was orderly and beneficent. We didn’t have riots or civil disorder. During the three-day crisis, we learned communities along the lake were not equipped locally to test the water so vital to their survival. Two days were wasted sending and resending vials and samples five hours away and back. It’s obvious that what we’ve done is far from what is necessary. Just four counties West of Lake Erie, Grand Lake St. Mary’s is all but dead, steeped in a toxic brew of E. Coli and algae. Nothing tried to date has fixed it. The handwriting on the wall is clear. More procrastination is not a solution. Proper testing equipment is fundamental. Fundamental. The Lake Erie community needs its own water testing equipment and certified lab. Already local universities and health departments have assembled key components of necessary equipment for a certified lab. It is incumbent upon GLRI to provide the $147 million needed for the remaining equipment—it must deliver. To date, the lack of response from our federal agencies is astounding—this is an emergency. Moreover, I see federal agencies diverting hundreds of millions of dollars for dams in Afghanistan, yet somehow the EPA can’t identify the funds to protect the American people who live along Lake Erie and draw their life source from it. To date, the lackadaisical behavior of our federal agencies is astounding. When the crisis occurred, US EPA didn’t even show up nor have personnel on the ground. Where was Homeland Security funding to help during and after the crisis? As far as I’m concerned, they were asleep at the wheel, and they still are. As we prepare for a new spring thaw and the rains that will come, GLRI presents an alternative to the agency dithering I have experienced throughout this harrowing environmental crisis. ###
12.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 321,000 jobs and the unemployment rate held at 5.8 percent, the lowest unemployment rate since July 2008. With businesses adding 314,000 jobs, this marks the 58th consecutive month of private sector job growth. “Last month, our economy made strong progress – building on the longest uninterrupted stretch of private sector job creation in our history. Yet with many middle class families still struggling, it is clear the last thing our economy needs is another Republican Government Shutdown that will undermine the confidence and stability of hardworking men and women across the country. “The last time Republicans shut down the federal government, their recklessness cost our economy $24 billion and 120,000 jobs. After 16 days keeping government closed and threatening to have the United States of America default on our obligations for the first time ever, 144 Republicans voted for default and against reopening the government. Today, as they continue to threaten another shutdown crisis, Republicans should remember the cost of their irresponsibility to the economic security of millions of American families. “Now is the time to invest in our infrastructure, expand access to quality education, and fuel the research and innovation that will energize our economy and raise the wages of the middle class. Democrats will continue to stand against another Republican Government Shutdown, and call on Republicans to abandon their threats and come together with us to create jobs, expand opportunity and build an economy that works for everyone – not just the wealthy and well connected.”
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 4, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur joined 10 House colleagues to introduce the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 to provide aid to Ukraine. The bill would provide humanitarian, military and energy assistance to the struggling nation while imposing additional sanctions on Russia. Rep. Kaptur said, “As co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, my colleagues and I have continued to witness Russia’s aggression towards Ukraine, which not only disregards Ukraine’s right to independence and territorial integrity, but destabilizes all of Europe and in turn, creates a grim national security situation for the United States. Unlike other measures, our bill aims to directly assist Ukraine’s military to defend her homeland, a right Ukraine is entitled to. Without serious efforts like this one, Russia will continue to push the boundaries of freedom, literally and metaphorically.” “It’s critical we continue to increase pressure on Mr. Putin while deterring future Russian aggression in Ukraine,” said Rep. Pascrell. “The people of Ukraine have suffered for too long at the hands of pro-Russian separatists, who continue to threaten stability and security in the region. This legislation is an important step towards reaffirming the United States’ commitment to helping the people of Ukraine defend themselves and preserve their territorial integrity.” Rep. Quigley said, “Ukraine is facing an existential threat from Russian aggression. The people of Ukraine are fighting for democracy and the United States stands behind them in their efforts. I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act, and continuing to aid the government of Ukraine as it works to restore its sovereignty and territorial integrity.” “The Ukrainian people have demonstrated incredible resilience in the face of hostility by Russia, and they should know that these actions to sow chaos, destruction, and instability in Eastern Ukraine and in the wider Eastern European region have not gone unnoticed by the U.S. Congress,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. “This bill is an expression of our support for the freedom and prosperity of the Ukrainian people as they defend their sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the right to determine their own future. It includes additional sanctions and assistance as well as provisions to strengthen Ukrainian civil society, support independent media, and reduce corruption. The United States will continue to stand with the government and people of Ukraine.” Original cosponsors include: Rep. Eliot Engel, (D-NY), Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Rep. Steve Stockman (R-TX), Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA) and Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA)
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON (December 3, 2014)--Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, along with a group of 10 bipartisan colleagues introduced HR. 5782 the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, the House companion bill to S. 2828, to provide for additional assistance to Ukraine, in the forms of humanitarian, energy and defense, while imposing additional sanctions on the Russian Federation. Rep. Kaptur said, “As co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, my colleagues and I have continued to witness Russia’s aggression towards Ukraine, which not only disregards Ukraine’s right to independence and territorial integrity, but destabilizes all of Europe and in turn, creates a grim national security situation for the United States. Unlike other measures, our bill aims to directly assist Ukraine’s military to defend her homeland, a right Ukraine is entitled to. Without serious efforts like this one, Russia will continue to push the boundaries of freedom, literally and metaphorically.” “It’s critical we continue to increase pressure on Mr. Putin while deterring future Russian aggression in Ukraine,” said Rep. Pascrell. “The people of Ukraine have suffered for too long at the hands of pro-Russian separatists, who continue to threaten stability and security in the region. This legislation is an important step towards reaffirming the United States’ commitment to helping the people of Ukraine defend themselves and preserve their territorial integrity.” Rep. Quigley said, “Ukraine is facing an existential threat from Russian aggression. The people of Ukraine are fighting for democracy and the United States stands behind them in their efforts. I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act, and continuing to aid the government of Ukraine as it works to restore its sovereignty and territorial integrity.” “The Ukrainian people have demonstrated incredible resilience in the face of hostility by Russia, and they should know that these actions to sow chaos, destruction, and instability in Eastern Ukraine and in the wider Eastern European region have not gone unnoticed by the U.S. Congress,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. “This bill is an expression of our support for the freedom and prosperity of the Ukrainian people as they defend their sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the right to determine their own future. It includes additional sanctions and assistance as well as provisions to strengthen Ukrainian civil society, support independent media, and reduce corruption. The United States will continue to stand with the government and people of Ukraine.” Original cosponsors include: Rep. Eliot Engel, (D-NY), Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Rep. Steve Stockman (R-TX), Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA) and Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA)
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 20, 2014) Congresswoman Kaptur today welcomed the announcement by the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) of a consent decree with the city of Lima regarding untreated sewer discharges. “This settlement comes as good news for Lake Erie,” said Kaptur. “The Ottawa River in Allen County is one of the major waterways in the entire Maumee River watershed.” Terms of the proposed consent decree, which was filed yesterday in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, will involve a $147 million construction project by the city of Lima to upgrade its wastewater treatment infrastructure. Lima will double its wastewater treatment capacity from 30 million gallons a day to 70 million. It will also construct a new 13-million gallon storage tank to reduce sewer overflows. Kaptur said the federal government should “work with communities such as Lima to explore means to lighten the financial burden of these long-term critical projects.” Kaptur said the settlement is subject to a 30-day public comment period and final court approval.
10.29.2014	TOLEDO (October 29, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur today announced federal awards totaling $775,000 for the Toledo Fair Housing Center to fight foreclosure and mortgage abuse in the city. Kaptur made the announcement along with Michael Marsh, president and CEO of Fair Housing Opportunities of Northwest Ohio, at the North Toledo residence of a homeowner who was helped by the federal programs. “I am so pleased to announce these awards for the Fair Housing Center, which is the main line of defense for struggling homeowners in Toledo,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “The Fair Housing Center is helping stabilize neighborhoods and rebuild our city through its staunch defense of homeowners against foreclosure and mortgage abuse.” “It is imperative that the federal government support fair housing activities,” Mr. Marsh said. “This funding is critical because while passing the Fair Housing Act demonstrated the government’s belief in equal housing opportunity, offering no means for funding fair housing activities would simply make the law a paper tiger. Just as the Civil Rights Act of 1866 lay dormant for almost a full century, lack of monetary support would render the Fair Housing Act just as futile. By providing funding, the government makes clear its commitment to fair housing.” The Fair Housing Center received a $325,000 annual award for victim assistance, complaint investigation, outreach, monitoring and foreclosure prevention. In addition, it will receive $325,000 to remedy mortgage abuses that have led to the foreclosure epidemic. The center seeks to prevent foreclosures by assisting homeowners with delinquent mortgages and taxes. A third grant, for $125,000, will facilitate education and outreach by the Fair Housing Center. # # #
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 21, 2014) In a letter to Ohio college administrators, Congresswoman Kaptur and two House colleagues urged increased attention to the issue of sexual assault on campus. Kaptur, along with Congresswomen Marcia Fudge and Joyce Beatty, encouraged administrators to partner with local, state and national organizations that work against sexual violence. “It is exciting for students to begin college, but entering campus life has risks that for too long have been swept under the rug and are not discussed amongst students or administrators,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “One in five college students will experience some type of sexual violence. That is unacceptable. The safety of Ohio’s students must be our top priority.” Kaptur, Fudge and Beatty focused on three pieces of federal legislation: Title IX, the Clery Act, and the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. The Campus Sexual Violence Elimination (Campus SAVE) Act, which is part of the landmark Violence Against Women Act, builds on provisions of the Clery Act that require colleges and universities to provide annual statistics on crime on and around campus. Congresswoman Fudge said: “I firmly believe we can significantly reduce if not eliminate sexual violence on college campuses in Ohio through greater transparency, stronger links between universities and community agencies that work with survivors of sexual violence and improved policies that encourage reporting of sexual assault.” Congresswoman Beatty said, “Our universities and colleges should be leaders in this effort and I commend them for their efforts to help eliminate campus assaults. Our judicial system, educational institutions, other stakeholders must work together to end these brutal acts and create a safe learning environment for every student.” ###
10.20.2014	TOLEDO (Oct. 20, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur joined workers at packed UAW Local 12 hall today to rally for keeping Jeep Wrangler production in Toledo. “It’s a part of our life. It’s our substance,” Kaptur said of the iconic Jeep brand. “Our vehicles have gone to war. We’re part of the core. We hold it together. We make things. And we invent, too. I hope that we can invent the future of the auto industry here.” Kaptur was joined by UAW Region 2 Director Ken Lortz and Local 12 President Bruce Baumhower, along with U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown and a bevy of local officials. The community has rallied to keep production of the Jeep Wrangler in Toledo. Chrysler Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne indicated recently that production might be moved elsewhere if the company proceeds with a proposal to shift to an aluminum unibody construction. “We’re going to get this done,” Baumhower said of efforts to keep Jeep in Toledo. “We’ve done it before and we’re going to do it again.”
10.20.2014	OREGON, Ohio (Oct. 20, 2014 – Welcoming the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regional administrator to Toledo, Congresswoman Kaptur invited the agency to join a partnership to design a comprehensive attack on harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. Administrator Susan Hedman announced $12 million in new federal funding for a variety of initiatives aimed at helping restore the lake to health. Most of the funding is to agricultural producers for such activities as soil testing and analysis for fertilizer recommendations, conservation practices such as cover cropping and controlled drainage structures and construction of manure storage and roofed feedlots. Kaptur singled out another initiative for emphasis: enhanced tributary monitoring on Lake Erie tributaries. “I appreciate the steps that U.S. EPA is taking to help meet our 40 percent nutrient reduction target. But much, more needs to be done to ensure safe drinking water and recreational water conditions,” Kaptur said. Kaptur has called for a strong, federally-led, organizing structure to guide the watershed effort to address the challenge of toxic algae in the lake. An outbreak of toxic algae in the lake’s western basin in early August culminated in the city of Toledo imposing a three-day water ban for 500,000 residents of the service area. “I appreciate agency efforts meeting this crisis head-on,” Kaptur said. “However, I believe that a piecemeal response invites inefficiencies and overlooks opportunities for public and private partnership. We need a comprehensive approach that deals with all contributing factors based on scientific principles.” Kaptur cited several areas that need additional consideration: Establishing a drinking water standard: Kaptur has requested an expedited review process for a setting a microcystin standard for drinking water. She introduced the Safe and Secure Drinking Water Act, which directs the USEPA to publish a microcystin drinking water advisory and report on the review process for establishing permanent guidance. Designating an EPA-certified water testing laboratory: Kaptur has asked the USEPA to establish a near-proximity testing facility to assist water treatment plant operators along Lake Erie’s coast. Ending open-lake disposal of dredged material: Kaptur is co-sponsor of the Protecting Our Great Lakes Act that prohibits open-lake disposal of sediment. Developing a watershed-based nutrient reduction strategy: Kaptur has called for a unified approach to watershed planning that would bring agencies and other stakeholders to the table to work collaboratively on watershed initiatives. Requiring proper manure management: Kaptur has supported a ban on spreading manure on frozen ground, additional review of livestock numbers on the watershed, and manure regulations for large Confined Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs). Improving infrastructure: Kaptur has called for efforts to identify additional funding for research, new technologies and upgrades for wastewater treatment facilities, infrastructure and drinking water treatment facilities. Sampling by citizens: Kaptur has worked with citizens groups to engage the public throughout the watershed on a water-sampling initiative to enlarge the data set for the region. Addressing septic system failure: Kaptur has supported a review of funding and enforcement to address failure of septic systems throughout the watershed. # # #
10.03.2014	TOLEDO (October 3, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur said today she is confident that Fiat Chrysler will keep vehicle production in Toledo and pledged her full commitment to efforts aimed at retaining the iconic Jeep brand. “We have the finest workers in the world at our Jeep plant,” Kaptur said. “They’ve done everything that has been asked of them—and then some. The Jeep workforce in Toledo has put real meaning to the term ‘world-class manufacturing.’ " Fiat Chrysler Automobiles chief Sergio Marchionne said on Thursday the company is discussing a possible shift from steel to aluminum construction for the Jeep Wrangler and that such a move would result in production leaving Toledo. Marchionne also said there would be no job losses at the Toledo assembly plants, which employ approximately 1,700 workers. “We build the leading brands here—the Wrangler and Cherokee,” said Kaptur. “Jeep is in our soul. It’s our tradition and we want it to continue.” Kaptur said she was discussing with local leaders various options to help keep Jeep production in Toledo.
09.30.2014	HURON, Ohio (September 30, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur joined Bowling Green State University President Mary Ellen Mazey in breaking ground for the $15.75 million Allied Health and Sciences Project at the Firelands branch campus here. “The Firelands campus has reached another important milestone in providing quality educational opportunities to the community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Allied Health and Sciences Project aligns the Firelands campus with the demand for highly-trained workers in the health sector.” President Mazey said the project will fulfill immediate campus and student needs while also accommodating the near-term growth of the school. The project began in 2010 when BGSU trustees approved a 25-year master plan for the Firelands campus, which serves both traditional and non-traditional students. When completed, the Allied Health and Sciences project will include a two-story addition to the current North Building, adding critically-needed laboratory space for students in the natural and physical sciences, and renovation of another 35,000 square feet in the North and West buildings. BGSU intends to expand upper-division course offerings that support science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines while acting as the catalyst for new bachelor’s degree programs. Construction is expected to begin in October. # # #
09.29.2014	LORAIN (September 29, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur congratulated Lorain County Community College today on receiving a major federal award for expanded job training in advanced manufacturing technologies. LCCC received a $5.1 million grant from the U.S. Department of Labor to act as the lead college in a consortium of 11 Ohio schools that will offer enhanced work-based training opportunities in the growing field of advanced manufacturing. “Lorain County Community College stands above the crowd once again,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Department of Labor clearly recognizes the LCCC’s Center for Manufacturing Excellence as a model for job growth and economic development,” she said. Kaptur said the funding to LCCC comes in the final year of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training program, a four-year initiative to expand targeted training programs for unemployed workers, especially those impacted by foreign trade. “Our region has clearly borne the brunt of job losses due to globalization and unfair trade agreements, but manufacturing remains the backbone of our economy and advanced manufacturing is the innovative edge. By helping students acquire the demand-driven skills that today’s manufacturing job market values, this award will open the doors to good jobs,” said Kaptur, who serves as ranking member of the Energy and Water subcommittee of House Appropriations. Kaptur said the grant means current employers will find more partnership opportunities with LCCC. “Moreover, potential new businesses can locate in Lorain County with the assurance of finding a deep and well-trained workforce,” she said. The grants announced nationally today mark the last installment in a $2 billion initiative that was launched as part of the Recovery Act, President Obama’s stimulus program. “Congratulations to the leadership at LCCC for winning in a highly competitive round,” Kaptur said. “The investments in Ohio will help prepare local workers with the skills needed for in-demand careers and advance the role of community colleges as engines of economic growth,” said U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez. “They ensure that workers have access to training for the specific skills employers need to stay competitive in the global economy.” Grantees nationally use this funding for a variety of activities, including: hiring or training instructors for courses and certification programs in high demand, such as welding. LCCC, for example, is home to the National Center for Welding Education and Training, a public-private partnership that address training and recruitment issues in an industry facing current and future shortages of qualified workers; developing new curricula and training models to add additional classes and certifications; expanding career pathways in which stackable credentials are linked to industry skills that lead participants to higher-skill jobs. The ‘stackable credentials’ criteria are a focus of the National Association of Manufacturers skills certification program at LCCC that emphasizes basic skills in such sectors as aerospace, alternative energy and computer technology. LCCC provides training in alternative energy through its associate degree program in wind turbine technology, makes advanced manufacturing technology available directly to students, businesses and community members in its digital personal fabrication laboratory (“Fab Lab”), and trains students for high-demand jobs in information technology sectors, including health care, digital forensics, manufacturing, banking and transportation logistics. LCCC is also a member of the Manufacturing Advocacy & Growth Network (MAGNET), a regional collaboration of manufacturers, educational institutions, and economic organizations that champions manufacturing technologies. The other 14 colleges that will share the remaining $19.8 million in grants in Ohio include four institutions that each received $2.5 million: Northwest State Community College in Archbold (industrial automation and advanced manufacturing); Cincinnati State Technical and Community College (supply chain management and logistics); Clark State Community College in Springfield (advanced manufacturing); and, Eastern Gateway Community College in Steubenville (welding and industrial maintenance).
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 18, 2014) - Congresswoman Kaptur said this morning on C-SPAN that the United States should develop a robust diplomatic and military strategy to counter the ISIL radicals in Iraq and Syria and should seek out “legitimate Sunni tribal leaders” who have been excluded from the political conversation in Iraq. Kaptur yesterday voted in favor of arming Syrian rebels against the ISIL radical movement that has captured territory both in Iraq and Syria. “It is important for the United States to be clear on where we stood in terms of ISIL and their gruesome and barbaric tactics,” while avoiding involvement in a Mideast civil war, Kaptur said on the “Morning Journal” program. “The ISIL threat is a reactionary manifestation of the exclusion of Sunnis from the politics of Iraq itself. I view that as critical to both providing counterforce in the region and to being politically representative inside that society. If we actually end up taking sides in a civil war, inadvertently supporting Iran inside of Iraq because we have taken sides, we will lose the Arab Gulf, which is predominately Sunni,” she said. Kaptur noted the difficulty of assembling a coalition as a counterforce to ISIL due to the U.S. opposition to the regime of Bashar el-Assad in Syria. “My concern,” she said, “is that because of the insularity of the Baghdad embassy some the legitimate voices that should be being heard have been excluded inside Iraq and have not been heard.” Kaptur serves as a member of the defense subcommittee of House Appropriations.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 16, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur took to the House floor today to criticize the lack of leadership in the House of Representatives and the dysfunction surrounding the annual appropriations process. Kaptur, ranking member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee, said the House of Representatives is hurting job growth and the economic recovery with its indecisiveness. “Once again this house is scrambling to pass another continuing resolution,” Kaptur said. “This is a classic definition of dysfunction, kicking the can down the road, shirking our responsibility to address the priorities of our nation through clear 2015 departmental funding levels and decisiveness.” Instead, she said, “We get the reverse of that. (We get) uncertainty. It hurts job growth. It hurts economic recovery. We must reverse this regression and inertia. Congress must make the difficult choices that allow our republic to function with certainty and dispatch again.” Kaptur said the the Energy and Water subcommittee “took great strides” by passing a bill to create jobs, “support science activities necessary for American competitiveness and economic growth, (and) fund work on critical national defense priorities, nuclear non-proliferation and our cleanup efforts. Unfortunately, this continuing resolution stalls that work.” Kaptur said she holds out hope that the short-term continuing resolution “provides the necessary time to pass full-year measures so that Congress measures up to what the American people expect of us and that is to do our job.” She said funding levels for Fiscal Year 2015 “should match real reality, not political stunts six weeks before election.” # # #
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 17, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur today applauded the unanimous passage of a House resolution expressing support for the nation and people of Ukraine in their quest for independence. Kaptur, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, co-sponsored the bipartisan resolution that was offered by Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-Pennsylvania). Here is Congresswoman Kaptur’s statement on the House floor in support of the resolution: “As we continue to strongly support the right of the people of Ukraine to freely determine their own futures, their sovereignty, without outside interference and God forbid, further bloodshed or loss of life. The brave people of Ukraine continue to face incredible challenges, not only an assault on their borders by Russia, but reforming their own government and their judiciary to develop a rich civil society. The task that lies ahead for Ukraine is daunting, but beckons liberty forward. This is Ukraine’s moment in modern history. I expect her to become one of the greatest nations in Europe. While the situation remains unstable, there are clear signs of hope, the ultimate reflection of the intrepid souls of the Ukrainian people who have endured so very much. Just yesterday, Ukraine’s President, Petro Poroshenko, signed the landmark and long-awaited European Union association agreement, a brave step forward. We recall it was this desire for a closer association with Europe and the West on the part of the Ukrainian people that was ultimately responsible for the start of the crisis which persists today. As a great nation, the name ‘Ukraine’ means borderland. Ukraine should reach west and east and north and south. It is just that vast a land and its potential unlimited. But in trying to accomplish that effort with Europe, what began as a peaceful protest in Kyiv, the capital, ended in bloodshed, first at the hands of the former corrupt Yanukovich regime and now at the hands of Russian agitators under the directives and support of Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin. Still, we look forward to tomorrow’s historic joint meeting of our Congress, here in this House, in honor of President Petro Poroshenko’s first visit to the United States. We must heed President Poroshenko’s words and take into consideration any request he makes of us, a vital friend, an ally. We continue to stand in solidarity with Ukraine and her people and the passage of this bill, H.Res. 726, on the eve of President Poroshenko’s visit, aims to illustrate the special friendship and bond between our people… We share Ukraine’s struggle…”
09.10.2014	Senators Portman, Brown Offer Companion Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Working together with Ohio’s two senators, U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (Ohio-9) today introduced legislation directing the federal EPA to publish a health advisory on microcystin and to submit reports on what constitutes a safe level of the toxin in drinking water. Because there is no U.S. national drinking water safety standard for mycrosystis in drinking water, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defaulted to the World Health Organization standard of 1 part per billion in carrying out tests of Toledo's water quality during the emergency last month. The Kaptur bill would require the U.S. EPA administrator to issue within 90 days a health advisory on microcystins and the threat they pose to drinking water. “Our legislation would fill a gap in the EPA’s response to date on toxic algae,” Kaptur said. “The water emergency in Toledo highlighted the need for a more robust federal response, and our local communities still very much need recommendations on consumption, treatment and testing.” While Kaptur introduced the bill on the House side, Senators Rob Portman and Sherrod Brown introduced the bipartisan Safe and Secure Drinking Water Act in the upper chamber. “After the Toledo water crisis, it’s critical that all levels of government work together to determine if our drinking water is safe for human consumption,” Portman stated. “As we continue to work to ensure that Ohioans have access to safe and clean drinking water, this legislation is an important step toward knowing what is safe and what is not.” Microcystin is a byproduct of blooming algae. Despite requests that state and federal regulators set microcystins limits in drinking water, local water plant operators generally rely on the WHO guidance. The EPA has been working on developing a federal limit for years, but has yet to issue one. This legislation by Kaptur, Portman and Brown would direct the agency to publish, as an interim measure, an advisory that would help inform and educate local and state officials while EPA continues to work on a federal mandate. Congresswoman Kaptur said she hopes the bill will prod USEPA to issue long-awaited standards on drinking water for areas affected by toxic algae blooms. “I hope our bill expedites the work on drinking water standards,” she said. The bill requires the EPA Administrator to make a progress report to Congress within 120 days on consumption, treating and testing. # # #
09.03.2014	TOLEDO (September 3, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur this afternoon applauded the announcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) that it will commit almost $12 million to combat harmful algal blooms in the western basin of Lake Erie. USEPA Administrator Gina McCarthy made the announcement this afternoon at a Great Lakes conference in Washington, D.C. The $12 million will be used to expand monitoring and forecasting, increase incentives for farmers to reduce phosphorus runoff, and improve measurement of phosphorus in the tributaries of Lake Erie. “Every little bit helps,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “No question, we need a robust response from local, state and federal government to get a handle on this issue and I commend the USEPA for this commitment.” Administrator McCarthy said the funding package “will address the immediate need for state and federal agencies to protect public health and build upon ongoing efforts to reduce harmful algal blooms.” Funds will be made available to state agencies in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana as well as the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Funding will be provided under the rubric of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, a federal response to the environmental challenge facing the Great Lakes. # # #
09.03.2014	CLEVELAND (September 3, 2014) -- Appearing this morning on CNN, Congresswoman Kaptur urged the U.S. to provide military and intelligence assistance to Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. “This is one of those moments in history where that kind of decision has to be made,” said Congresswoman Kaptur on “New Day” with Kate Bolduan. Kaptur, a co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, has sponsored the Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014 (H.R. 5190). Economic sanctions, she said, are long-term measures. “We need short-term actions that help the Ukrainian people defend themselves…Europe left them defenseless. The NATO structure was not effective in terms of allowing nations like Ukraine to easily come into a security umbrella. I think we need that new security umbrella. I think it will involve nations like Estonia, obviously nations like Poland, and hopefully Ukraine. "There’s always been a division in Ukraine as to whether or not the political parties there wanted to support accession to NATO. There was also a reluctance on Europe’s part to take on some of the economic and military and social challenges of Ukraine. "But this is one of those moments in history where that kind of decision has to be made.” Kaptur expressed skepticism about reports of a ceasefire agreement. “I don’t think there’s any evidence on the ground that anything’s changed,” since Russian invaded Ukraine from the east. # # #
08.15.2014	TOLEDO - (August 15, 2014) - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today announced a Federal Aviation Administration award of $548,734 to the Put-in-Bay Port Authority for taxiway work at the airport. The project will fund construction of 1,670 feet of partial parallel taxiway to provide access to the hangars and reconstruction of 2,550 feet of pavement on Taxiway A that has reached the end of its useful life. “Transportation is crucial to the economy of the islands,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Certainly the airport is vital during the winter months but also opens the door for tourists to a wonderful experience.” ###
08.08.2014	WASHINGTON - (August 8, 2014) - Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) on Friday said that the United States cannot allow Russia to continue its military buildup along the Ukrainian border. Gerlach, who for months has been advocating for a firm response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea and Putin’s support of pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine that resulted in a Malaysian passenger jet being shot down, once again called on President Obama to authorize an immediate infusion of American military and security assistance to help Ukraine maintain its sovereignty as well as protect its military and its citizens. NATO officials and media reports indicate that Russian President Vladimir Putin has amassed 20,000 troops, more than 1,000 missiles and other military equipment along the eastern border of Ukraine. The buildup has prompted Ukrainian officials to brace for a major assault on the city of Donetsk, according to media reports. "Vladimir Putin didn’t send 20,000 Russian troops to Ukraine’s doorstep to practice their marching," Gerlach said. "By annexing Crimea this spring and continuing to foment violence in eastern Ukraine, Putin has wedged his foot in Ukraine’s front door. It is time to help Ukraine slam that door shut. That’s why I am imploring President Obama to recognize the growing threat the escalating Russian aggression poses to the security and stability of Ukraine and the entire region. It’s time for the U.S. to provide Ukraine with the defensive muscle crucial to protecting its borders, its military and its citizens." Rep. Kaptur added: “The world has witnessed the destabilization of Ukraine for months and this most recent military buildup along the Ukraine border further illustrates Mr. Putin’s true intentions. The United States has the capacity to provide excess defense supplies to non NATO nations like Ukraine that face overwhelming threats to their sovereignty. Russia is not an inert threat to the European continent and the world. She is a nuclear nation with vast capacity to destroy human life. Ukrainian forces are outnumbered and out supplied on every front. The Russian threat is serious and dangerous. One misstep could trigger a broader war whose edges no one can anticipate. Ukraine and her people have every right to sovereignty, territorial integrity, and self-determination as they strive for greater liberty and a more democratic future.” Gen. Wesley Clark, former NATO Supreme Allied Commander and a candidate who sought the Democratic nomination for President in 2008, said during an interview on "The O'Reilly Factor" Thursday night that NATO should be unified in its response to the Russian threat. Clark also backed sending material and support to the Ukraine military needs to match Russia's military might. "They need night-vision goggles; they need intelligence (capabilities); they need flak jackets," Clark said. "It's time to get that stuff to them.” Gerlach and his colleagues in the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus unveiled bipartisan legislation last month to provide a clear and specific process for sending direct, defensive military and security assistance to the Government of Ukraine as it seeks to strengthen its democracy and prevent separatist violence and aggression within its borders. H.R. 5190, the proposed Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014, would reinforce the strong relationship between the U.S. and Ukraine and take an important step toward helping Ukraine neutralize the military-support advantage that separatist rebels are using to target civilian and military aircraft in eastern Ukraine and foster violence and instability across that country. This legislation would authorize the President to work with the Government of Ukraine to assess that country’s military, intelligence, and security needs and provide adequate and necessary defensive assistance to protect Ukrainian democracy and sovereignty. ### CONTACTS: Kori Walter, District Director/Press Secretary (Gerlach) 610.376.7630 or 610.223.1767 (cell) Steve Fought, Communications Director (Kaptur) (703) 587-8165
08.03.2014	TOLEDO - (August 3, 2014) - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) this evening called upon the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) to release immediately all water sample findings pertinent to the Toledo emergency. Following a 30-minute conference call that her office arranged with Region 5 Administrator Susan Hedman earlier this evening, Congresswoman Kaptur urged the agency to increase general public understanding about the Toledo crisis by making the results available to the public. “The public has a right to know,” she said to Administrator Hedman. USEPA stated that although it is performing the tests on samples from the Toledo plant and distribution facilities, the Ohio EPA in fact has “the lead” in the investigation. Administrator Hedman said the agency would make an effort to get clearance from the state EPA. "Whether it's the state EPA or the federal EPA makes no difference. The public deserves transparency," Kaptur said. Other state, local and federal officials were on the conference call, though notably not the Ohio EPA. Congresswoman Kaptur also noted that although the USEPA has the most sophisticated analytical capability and ability to interpret information, the agency has not been present at any meeting or any media opportunity during the entire crisis. # # #
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (July 31, 2014) - U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), a 16-term member, today expressed her dismay at the collapse of leadership in the House of Representatives and urged Speaker John Boehner to restore regular order and decorum as soon as possible. Kaptur, the longest-serving member of the House, said, “I cannot recall in my career such chaos.” She said that apparently Republican leadership was “doublecrossed” by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), who conspired with Tea Party members last night and urged them to oppose compromise legislation to address the situation on America’s southern border. “As a result, the House schedule was thrown to the winds, and Members were told to wait for further instructions,” Kaptur said. “At this moment, we have no idea whether or not the leadership will manage to schedule a vote on this important legislation. The House was gaveled to recess with no indication of when, or even if, it might be reconvened. “How discourteous this is to our constituents, our staffs and their families, and frankly to the Members themselves. We plan our complex schedules around clear direction from leadership, who totally control the floor business. Some Members apparently already had left. Everything is in disarray. There is no certainty and no predictability in this chamber. Most important, there is no leadership on pressing issues such as jobs and immigration. “What a sad day for our beloved House.” # # #
07.30.2014	CLEVELAND (July 30, 2014) - Congratulations to Director Jim Free and the entire workforce at NASA Glenn on this historic occasion of the unveiling of the new Mission Integration Center, which is the first new office building at NASA Glenn in fifty years. The Center will further cement NASA Glenn’s important role in our country’s space program. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 24, 2014) - I am proud to stand united with my caucus co-chairs Reps. Jim Gerlach and Sander Levin today as we introduce the “Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014”. While the tragic crashing of MH17 certainly has brought the necessary condemnation of the world community, Ukraine and her people have been suffering for months at the hands of Russian-backed separatists and Russian aggressors. It is time for the United States to provide reasonable security assistance to Ukraine. The bill we introduce here today reaffirms the United States’ commitment to Ukraine and her people. Our bill reiterates the President’s authority to provide such assistance and advocates for the delivery of security and intelligence assistance to Ukraine. Our bill calls to designate Ukraine as a Major Non-Nato Ally, in order to temporarily provide vital resources and the security NATO offers to member states. Additionally, this bill expands military-to-military training and cooperation, specifically increasing the current tempo of military exercises and training efforts. The world has witnessed the destabilization of Ukraine for months and this most recent atrocity further illustrates Mr. Putin’s blatant refusal to use his influence to quell the instability and violence. The United States continues to stand with Ukraine and her people, who have every right to sovereignty, territorial integrity, and self-determination as they strive for greater liberty and a more democratic future.
07.18.2014	TOLEDO - (July 18, 2014) - My thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the families of those lost aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, and with the people of the Netherlands, Malaysia, and Ukraine as they confront this tragedy. Further, I join calls for an immediate ceasefire in Eastern Ukraine. As details continue to emerge in the days and weeks ahead, the United States and the world community must demand full cooperation from all parties—Ukrainian authorities, Russian-backed separatists, and Russia’s government—for a speedy, thorough, and transparent investigation into this crash. As President Obama stated this morning, FBI and National Transportation Safety Board personnel stand ready to assist in this investigation to ensure the truth comes to light. If U.S. intelligence proves true and MH17 was shot down by a surface-to-air missile launched from territory controlled by Russian-backed forces, it is difficult to see how Russia and President Putin are not culpable and responsible for these tragic deaths. The violence and instability we have seen throughout Eastern Ukraine, which continues to escalate, would not exist without the direct encouragement and financial support of President Putin and Russian agitators in sovereign Ukraine. The United States continues to stand with Ukraine and her people, who have every right to sovereignty, territorial integrity, and self-determination as they strive for greater liberty and a more democratic future. ###
07.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 17, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur announced the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has awarded the Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments (TMACOG) a $60,000 award to develop a green infrastructure plan to improve water quality and alleviate flooding pressure in Toledo’s Junction Avenue neighborhood. “I am pleased to announce this important federal award to help the neighborhood manage stormwater runoff, reduce flooding and create greenspace,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves as ranking member of the House Appropriations energy and water subcommittee. Funding was obtained through the Urban Waters Small Grants program, which helps communities conduct research, investigations, experiments, training, surveys, studies, and demonstrations that will advance the restoration of urban waters by improving water quality through activities that also support community revitalization and other local priorities. The funding is part of EPA’s Urban Waters program, which supports communities in their efforts to access, improve, and benefit from their urban waters and the surrounding land. # # #
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kaptur (Ohio-9) joined U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown and House colleagues Marcia Fudge (Ohio-11) and Tim Ryan (Ohio-13) in urging the Department of Labor to expedite a ruling on pensions for salaried retirees from Delphi. In a letter to Labor Secretary Thomas Perez, the Ohio legislators urged him to intervene and support a final determination by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PGBC) as soon as possible. They were joined on the letter by Senators Bob Casey (Pennsylvania), Chuck Schumer (New York), Debbie Stabenow (Michigan) and Joe Donnelly (Indiana). Noting that approximately 20,000 salaried retirees from Delphi have waited almost five years for a final benefit determination, the legislators called the delay “unsatisfactory and deeply troubling.” They noted that the case of the Delphi salaried retirees is unique because their pensions were termination during the rescue of the automobile industry. “Now, five years later, these workers are forced to live in limbo, denied any certainty or due process in confirmed or challenging the cuts to their earned benefits.”
07.11.2014	TOLEDO -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (Ohio-9) this afternoon welcomed a final determination by the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose duties against South Korea along with eight other countries for unfair steel imports. “This is a big win for American-made steel and for American jobs here in the heartland,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “We know that American companies and American workers can compete in the global market—but the playing field must be level. End of story.” She noted that the next step in the process is a hearing before the International Trade Commission to show material injury from the unfair trade practices. That hearing is set for next week in Washington. “We will continue to fight for American jobs so that our communities can benefit fully from increased activity in the drilling sector,” she said, noting that the case involved oil-country tubular goods (OCTG), mainly steel pipe. American steelmakers and steelworkers had argued that other nations were engaging in unfair trade by dumping of product on the market at prices below their cost of production. The Commerce decision received favorable response from both all sectors of the steel community, including companies and labor. U.S. Steel Corp. president and CEO Mario Longhi, whose Pittsburgh-based company is the largest integrated producer of tubular products that is headquartered in the United States, communicated to Congresswoman Kaptur his pleasure with the Commerce Department determination. “Our only recourse against such actions was with the (department) and their ability to support the rule of law and create a level playing field for American manufacturing.” United Steelworkers International President Leo W. Gerard said, “With this decision, the U.S. Commerce Department listened to thousands of hard-working Americans and took a stand for fairness on behalf of those workers and their employers. In the past few months, Steelworkers across the country rallied for a level playing field. Today their voices were heard.” # # #
07.07.2014	PORT CLINTON (July 7, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur participated today in the historic "First Shot" ceremony to open the National Matches The First Shot Ceremony is the official “opening ceremony” of the 2014 National Matches at Camp Perry. Gary Anderson, director of Civilian Marksmanship Emeritus, fired the ceremonial first shot of the National Matches, an honor that accrues to the guest speaker each year. Mr. Anderson addressed assembled competitors, match officials and volunteers as well as numerous state and local governmental and military leaders.
07.07.2014	CLEVELAND (July 7, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur joined Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald and other local leaders in dedicating Scranton Flats project on the Towpath Trail. “This project is all about connectivity,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We are witnessing the reconnection of our community with its natural setting—and the result is an enhanced quality of life. “We live in the most sustainable place on the planet,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Nowhere does this much arable land adjoin this much fresh water.” Congresswoman Kaptur addressed a large crowd on hand to help dedicate the $9 million project that will offer an enhanced natural experience to millions of Northeastern Ohio residents and visitors. She and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown noted that the project received the largest combined funding for a single project in from the federal Great Lakes Restoration Initiative ($3 million) as well as the largest Clean Ohio conservation grant ($3.2 million) in state history. She praised former Congressman Ralph Regula for his legacy of creating trails throughout Northeast Ohio, including his home county, Stark. “He always believed in bipartisanship and helping the people of his district,” she said as she joined him on the stage. Scranton Flats, the first publicly-funded section of the popular Ohio & Erie Canal Towpath Trail in Cleveland proper, will include a pier over the Cuyahoga River and viewing spots for birders and ship fans alike. It will also restore 3,000 feet of natural shoreline and create more habitat for fish in a river that was once the emblem of ecological disaster. Scranton Flats, which opened to the public today, will increase access to the Cuyahoga and build a critical section of the Towpath Trail connecting the Tremont neighborhood of Cleveland with the doorstep of downtown. "The collaboration at the heart of this project is a true testament to the working spirit of our region,” said FitzGerald. “Every level of government prioritized the revitalization of the Cuyahoga River, one our greatest assets, and today we celebrate that shared vision. Cleveland, particularly downtown, is beginning to truly regain its confidence thanks to these transformative projects."
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC (June 18, 2014) - The Honorable Marcy Kaptur, Ranking Member, Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, House Committee on Appropriations Fiscal Year 2015, Full Committee Markup Mr. Chairman, I want to congratulate you on the bipartisan and transparent manner in which you crafted the Fiscal Year 2015 Energy and Water bill. I also want to express my gratitude to Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other members of the Subcommittee for their efforts. Finally, I would like to thank the majority Subcommittee staff and your personal staff for their great work, as well as Taunja Berquam, on our side, for her exceptional diligence and expertise and Ryan Steyer. Before I get to my remarks on the bill itself, I first want to mention that our thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Nunnelee as he recuperates, we hope to see him join us again soon. To Mr. Pastor, this will be your last Energy and Water meeting. You have been a leader on our Subcommittee for many years and we will miss you, your vision and sense of humor. I wish you all the best as you embark on this new phase in your life. As we evaluate the bill before us – one of the most important bills we could possibly debate – I would like to briefly provide some context. When I deliver graduation addresses, I generally tell my audience I am in the “LIBERTY BUSINESS.” Our Energy and Water bill today is about liberty’s business. It is about national security. It is about energy security. It is about jobs and economic growth here at home. Our accounts spur energy innovation; they feed construction of an America on the grow and the jobs that attend that; and they assure the nuclear security that can defend our nation. All these accounts are tightly bound in our subcommittee bill. From Michael Klare’s remarkable book “Blood and Oil,” we learn about what some might call the most significant test to liberty in own era: He says: “Every economic recession since World War II has come on the heels of a global petroleum shortage.” To name a few, look back to the Arab oil embargo and OPEC price increases of 1973-74, the 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, to the costly wars we have been enduring in Iraq and Afghanistan.” The current crisis in Iraq, as well as the predicament Ukraine and greater Europe face as winter approaches, all point fiercely in the direction of energy. As gasoline prices here at home now bob and rise toward $4/gallon, we recall that $4 price level is the tripwire for our economy slipping into recession again. If we look back at history, since creation of the Centcom in 1983, almost all the American soldiers who have died in combat were serving under its authority, including the victims of terrorist attacks at the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia in 1996 and aboard the USS Cole in 2000. The link between blood, the politics of energy, and terrorism plagues our political reality. Ultimately on 9-11 as Yemen terrorists slammed into our shores, the Statue of Liberty witnessed the dawn of the 21st century. The U.S. military itself is largely dependent on petroleum. As Robert E. Ebel of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said in 2002: “Oil fuels military power, national treasuries, and international politics.” And, petroleum products account for over 90% of all fuel used by America’s mammoth fleets of cars, trucks, buses, planes, trains, and ships.” In the last century, American reliance on foreign oil grew. Our share of imports in the nation’s total annual energy supply rose from 42% in 1990 to 49% in 1997. In April 1998, it crossed the 50% mark. The U.S. entered the 21st century with a net reliance on foreign oil.” Based on charts you have in hand, you can observe where the imports are coming from and where reserves remain. In addition, one can gain a sense, despite U.S. natural gas discoveries, how reliant the U.S. remains on imported product. In my sincere judgment, this posture of energy dependence, and our overreliance on one input, is simply too great a risk to liberty for our nation. We must propel a course adjustment and this bill does its part toward that task. Just since 2003, the U.S. has spent $2.3 trillion importing foreign petroleum. This is a vast shift of wealth, and thousands upon tens of thousands of jobs, from the U.S. elsewhere. Assuming a $30/barrel price, the total bill for imported oil over the next 25 years should reach over $3.5 trillion, or more depending on the barrel price – at $100 per barrel it would be a shift of wealth over $10 trillion. It is useful to peruse the charts we have provided to reflect on the predicament America faces. How serious are we in restoring liberty to future generations? Each of us must ask ourselves this question. Just this week, the fear of an oil price shock related to Iraq unrest has put Wall Street on an oil price watch. America’s markets report West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark U.S. index, bears watching. Last week, when fighting intensified and fears of a civil war in Iraq became all too real, a barrel of WTI crude spiked 4.1% to $106.91 on a closing basis, but climbed as high as $107.68 in intraday trading Friday. On Monday, prices stabilized, with a barrel of oil falling 20 cents in price to $106.57. Theoretically, this per barrel price – if it were to remain over the next 25 years – would suck over $10 trillion dollars more of wealth out of the U.S. economy. The job loss associated with trillions of dollars of abdicated energy wealth is staggering. It is a major contributing factor to the shrinkage of our middle class because it is a continuing hemorrhage of wealth, jobs, and economic power. The bill before us today attempts to take a modest step forward in diversifying America’s energy sources. Frankly, based on the challenge that has faced us for almost a third of a century, I would like to triple the size of this budget to get to a solution for liberty and security faster. Congress must restore greater energy security for our nation through innovation. That firm commitment will leave the next generation in greater control of this country. Recent natural gas discoveries, and added domestic oil drilling, provide our nation with some breathing room. But only for awhile. An energy hungry world will continue to push up global prices and availability. The world is changing and so America must adapt, and adapt sooner rather than later. President Jimmy Carter was not wrong when he equated the struggle for energy independence as the moral equivalent of war. We have been engaged in plenty of fighting abroad. We must refocus and draw forth the powers of our own land performing something worthy to be remembered. The $34 billion in this bill cannot correct the ship of state’s direction overnight. But surely, as we change course and invest more robustly in our own nation’s energy future again, across all energy sectors. Thus, we can begin to restore some of the economic luster we know has been lost and is but waiting for us to reignite its potential. By 2035, some projections show that we will be able to meet 97 percent of our energy needs through domestic production. Efficiency upgrades to our vehicles, buildings, and industrial processes have slowed the growth of consumption. This must continue. On the supply side, increases in domestic production are largely driven by natural gas discoveries, using drilling technology that was advanced due to this committee’s investment in research and development at the Department of Energy. Continued funding to accelerate renewable energy development can help achieve a net positive balance of trade in our energy sector. Alternatively, if we under-invest in the critical technologies of the future, we risk wasting our moment in history and ceding our energy future to our global competitors, such as China and Russia. With this in mind, let us examine the bill before us. As the Chairman has already pointed out, the allocation for Energy and Water is essentially flat when compared to 2014. I know, Mr. Chairman, you were faced with very difficult decisions, in particular, with the Defense allocation. Despite these challenges, the product before us is a good bill, and one which I support. There are, of course, a few provisions which I object to that I hope we can rectify as we move forward. I am convinced that if we do not make strategic investments in our physical and research infrastructure we are risking the economic competiveness of our nation. I believe the bill before us grapples with these important national decisions that will shape this century’s America. The bill adds nearly a billion to the Corps of Engineers, funding which is necessary to complete work already underway - - but there are no new starts, and the Army Corps of Engineers has a $60 billion backlog. What a job creator that would be if we could fund it! If we are to maintain our ports and waterways and provide flood and storm damage reduction projects where they make sense, we must modernize our critical infrastructure. In almost every circumstance, it makes more fiscal sense to prevent a disaster than to respond to one, so this bill allows the Corps to address national needs not supported by the Administration’s request. These investments will give businesses and individual’s confidence in their community’s infrastructure, thereby driving further investment. The Science and ARPA-E accounts, critical for U.S. competitiveness and scientific innovation, are equal to 2014 funding. I do have concerns with amounts provided to certain accounts within the bill. In particular the level of funding for the nonproliferation activities of the NNSA and the Defense Environmental Cleanup account where, despite the Chairman’s best efforts on these fronts, the Subcommittee’s allocation was simply insufficient to address the many competing needs. While the funding levels of the bill are fair, the inclusion of controversial riders is an unnecessary diversion from our primary responsibility – ensuring that taxpayer funds are invested wisely in Federal programs which will contribute to the economic vitality of our Nation. Most concerning is the inclusion of 2 water riders which, taken together, risk environmental gains and protection of the world’s most precious resource: water. The first Clean Water Act prohibition prevents the Corps of Engineers from taking steps to clarify which waters are protected by the Clean Water Act, and lock in place a widely-acknowledged state of confusion about the scope of the law’s pollution control programs. The second, prevents the Corps of Engineers from using funds to “develop, adopt, implement, administer, or enforce any change” to regulations pertaining to the definitions of the terms “fill material” or “discharge of fill material” under the Clean Water Act. This rider would lock in industry loopholes, leaving many of our nation’s waterways vulnerable to harmful pollution. The provision relating to California water which diverts some $70 million from environmental protection activities to actions to increase water supply seems, at a minimum, to be a matter of Federal overreach. The provision would divert funds from a settlement agreement which ended 18 year of litigation, a settlement agreement which was supported by all involved parties. Further a recent poll done by bipartisan polling firms found that the majority of Californians do not support suspending environmental protections in response to water shortages. The water shortages in California are real and potentially crippling to many in the state. While I support actions to address water supply shortages, I cannot support them at the expense of the environment. Drought is the cause of low water allocations, not environmental protections. In spite of these concerns, Mr. Chairman, I would like to reiterate my appreciation for your work with us on many issues, you have ensured the Energy and Water Development Subcommittee continues its tradition of bipartisanship—the Subcommittee has operated collaboratively and effectively for many years and, within the constraints you were faced with, you largely addressed the interests we have expressed. I look forward to working with you and the members of the Committee to advance the process and complete the task before us to strengthen liberty as she encounters the challenge of a new era. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman for the time. ###
06.13.2014	TOLEDO (June 13, 2014) – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (Ohio-9) today joined Mayor D. Michael Collins and officials of the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority to break ground at the site of a “spec” building on the former Jeep factory site just off Central Avenue. “As the realtors say, ‘Location, location, location,’ ” Congresswoman Kaptur said in her remarks. “This is one of the prime locations in the entire region.” Construction will begin in a matter of weeks on a 100,000-square-foot building for use as a warehouse or distribution center or possibly for light manufacturing. Congresswoman Kaptur said the project will leverage Toledo’s important asset as a hub for multi-modal transportation. As she spoke, a northbound freight train rumbled by just to the east and heavy traffic traversed Interstate 75 in both directions just to the west. She also noted the site’s historical significance in American history. “What took place at this site for so many years is something we should always remember,” she said. “When people drive by, they know it’s important, but it lacks meaning to them. With this undertaking, we can help remake our image.” Port Authority President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Toth said the project never would have happened without Congresswoman Kaptur’s assistance in securing the initial federal funding. “We’re hopeful that we will have a new tenant at Overland upon completion of this project. The port authority is dedicated to bringing new life to this historic and important piece of land,” Toth said. Mayor Collins said the Jeeps that were built at the former site propelled the Allies to victory in the European theater in World War II. The new development, he said, will show that Toledo is a city “on the incline, not the decline.” # # # For more information: Steve Fought (703) 587-8165
06.13.2014	TOLEDO (June 13, 2014) – Joined by Toledo Mayor D. Michael Collins, Lucas County Commission President Carol Contrada and Ann Arbor VA Director Robert McDivitt, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (Ohio-9) helped break ground today on a 75-unit permanent supportive housing community for veterans in south Toledo. “This project is the culmination of a three-decade-long journey to make sure that veterans get shelter—and shelter with care,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who led efforts to form a partnership among the city of Toledo, Lucas County, the Area Office on Aging, and the federal government to undertake the project. Known as the Commons at Garden Lake, the $12.5 million facility is scheduled for completion next summer. According to Columbus-based National Church Residences, the project will construct apartments with health and social services on site. National Church Residences will partner with the Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs (VA) hospital to provide the services. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has approved 35 rental subsidy vouchers for residents at the Commons at Garden Lake. These vouchers, the first of their kind to be issued in Ohio, will be administered by Lucas County Metropolitan Housing Authority and Ann Arbor VA. The Lucas County Veterans Service Commission will cover the cost of furniture for the units, and Veterans Matter will provide security deposits. The Commons at Garden Lake is the second of National Church Residences’ permanent supportive housing communities specifically for veterans. The first was the Commons at Livingston in Columbus. Phase 1 of that community opened in 2012, and Phase 2 opened in 2014. A third such community is being planned for Atlanta. Also speaking at the event were representatives of the Toledo-Lucas County Veterans Homelessness Board, Veterans Matter, and The Home Depot Foundation. # # # For more information: Steve Fought (703) 587-8165
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 11, 2014) -- The Rocky River Fire Department has received a federal award for $28,800 from the Department of Homeland Security, Congresswoman Kaptur announced this afternoon. “This important award will help the Rocky River Fire Department protect our citizens and even save lives,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. She said the fire department hopes to purchase chest compression devices that will help first responders administer emergency care to victims undergoing heart attacks. The funds were made available as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 10, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur formally congratulated members of the Puerto Rico’s 65th Infantry Regiment—known as the “Borinqueneers”—after President Obama signed legislation to award them the Congressional Gold Medal. “The Fighting Borinqueneers persevered, despite discrimination and hardship, to defend America throughout the entire Twentieth Century,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, whose district is home to one of the largest Puerto Rican communities outside New York. “All told, more than 100,000 served and their courage was boundless,” she said. “They even led the last regimental bayonet charge in U.S. military history—a truly heroic act during the Korean War that saved the lives of many. “The Congressional Gold Medal is a symbol of a grateful nation’s appreciation of the Fighting Borinqueneers, whose motto was ‘Honor et Fidelitas,’ or ‘Honor and Fidelity.’ ” Formed in 1898, shortly after Puerto Rico became a part of the United States, the Borinqueneeres served in both World War I and World War II as well as Korea. Segregation “set them apart from their fellow soldiers, but their courage made them legendary,” President Obama said during a signing ceremony at the White House. “We thank all the Borinqueneers for their extraordinary service. You’ve earned a hallowed place in our history.” The Fighting Borinqueneers achieved glory in February 1951 when they charged Chinese positions with bayonets fixed, opening an escape route for Marines who had been trapped near the Chosin Reservoir. Congresswoman Kaptur supported the bipartisan legislation, authored by Rep. Bill Posey (R-Florida), to award the Congressional Gold Medal to these valiant fighters, of whom fewer than 1,000 survive.
06.06.2014	TOLEDO – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (Ohio-9) was named today by President Obama to a presidential delegation to represent the United States this weekend in Kiev at the inauguration of Ukrainian President-elect Petro O. Poroshenko. Vice President Joe Biden will head the eight-member presidential delegation. Congresswoman Kaptur will travel to Ukraine with the vice president aboard Air Force Two. They will be joined in Kiev by three U.S. Senators--John McCain (R-Arizona), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin)—and three diplomats: Geoffrey R. Pyatt, U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine; Victoria Nuland, Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs; and, Daniel B. Baer, U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. “I am honored to be able to help represent our country at this historic event,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “With thousands of Ukrainian-Americans in northern Ohio, our region has always had great affection for the long-suffering people of Ukraine. It is particularly poignant for me to be a member of the delegation.” President-elect Poroshenko will take the oath of office at the Ukrainian Parliament (Rada) on Saturday. ###
06.04.2014	TOLEDO (June 5, 2014) -- Honey bees are in trouble in Ohio, and Congresswoman Kaptur wants to help. Congresswoman Kaptur today announced a new federal initiative to encourage farmers to make suitable habitat available for bees and other pollinators by planting floral forage while reducing the use of pesticides. Kaptur said the initiative will be undertaken by the federal Natural Resources Conversation Service (NRCS), an arm of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Farmers in 24 Ohio counties will be eligible for assistance in promoting pollinator habitat. "Honeybees and other pollinators face a triple threat: insecticides, mites and disease," Kaptur said. "The decrease in wildflower habitat simply makes it harder for honey bees to do their job of collecting pollen and growing their colonies.” Kaptur said pollinators help produce for one out of every three bites of food we eat. Ohio farmers, she said, rely on bees to pollinate more than 70 crops, but the state's 4,390 registered beekeepers lost 50-80 percent of the bees from their 37,000 honeybee colonies last winter, an increase from the 30 to 60 percent loss the prior year. In addition, commercial honey bee hives bring a large percentage of their hives to Ohio and other Midwest states for the bees to rest and feed upon quality forage in preparation for overwintering. Agricultural producers with cropland, pastureland, forestland and farmsteads in the following counties might be eligible for the program: Allen, Ashtabula, Auglaize, Cuyahoga, Defiance, Erie, Fulton, Hancock, Hardin, Henry, Lake, Lucas, Lorain, Mercer, Ottawa, Paulding, Sandusky, Seneca, Shelby, Van Wert, Williams, Wood, and Wyandot. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 29, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur held a briefing on mental illness and the criminal justice system this week in Washington, D.C. The briefing, titled “Mental Illness in America’s Prisons and Jails,” was co-hosted by Congressman Bobby Scott and Congressman Cedric Richmond. Panelists included Amy Fettig of the American Civil Liberties Union, Ron Honberg of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, Laura Markle Downton of the National Religious Campaign Against Torture, and Jennifer Mathis of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law. “Our hope is to provide better care for ill inmates, reduce the costs of incarceration, and less the risk of recidivism for those prisons ultimatelyi released from confinement,” said Congressman Kaptur. Kaptur noted that as many as 400,000 inmates in America’s prisons and jails suffer from mental illness. As many as 40 percent of all Americans with mental illness will pass through the criminal justice system at some point. Moreover, she highlighted that mentally-ill state prison inmates receive sentences that on average extend more than 12 months longer than other offenders. “Treatment can benefit both the public and people with mental illness,” she said. “Most jail inmates with mental illness are charged with non-violent offenses and treatment is the best way to prevent recidivism.” At the same time, inmates with mental illness cost more to incarcerate than other inmates and effective treatment can actually save tax dollars. Current costs of incarcerating mentally-ill prisoners exceed $9 billion a year. ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 28, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced a $127,825 federal award to the city of Toledo for brownfield redevelopment at the former Chevrolet transmission plant on West Central Avenue. The grant was made by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). Kaptur, a senior member of the Energy and Water subcommittee, said the award will make it possible for the city to make use of the site for economic development. “This award will help continue reclaiming our industrial legacy,” said Kaptur. “Toledo was one of only 12 communities in Ohio to receive an award.” She said USEPA announced 264 awards nationally to 171 communities, totaling $67 million for cleaning up and redeveloping contaminated properties. The Brownfields Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund and Cleanup Grants will give million in brownfields funding to clean and redevelop contaminated properties, boost local economies and leverage jobs while protecting public health and the environment. The FY14 Brownfields Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund, and Cleanup (ARC) grants will give communities and businesses a chance to return economic stability to under-served and economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. “Not only are these funds protecting the environment and public health by helping communities clean up blighted toxic waste sites, there are new job growth opportunities for local economies to leverage through these investments," said Gina McCarthy, EPA Administrator. “With cities looking at how to combat the impacts of climate change, it's more important than ever for communities to innovate new ways to retrofit formerly polluted sites into assets for the community." Since the inception of the EPA’s Brownfields program in 1995, cumulative brownfield program investments have leveraged more than $21 billion from a variety of public and private sources for cleanup and redevelopment activities. This equates to an average of $17.79 leveraged per EPA brownfield dollar expended. These investments have resulted in approximately 93,000 jobs nationwide. More information on brownfields grants by state: Grant Fact Sheet Search | Brownfields | US EPA # # #
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 28, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced a $600,000 federal award to Lorain County for brownfield redevelopment. The grant was made by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). Kaptur, a senior member of the Energy and Water subcommittee, said the award will make it possible for Lorain County to survey and clean up brownfield sites for use in economic development and job creation. “This award is part of reclaiming our legacy and strengthen the local economy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Lorain County is one of only 12 communities in Ohio to receive an award.” She said USEPA announced 264 awards nationally to 171 communities, totaling $67 million for cleaning up and redeveloping contaminated properties. The Brownfields Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund and Cleanup Grants will give assist communities in cleaning up and redeveloping contaminated properties, boost local economies and leverage jobs, and protect public health and the environment, particularly in under-served and economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. “Not only are these funds protecting the environment and public health by helping communities clean up blighted toxic waste sites, there are new job growth opportunities for local economies to leverage through these investments," said Gina McCarthy, EPA Administrator. “With cities looking at how to combat the impacts of climate change, it's more important than ever for communities to innovate new ways to retrofit formerly polluted sites into assets for the community." # # #
05.22.2014	CLEVELAND (May 22, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) issued the following statement today after the announcement that Cleveland—along with Dallas, Denver, and Kansas City—will receive an official site visit from the Republican National Committee site selection team for the 2016 convention: “I am so pleased that Cleveland has made the Final Four. “Mayor Jackson and others have pursued this opportunity in earnest and we are so proud of the work they’ve done to showcase a great American city. “The entire community is firmly behind the effort to host a successful political convention in two years and will certainly roll out the red carpet for the selection team.” ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC (May 22, 2014) -- A ceremony in our nation’s capital this weekend will mark the 10th anniversary of the dedication of the World War II Memorial. The memorial, of course, is a testament to the vision and determination of a humble man from Berkey. Roger Durbin was an Army veteran who had fought in the Battle of the Bulge, played his role in the victory effort, and then returned home to his family and his community with no fanfare. A seemingly ordinary man, a rural mail carrier—but a man with a big dream. His post-war mission was to correct an oversight—the lack of a memorial to the victory over tyranny. Although Roger Durbin never saw the World War II Memorial—he died in 2000—his family did. And his grand-daughter, Melissa Durbin, will participate in the celebration this weekend. It seems hard to believe a decade has passed since President George W. Bush formally dedicated the memorial to everyone who participated, both overseas and stateside, in the war effort. But since that sunny day in May 2004, the World War II Memorial has become one of the most popular tourist attractions among the many sites in our nation’s capital. It has been the destination for dozens of Honor Flights from around the country to see the memorial to their accomplishments and for millions of individual tourists on the National Mall who come to pay homage. Something remarkable happens every single day at the memorial: the beneficiaries of that great victory get the chance to meet these aging warriors from the Greatest Generation. Every day, without fail, people come up to visiting veterans , now in their nineties and many now in wheelchairs, simply to say “thank you.” It is touching in its own right to see people whose main experience of World War II has been to study about it school or see it portrayed on television get the opportunity not only to see the memorial, but also to meet real, live heroes. But that will not always hold true. When we dedicated the memorial in 2004, more than four million of the 16 million American veterans of World War II were still alive. Today, fewer than a million remain. We lose more than 500 of them every day. And ten years from now, at the 20th anniversary ceremony, only 80,000, roughly, will survive. At the memorial, what Abraham Lincoln called “the mystic chords of memory” are played with grandeur and grace. And that is what the memorial is all about. It was built to preserve a memory— • the memory of gallantry and devotion, of honor and sacrifice, of dedication to a cause bigger than oneself. • the memory of a generation of ordinary Americans who did something extraordinary—answering duty’s call, saving democracy, and then modestly returning to their communities and their families, to work in the factory, to work on the farm … or simply to carry the mail. The World War II Memorial will be there long after the World War II veterans are gone. While they are still with us, take the opportunity to let them know that a grateful nation will always pay tribute to their courageous service and they will always be remembered as heroes. ###
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.(May 20, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) voted today for passage of the federal water infrastructure bill, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act. Congresswoman Kaptur said strong bipartisan support for the Kaptur bill reflected recognition of “the importance of the changing infrastructure needs of our nation,” specifically the “Great Lakes ports as an interdependent Navigation System and provides them priority funding to end the dredging crisis.” The measure provides the Army Corps of Engineers with authority to begin work on emergency prevention measures to stop the spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. “Despite negligence on the part of the Corps of Engineers date, we are clearing the way for action to protect our lakes,” Kaptur said of the provision. The legislation addresses other national priorities, including the full expenditure of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, a streamlined approval process for future water and environmental restoration projects, and improvements to the inland waterway system. ###
05.08.2014	LORAIN (May 5, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-09) told a rally that she supports aggressive enforcement of trade laws to protect American jobs in the steel industry. “Our steel companies and steelworkers deserve a fair chance to compete, but the playing field is certainly not level when competitors are allowed to dump their product on the market at less than cost,” she said. American producers are increasingly losing sales to foreign competitors due to dumping. Kaptur said full enforcement of trade laws that are already on the books is critical to the domestic industry’s future. She urged the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties on Korean steel that are similar to those imposed on imports from China. The department previously imposed duties on eight other countries that were the source of dumped steel, but excluded Korea, which has increased exports to the U.S. by fivefold in just the past six years. A final decision on the Korea case is expected sometime this summer. ###
04.30.2014	TOLEDO (April 30, 2014) -- U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) this afternoon announced a $162,000 federal award for the city of Toledo Fire Department for operations and safety. The grant was made through the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. “This federal award will help the Toledo Fire Department carry out its mission of protecting the lives and properties of Toledo residents,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.24.2014	TOLEDO (April 23, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur joined Max Richman, head of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, in denouncing the Republican budget as a threat to the social safety net for America’s senior citizens. Congresswoman Kaptur and Dr. Richman appeared at a rally at a senior center in Toledo. “Once again we have the Republican Ryan budget, which seeks to decimate Social Security and Medicare, the two most important programs for America’s senior citizens,” Kaptur said. “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I will do everything I can to protect our seniors and prevent the Ryan Budget from ever becoming the law of the land.” Dr. Richman called the Ryan budget “an all-out declaration of war against millions of Americans still struggling in our recovering economy. If it ever becomes law, seniors will immediately lose billions in prescription drug savings, free wellness visits and preventive services provided in the Affordable Care Act.” Congresswoman Kaptur voted against the Ryan budget when it was brought the House floor earlier this month. No Democrats supported his proposal, which would increase military spending by almost half a trillion dollars ($483 million) over a 10-year period while making $791 billion in cuts to domestic programs by repealing the Affordable Care Act and turning Medicaid over to the states in the form of block grants. “Millions of senior citizens depend on Social Security and Medicare for their livelihood. They are very concerned about the earned benefits they deserve, having paid into those systems for years and years,” Kaptur said. ###
04.23.2014	TOLEDO – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today welcomed an announcement by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that it would begin dredging Cleveland Harbor next month to facilitate the 2014 shipping season. “Dredging the harbor is an absolute must for Northern Ohio manufacturing and the thousands of jobs it supports,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “I am relieved that Cleveland will stay open for business this shipping season, but we have to focus on a longer-term solution.” The Corps of Engineers previously had threatened to stop dredging Cleveland harbor unless it received a permit to dump the material directly into Lake Erie, despite opposition from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. Today’s announcement means the Corps will follow existing protocol to dredge the harbor and dispose of the sediment in the confined disposal facility (CDF). Congresswoman Kaptur said she discussed the Cleveland situation extensively this morning with Major General John Peabody, a northern Ohio native who serves as deputy commanding general for civil and emergency operations, and thanked him for the decision to begin dredging not only in Cleveland but also Toledo. Kaptur also urged Gen. Peabody to adopt a policy of “beneficial reuse” of the dredged material whenever possible. And she encouraged the Corps of collaborate with all stakeholders, including the Port of Cleveland and the Western Lake Erie Basin Partnership, to develop filtering mechanisms to reduce sediment flow into a fragile Lake Erie, which has been subject to severe algal blooms hastened by lake turbidity. ###
04.23.2014	BAY VIEW, OH (April 22, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur joined local officials to announce $5.95 million in federal funding for a sewer project to serve the village of Bay View in Erie County. “This project will improve the quality of life for people here in this community and contribute to a cleaner, healthier Lake Erie,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It’s only appropriate that it is announced on Earth Day.” The federal award will finance construction of a new wastewater collection system to serve Bay View and the neighboring Bay Bridge area, which are located in a vital ecological area of the western basin of Lake Erie. Approximately $3.04 million will be provided in the form of a low-interest loan and the remaining $2.91 million will be in the form of a grant. At present, wastewater from the Bay View area is treated by individual on-site systems that discharge directly into Sandusky Bay and surrounding wetlands. Officials estimate that almost all the existing individual systems are failing and sending untreated or undertreated effluent directly into the bay. The project will provide sewer service for 381 residents and 11 commercial users, looking into the existing wastewater treatment plant in Sandusky. ###
04.17.2014	TOLEDO (April 16, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-9) and Toledo Mayor D. Michael Collins announced a federal award for environmental infrastructure improvements in the Cullen Park area of the Point Place neighborhood. The $500,000 award from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) will be used on various “green” initiatives such as rain gardens, wetlands and bioswales to mitigate the negative impact on water quality from urban runoff. Congresswoman Kaptur said, “The projects that we are announcing today will help control urban runoff and improve water quality. So their value extends beyond their specific location. They provide a template for better water management for the entire region." The city plans to install a bioswale and rain garden along a half mile of roadway in the Silver Creek watershed and retrofit Cullen Park with porous pavement, sand filters and vernal ponds. “I commend our local officials for their commitment to restoring the shoreline and helping clean up Lake Erie. Lake Erie is our most important natural asset, and this important award will improve the quality of life in the region, not just this particular neighborhood," Congresswoman Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur, ranking member on the House Appropriations energy and water subcommittee, has been a staunch supporter of the GLRI and the Toledo award is one of only four made to Ohio cities. ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 9, 2014) – Speaking on the House floor, Congresswoman Kaptur urged a renewed focus on untreated mental illness in America, citing the recent shooting incident at Fort Hood. “Our country has once again been ravaged by the convergence of mental instability and gun rampages,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the Defense Subcommittee of House Appropriations. “This is now the second shooting at Fort Hood in recent years. We must again ask ourselves: isn’t this time for a national conversation on untreated mental illness?” she said. Congresswoman Kaptur said the federal government should focus on early diagnosis of mental illness as well as neurological research, building on President Obama’s brain initiative. “We must probe the undiscovered functions of the human mind and human performance,” she said. “Advanced research and treatment will benefit both our returning veterans and all Americans who struggle with the unknown reaches of the unquiet mind.” She challenged her congressional colleagues “to make certain this latest tragedy is indeed the last tragedy. Let us measure up to this worthy challenge.”
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 8, 2014) -- Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congresswoman Kaptur again urged House leaders to allow a vote on extending emergency unemployment benefits to more than two million Americans. The Senate has already approved the extended benefits legislation, but the House still has not acted. Congresswoman Kaptur said 75,200 unemployed workers in Ohio need extended benefits. “These are hardworking Americans who are out there every day looking for unemployment or receiving education to be better prepared to re-enter the workforce,” she said. “As our economy continues recovering from the greatest recession in modern history, let us give them what they earned. We must avoid making this a partisan issue. Workers in both Republican and Democratic districts desperately need this critical lifeline. “Let the speaker bring up the Senate bill for a vote here so our house can finally pass legislation. Let us do what is sensible and allow these Americans to keep our economic recovery going by not falling into the ranks of poverty themselves. These hardworking Americans have earned their benefits.” ###
03.21.2014	CLEVELAND - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, joined leaders of the Joint Center for Energy Storage Research (JCESR) and Cleveland’s NASA Glenn Research Center at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding to collaborate on the development of next generation batteries for use in future space missions. JCESR, located at the Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne, Illinois, holds particular specialty in next generation battery development. When coupled with NASA Glenn’s missions in aerospace propulsion and advanced materials, the two complement each other greatly, according to Kaptur. “Storing energy presents challenges as we face rapid expansion of electronics for everything from cars to cell phones to lunar landers. Our region holds the potential to lead the world in battery storage innovation because of cooperative efforts such as this one between our national laboratories and the nation’s space agency,” said Kaptur. According to materials released by the two federal facilities, JCESR and NASA Glenn will focus on developing next generation batteries with energy capacities beyond those of lithium-ion batteries to meet the aggressive goals of the space program. As part of the collaboration, NASA Glenn will serve as a potential “first adopter” of developed high potential battery technologies suitable for aerospace applications. “We worked to forge this agreement to allow JCESR and NASA Glenn to advance research, testing, and prototype development of energy storage technologies that hold the potential to disrupt current battery storage methods,” commented Kaptur. The Congresswoman lauded the partnership by NASA and the U.S. Department of Energy laboratory as “just one of the ways we can collaborate to anchor scientific advancement and production know-how in the region to create the jobs of the future.” ### Background: NASA Glenn Research Center (GRC), in partnership with U.S. industry, universities, and other Government institutions, develops critical systems technologies and capabilities that address national priorities. GRC’s world-class research, technology and capability development efforts are keys to advancing space exploration of our solar system and beyond, while maintaining global leadership in aeronautics. Its work is focused on technological advancements in space flight systems development, aeropropulsion, space propulsion, power systems, nuclear systems, communications and human-related systems. The Joint Center for Energy Storage Research (JCESR) is a major partnership that integrates researchers from many disciplines to overcome critical scientific and technical barriers and create new breakthrough energy storage technology. Led by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory, partners include national leaders in science and engineering from academia, the private sector, and national laboratories. Their combined expertise spans the full range of the technology-development pipeline from basic research to prototype development to product engineering to market delivery. Funding for JCESR is provided by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science.
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON (March 13, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur expressed her appreciation to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel for his leadership during the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. Testifying before the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, Secretary Hagel addressed the situation in Ukraine prior to discussing the Defense Department’s Fiscal Year 2015 budget with committee members. Kaptur, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, said Secretary Hagel has shown exemplary leadership during the Ukraine crisis. He noted that the Obama Administration has focused on de-escalating the crisis and supporting the new Ukrainian government while “reaffirming our commitments to our allies, NATO partners, in Europe.” He acknowledged the leadership of defense subcommittee members in passing a $1 billion package of loan guarantees to the new government in Ukraine. “I know that many members of this committee, particularly Congresswoman Kaptur, have been instrumental in helping the United States stand with the Ukrainian people,” said Hagel, a former Republican senator from Nebraska. He said the United States has suspended all military-to-military engagements and exercises with Russia and augmented joint training with NATO partners. He said the events in Ukraine “underscore the need for America’s continued global engagement in leadership.”
03.07.2014	A 2011 Collective Bargaining Agreement Results in Moving Production of Medium-Duty Trucks from Mexico to Ohio CLEVELAND – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today praised the decision by Ford Motor Company to invest $168 million in Northern Ohio and move production of two new medium-duty truck models from Mexico to Ohio. Ford will assemble the F-650 and F-750 models at its Ohio Assembly Plant in Avon Lake. A news conference is scheduled at the plant later this morning. “A great victory for Avon Lake and Northern Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Such an achievement is a glowing testament to the relationship between Ford and the United Auto Workers. Their cooperation ensures that our region will be a force in motor vehicle manufacturing for many years to come.” Congresswoman Kaptur noted the production shift resulted directly from the collective bargaining agreement that was negotiated by Ford and the UAW in 2011. “Shifting production of the 2016 Ford F-650 and F-750 medium-duty trucks to Ohio Assembly Plant helps secure a solid future for the dedicated workers at this facility,” said Joe Hinrichs, Ford president of The Americas and a Northern Ohio native. The Ohio Assembly Plant, celebrating its 40th anniversary this year, currently produces the E-Series of cargo and passenger vans and other commercial vehicles. Ford said that cargo and passenger van production will end later this year, although cutaway vans and stripped chassis will continue to be built in Ohio throughout decade. A new Ford Transit will replace the E-series vans and will begin production this spring in Kansas City. Ford this week announced that the F-650 and F-750 commercial trucks will now include a V-8 turbodiesel with a six-speed transmission. # # #
03.06.2014	Kaptur Praises House Vote for Ukraine WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 6, 2014) -- Congresswoman Kaptur praised an overwhelming bipartisan vote today in the U.S. House of Representatives to approve $1 billion in aid to Ukraine in the wake of last week’s Russian invasion of Crimea. The measure passed the House 385-23 after it was brought to the House floor by the Appropriations Committee. “I am proud of our committee for passing the first bill, bringing the first bill to the floor, that stands with freedom lovers in Ukraine and around the world,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is a senior member of the committee. She condemned Russia’s violation of international law and multilateral agreements, saying, “We know a threat to liberty anywhere is a threat to liberty everywhere, and I rise in heartfelt support of this loan guarantee to allow Ukraine time to stabilize and secure its liberty.” Kaptur said the vote in the House reaffirmed the longstanding principle, which has been missing in recent years, that “politics stops at the water’s edge . . . I commend the bipartisan leadership of this House in acting with dispatch.” Kaptur, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, said “President Obama and Secretary Kerry have been working overtime to exert every effort to bring the free world together in their mutual self-interest—and that interest is liberty. Russia’s invasion of its undefended neighbor, Ukraine, cannot be allowed to stand.” She said later the vote reaffirmed the longstanding principle in American political life that “politics stops at the water’s edge.” Earlier in the day, Kaptur addressed a large pro-Ukrainian rally in at Lafayette Park in Washington, D.C. "Thank you for coming here today and standing with those halfway around the world in our beloved Ukraine, fighting for liberty, and we stand with them. The world community owes a moral debt to Ukraine." Earlier today, President Obama signed an executive order authorizing sanctions on individuals and entities responsible for violating Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Moreover, the State Department has imposed travel restrictions on certain individuals and officials. The House Foreign Relations Committee, meanwhile, approved a resolution condemning Russia’s occupation of Crimea and expressed support for financial and trade sanctions against Russia. ###
03.03.2014	TOLEDO, Ohio (March 3, 2014) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today called upon the world community to help strengthen the fledgling government in Ukraine, which she termed “very weak.” Appearing on CNN’s “New Day” program, Congresswoman Kaptur, co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, said the United States, working with its allies in Europe and elsewhere, has a “moral responsibility” to Ukraine. She termed the current situation “extremely dangerous” and represents “the most critical moment” that Ukraine has faced since the fall of the Soviet Union. “Ukrainians fight. And Russians fight. And the history of the Twentieth Century is that there is no place on earth where the soil is more blood soaked than there, and so there is a moral responsibility for our world. The United Nations should be working overtime to try to de-escalate the tensions there. I’m so disappointed in Russia. This was not the way to proceed. Right after the Olympics, we hoped for a different kind of world,” she said. “This particular type of incursion had been thought about by our own government, we were concerned about it, but Russia in some ways was isolated and felt vulnerable and part of the problem is the weakness of the Ukrainian state. Again, my plea for the world community, particularly the OSCE and the United Nations, the European Union, to do what is necessary to strengthen the existing government of Ukraine. “It’s very important for us to send observers to Ukraine now. We have relationships through our Guard with her military. I think we need to think very strategically with our European allies and allies around the world about how we add strength to Ukraine’s forces in the form of observers in the form of advice and assist her at this really critical moment—the most critical moment she has faced since 1991 with the fall of the Soviet Union.”
02.14.2014	TOLEDO (Feb. 14, 2014) - Congresswoman Kaptur today formally announced a federal award of $92,680 for technical assistance to Nueva Esperanza Community Credit Union, which serves a predominately Latino clientele in south Toledo. "I am very pleased to make this announcement," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Nueva Esperanza is so aptly named, because it really does bring 'new hope' to the people of this neighborhood and this community. It's vibrant and it's growing." Funds were received from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI), which enables institutions such as Nueva Esperanza to increase lending and investment in low-income communities. "It's appropriate that we're making this announcement on Valentine's Day," said Congresswoman Kaptur, "because helping Nueva Esperanza has really been a labor of love. The dedication of its leadership and the board of directors is impressive." Congresswoman Kaptur said the institution was built from the ground up, with CEO Sue Cuevas and board members signing up members individually at festivals and community events before opening its doors in the spring of 2011. She commended the institution for its continued outreach in the community and its steady growth.
02.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Feb. 10, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-9) this evening urged colleagues to stand up for the pro-democracy movement in Ukraine by passing House Resolution 447. “Passage of this bipartisan legislation will put Congress squarely on the side of the Ukrainian people,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves as co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. Sponsored by Rep. Eliot Engle (D-NY), the measure calls on the U.S. and the European Union to support a peaceful resolution to the political crisis in Ukraine. The bill urged all parties in the protracted political struggle “to engage in constructive dialogue to find a peaceful solution to Ukraine’s current political and economic crisis.” Furthermore, it calls on the government of Ukraine to pursue the perpetrators of violence against pro-democracy protestors and threatens economic sanctions against Ukraine if the government continues to violently repress the protestors’ rights. “Over the past few months, we have stood witness as Ukrainians have risen up, united in their desire for a freer, more transparent, and democratic Ukraine,” Kaptur said in remarks on the House floor. “The passage of this legislation is one more small stand in solidarity, one small opportunity to lend our support to those Ukrainians peacefully demonstrating in the freezing, bitter cold for a better future.” Kaptur quoted the opening words of the Ukrainian national anthem: “Ukraine’s glory has not died, nor her freedom. Upon us, fellow compatriots, fate shall smile once more.”
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 28, 2014) – In a speech today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congresswoman Kaptur called for an end to violence in Ukraine. “No more blood should be shed in Ukraine. The world community looks to Ukraine to live up to the magnificent nation she can be, linking East and West, North and South,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus. Here are her remarks from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: Mr. Speaker, I want to reference this morning the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which reads: “Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.” Sixty-five years after the ratification of this most important document, police in Ukraine continue to brutally fend off protestors and journalists who have been demonstrating for over two months in the bitter cold for their human rights and democratic freedoms. We know there have been countless injuries, and now, sadly, there have been five deaths. Kiev, a beautiful and historic city, now resembles a war zone, covered with ash and burning fires. The situation in Ukraine goes more dire every day, and we in Congress have the responsibility to stand with Ukraine’s freedom marchers. I call upon our fellow Members to support the passage of H.R. 447, which supports the democratic aspirations of the people of Ukraine and calls for condemnation of the regime’s undemocratic practices. We implore President Yanukovych and the opposition leaders to advance the cause of freedom for all the people of Ukraine. Last evening, Ukraine’s parliament rightly repealed its early passage of the anti-free assembly laws, and its prime minister resigned. These are hopeful signs to calm the unrest. As we gather this evening to learn about the state of our own Union, let us not forget the state of our trusted allies around the world. I ask President Obama to please draw attention to the economic and political crisis in Ukraine here tonight. No more blood should be shed in Ukraine. The world community looks to Ukraine to live up to the magnificent nation she can be, linking East and West, North and South. Her potential is unlimited. # # #
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 28, 2014) - Congresswoman Kaptur invited a first-year teacher in Lorain to be her guest at the State of the Union address in Washington, D.C. Manuel "Manny" Santana, a special ed teacher at Clearview High School, took advantage of unemployment benefits to go back to school and earn an education degree from Ashland University. "When we invest in our people, we reap the dividends for many years to come," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Manny Santana's experience illustrates the importance of extending employment insurance benefits, especially in a high-unemployment state such as Ohio. It's all about getting people into good jobs." Mr. Santana had worked at an auto plant and a small manufacturer before he was laid off in 2007. He took advantage of unemployment insurance, including extended benefits, and enrolled in college classes at Ashland through Lorain County Community College, earning his education degree. # # #
01.28.2014	The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Kaptur) for 5 minutes. Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, tonight, the President will deliver his State of the Union address to the Nation. Our Nation is great because of the patriotism, strength, and self-sacrifice of our people. In that spirit, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to give honor to two fallen Toledo firefighters, Stephen Machcinski and James Dickman. Mr. Machcinski is survived by his parents, sister, and brother. Mr. Dickman is survived by his wife, 3-year-old daughter, 1-month-old son, and parents. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of these brave men. These heroes responded to a two-story apartment building fire where people were reported inside. Toledo Mayor Michael Collins said it best: The average person would run in the opposite direction than they do, but that is their profession. As we all go about our busy lives every day, we often fail to recognize that we likely owe our way of life to someone else because of their sacrifice. Firefighters, police officers, and other emergency and law enforcement personnel put their lives on the line for us every single day. We should all take a moment every now and then to say thank you to these extraordinary citizens. Our hearts go out to the families who lost such brave and generous loved ones. May they be comforted with the knowledge that Stephen and James died in a noble profession founded to protect and serve our people and our Republic. They accomplished their mission for our city. We are forever indebted to them, and are flying flags over this Capitol today in their memory.
01.22.2014	TOLEDO, Ohio – (Jan. 23, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur today denounced the latest repressive measures taken by the government of Ukraine and urged President Viktor F. Yanukovich to observe the rule of law. Three people were killed in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, earlier today during protests against the Yanukovich regime. “Ukraine has spiraled out of control,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Ukraine. “I urge President Yanukovich to renounce repression and commit to the rule of law.” Kaptur noted that today’s violence followed Yanukovich’s implementation of new laws restricting the right of public assembly. Disregarding international norms, the pro-government faction of the Ukrainian parliament last week rammed through a series of laws that in effect criminalizes criticism of the government, bans free assembly, and imposes government censorship. Yanukovych immediately signed the laws into effect. “This would take Ukraine back to the where it was 25 years ago as a Soviet ‘republic,’” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “He is taking the country in the wrong direction.” The political crisis in Ukraine began when several thousand citizens began demonstrating in Kiev’s central square for closer association with the European Union. When the government responded with violence, hundreds of thousands of people joined the demonstrations against the endemic corruption that they claim has enriched Yanukovich and his supporters among the oligarchy. “Millions of Americans trace their heritage back to Ukraine, including many of my own constituents,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Furthermore, Ukraine is one of the most strategically important countries in Europe. It is vital to our national interest that it remain democratic and free. Indeed, we are bound by international agreements—stemming from its decision in 1994 to destroy the world’s third largest nuclear arsenal—to defend and protect that country’s independence and sovereignty.” Kaptur also called upon the government of Russia to cease using natural gas supplies and trade blockades as weapons against the democracy movement. Kaptur said: “As Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland has reiterated, the administration is following events in Ukraine closely and has spoken out repeatedly on behalf of the mutual goals of our country and the vast majority of the Ukrainian people—for that, I commend her, Secretary Kerry, Vice President Biden and our Ambassador to Ukraine, Geoffrey Pyatt. Ms. Nuland also asserted that the United States has a number of tools we can apply to honor our commitment to Ukraine and its people during this time of crisis including individual sanctions against the enemies of democracy and the rule of law, as well as those available through international treaties. In view of the escalating events and potential catastrophe in Ukraine, I call on the administration to take forceful and appropriate action.” # # #
01.17.2014	CLEVELAND (Jan. 16, 2014) -- At a public hearing in Cleveland, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued a call to action on the threat posed by Asian carp to the Great Lakes fishery and tourism industry. “Lake Erie is our chief strategic advantage,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “The two biggest threats to our Lake Erie ecosystem are the harmful algal blooms and Asian carp.” Congresswoman Kaptur said she recognized that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was trying to balance competing interests, but said the agency performed “a disservice to our region” by failing to make a recommendation for a strategy to prevent the carp invasion. She called the invading fish “a clear and almost-present danger” and urged Corps leadership to adopt a greater sense of urgency. She told reporter Jeff St. Clair of WSKU-FM, “Chicago is home of the futures market where all the grain trading occurs, where all the grain moves south, and so you’ve got this confluence of interests, economic interests, and meanwhile you’ve got this fish swimming up the Mississippi, coming our way, and we have to solve this economic and ecological problem together.” The Corps of Engineers recently released its long-awaited report on the status of the Asian carp, an aggressive invasive species that escaped from commercial fish farms in the South and has advanced north through the Mississippi River. Lake Erie advocates fear that Asian carp could enter the Great Lakes chain through the Chicago canal system, potentially decimating the valuable lakes fishery. Congresswoman Kaptur spoke out forcefully for restoring the natural state by separating Lake Michigan from the Mississippi River watershed. Chicago officials long ago engineered a change in the course of the Chicago River so it could essentially serve as a sanitary sewer. “We know that separation would be the most effective method to keep the carp out of the Great Lakes,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves as ranking member on the Energy and Water subcommittee of House Appropriations. She said the estimated cost of $18 billion should not doom the project, referring to the sums that have been spent on water projects around the country. She said preventing the carp invasion by separating Lake Michigan from the Mississippi River is a needed investment in the Great Lakes region’s economic future.
01.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 8, 2014) – Congresswoman Kaptur today urged quick House action on legislation to extend unemployment benefits. The Senate has passed a bill to extend unemployment insurance to approximately 1.3 Americans who lost their benefits at the end of 2013. “Extending benefits should be the first order of business in the new year,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The failure to extend benefits is putting a tremendous hardship on families who are struggling to survive and are very vulnerable.” She cited a report showing that expiration of extended benefits took $400 million out of the national economy last week alone, including $12.2 million from Ohio. An analysis by House Ways and Means Democrats showed that 39,100 Ohioans lost their benefits during the last week of December. The average weekly benefit lost was $311.82. “Families receiving unemployment benefits generally spend the money quickly on essentials such as food and shelter,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Taking this money out of the economy has a deep impact on our region.” Kaptur noted that Ohio is one of only five states where unemployment is rising. “Failing to extend benefits hits Ohio particularly hard,” she said. “This is a major piece of unfinished business.” The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated the failure to extend benefits will cost the U.S. economy 200,000 jobs this year.
12.17.2013	TOLEDO (Dec. 17, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the announcement by General Motors of a $30.6 million investment in the Toledo Transmission Operations for increased capacity for an existing 6-speed transmission and tooling for a new variant. “This is wonderful news for Toledo Transmission, its workers and the local economy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Toledo plant is already building the transmissions of the future and this investment further promotes the comeback of the auto industry in our region.” GM said it will invest almost $1.3 billion at five plants located in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana, creating or retaining approximately 1,000 jobs. The company has invested more than $10 billion in U.S. manufacturing facilities since 2009. “Once again we have evidence of the wisdom of rescuing the auto industry during the economic crisis,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Critics who deride the auto rescue fail to recognize that auto production is the lifeblood of the Northern Ohio economy. We are fortunate President Obama stepped forward to save it from elimination.” GM said the latest investments will support production of a new V6 engine and 10-speed transmission as well an existing six-speed transmission. “GM is committed to a strong American manufacturing base and creating jobs in dozens of communities throughout the country. Today’s announced plant upgrades continue the momentum of a resurgent auto industry,” said GM Executive Vice President and North America President Mark Reuss. UAW Vice President Joe Ashton said the announcement represents “a win for American workers. UAW is proud to be a part of this successful collaboration with GM that has helped rebuild the nation’s economy, created good paying, union jobs in communities across the country, and brought manufacturing that was moved overseas back to the U.S. This is further proof that collective bargaining works.”
12.16.2013	PARMA, Ohio (Dec. 14, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur spoke to a large rally here as Northeast Ohioans demonstrated support for the people of Ukraine during the current political crisis. “We’re here today because we care about the future of Ukraine and its people,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves as co-chair of the Ukraine Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Day after day in the streets of Ukraine, people have demonstrated, too. They want a say in setting a course for the future—oriented to the West and the European Union,” she said to a crowd that braved inclement weather in Cleveland. Kaptur said she has raised the Ukraine issue at the highest levels, including the U.S. State Department, and with relevant committee and subcommittee leaders in Congress. “We’re seeing one of those crucial moments of history. Those of us who love liberty want to see Ukraine become the true borderland nation that she is. Ukraine has a unique position on our globe. She can be a real bridge between east, west, north and south—and she needs to rise to that occasion,” she said. “In the meantime, we have to express ourselves clearly so that the Ukrainian government gets the message that it must respect the political rights of the Ukrainian people, including the opposition. “The U.S. can help Ukraine be an independent county that can stand on her own two feet to maximize her natural advantages as well as her academic prowess and to develop at last her enormous potential. “We have an obligation. The whole world is watching.”
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-9) today joined 165 Democrats today in urging Speaker John Boehner to allow a vote on extension of federal unemployment benefits before the House adjourns for the year. “Congress should not go home before extending jobless benefits,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We simply can’t leave more than a million Americans out in the cold.” She noted that an extension of unemployment benefits is particularly important to Ohio, where unemployment exceeds the national average and in fact is moving in the opposite direction. The national unemployment rate fell from 7.9% to 7.3% between October 2012 and October of this year, but the jobless rate in Ohio increased 6.9% to 7.5% in the same time period. “With unemployment increasing Ohio, this is certainly not the time to cut benefits,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “For many families, the job opportunities simply aren’t there and jobless aid is a real lifeline.” Congresswoman Kaptur said failure to extend benefits would work serious hardship on jobless families and their communities. She noted that jobless workers spend their unemployment benefits essentials such as food and gasoline, thus providing important demand for local businesses throughout Ohio. “Cutting benefits at this time will hurt Ohio and its economy,” she said. Extended benefits are scheduled to expire on December 28. If federal unemployment insurance expires, approximately 1.3 million Americans will immediately lose jobless aid. Another 1.9 million Americans would lose their eligibility for coverage during the first six months of next year.
12.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2013) -- Congresswoman Kaptur joined Ohio’s two U.S. senators, Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman, in urging the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to maintain crucial trade protections for Ohio tableware makers, including Toledo-based Libbey, Inc., during ongoing negotiations. In a letter to Ambassador Michael Froman, the legislators cited the importance of the glassware industry to Ohio: “We urge your continued support for the domestic glass tableware industry’s import-sensitive treatment. This issue is of crucial importance to workers in a number of states.” Congresswoman Kaptur urged the USTR to maintain protections from foreign competition for Libbey and Lancaster-based Anchor Hocking in the context of ongoing negotiations on the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership (TTP) and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) agreements. The domestic glassware manufacturing sector has for decades been categorized as “import-sensitive,” making Libbey and other glassware production companies eligible for international trade protections such as higher tariff enforcement. The TPP is an Asia-Pacific trade agreement involving the U.S. and 10 other nations, including Canada, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand as well as Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam. The U.S. has indicated its intent to include Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, at a future date. The TTIP initiative is a proposed trade agreement between the U.S. and the European Union. The Obama Administration is seeking congressional authority under so-called “fast track” provisions to negotiate the two agreements. The Ohio legislators were joined in the letter to Froman (attached) by Louisiana senators Mary Landrieu and David Vitter, Pennsylvania senator Bob Casey and House members John Fleming (LA) and Steve Stivers (OH). Libbey, based in Toledo since 1888, is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of glass tableware, with plants in Ohio and Louisiana and in four countries other than the United States. Libbey recently completed successful negotiations on new, three-year collective bargaining agreements with all four local unions in Toledo.
12.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2013) – Speaking on the House floor, Congresswoman Kaptur said rising inequality in America threatens job growth and future of the middle class. “The pyramid has gotten very pointed,” she said. “The money flows up and it isn’t flowing down. We have attrition in the middle class and every single American knows it.” She said the inequality is apparent in the makeup of the House of Representatives. “Fewer and fewer (representatives) come from the middle class,” she said. She said many of her colleagues “are so privileged they really can’t identify with the struggles of ordinary families. The same pyramid is operating here.” Congresswoman Kaptur noted that even during periods of high unemployment, companies are cutting back on benefits such as health care. “Those who have big capital, big sources, they invest money and make a lot of money for their shareholders and themselves, but the people they hire are falling further and further behind and they expect the government to compensate for low wages,” she said. Congresswoman Kaptur again voiced support for programs to boost manufacturing. “Manufacturing really does create something that wasn’t there before. The decline in manufacturing is so great. We’re trying to pick it up with President Obama. For every one of those jobs added, we create new wealth for our country.”
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 4) – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), speaking on the floor of the House, condemned government violence against the protestors in Ukraine and urged the Yanukovych regime to renounce its policy of reprisals. Congresswoman Kaptur, co-chair of the House Ukrainian Caucus, said the government should “encourage and ensure a more open society” rather than repressing dissent. Ukraine has been rocked by protests against the government’s decision to abandon negotiations towards a free trade agreement with the European Union. “For many years now, Ukrainians have called for and continue to desire a government and country that embraces democracy, liberty, and respects human rights,” Congresswoman Kaptur said in her statement. “Those citizens in the streets and all Ukrainians deserve the opportunity to peacefully demonstrate. They should not fear government retaliation.” Kaptur reiterated her support for “the Ukrainian people's European aspirations and their demands for democratic reform. Let the people of Ukraine move forward and face west and east and north and south with no fear of reprisal.”
11.22.2013	CLEVELAND (Nov. 22, 2013) – On a rainy day in Cleveland, Congresswoman Kaptur joined local leaders of the Irish-American community to honor the memory of President John F. Kennedy on the 50th anniversary of his assassination. Congresswoman Kaptur and State Rep. Mike Foley laid a wreath at the Irish Cultural Gardens to pay tribute to the legacy of America’s 35th president. They were joined by Cleveland City Council President Martin Sweeney, incoming president Kevin Kelley, and Councilman Martin Keane. “President Kennedy inspired us all to careers in public service,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “He will be remembered for his famous statement: ‘Ask not what your country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your country. Those words continue to inspire us.” Council President Sweeney said President Kennedy inspired millions of Irish-Americans. “I didn’t see my dad cry very often, but he cried that day” when the President was killed in November 1963.
11.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur, Erie-Ottawa International Airport Director Stan Gebhardt, Eigan Matho, Ashley Matho and U.S. Customs and Border Protection Port Director Eugene Matho Jr. at the celebration of the first international flight into Erie Ottawa International Airport (PCW). On Saturday Erie-Ottawa International Airport (PCW) welcomed its first international flight. U. S. Representative Marcy Kaptur, State Sen. Randy Gardner, State Rep. Chris Redfern, Erie and Ottawa County Commissioners and dozens of observers greeted the flight from Pelee Island, Ontario, Canada. The flight, piloted by Griffing Flying Service president Thomas Griffing, carried Ottawa County Commissioner Jim Sass and Erie County Commissioner Tom Ferrell. As the arriving airplane taxied up to the temporary U.S. Customs trailer (construction will begin in the spring for a permanent Customs building), it was met by the applause of the welcoming crowd, canon fire and a rifle salute by U.S. and British-uniformed re-enactors. The first international flight at PCW. “Tomorrow is today,” said Airport Director Stan Gebhardt of the culmination of two years of planning. “We must become global thinkers or become isolated.” Gebhardt thanked the Erie and Ottawa county commissioners for working together, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection Port Director Eugene Matho Jr thanked Gebhardt for being “a joy to work with”. “This improvement along the coast will lead to economic prosperity in the future,” said Representative Kaptur. “The potential for added tourism is unlimited.” Kaptur added that the $1 million plus in federal funds for the runway improvements and the coalition of federal, state and county agencies, will “make our way of life better.” Sen. Gardner joined in pledging support for the airport’s growth and for the potential for increased tourism from birders, boaters, shooters, and visitors to Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, Magee Marsh and Camp Perry. Gardner also said that he looked forward to continued cooperation with Rep. Redfern, noting that people are frustrated with political partisanship. Commissioner Ferrell compared the airport to the story of “The Little Engine That Could”. Commissioner Sass joined in predicting many good things for “the friendliest airport in Ohio”. In addition to the new designation and the runway improvements, the airport is nearing completion of construction of eight new hangars that will house 25-32 airplanes. At the adjacent Liberty Aviation Museum construction is also underway of a new hangar that will house the Tri-Motor construction project and provide storage for vintage aircraft. Ongoing construction projects, increased fuel sales and fees from more resident planes, Griffing Flying Service’s move, more attractions at the Aviation Museum and international accessibility all have the Little Airport That Could poised to provide a boost for the local economy and for the community. Written by Donna Lueke
11.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 12, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the VA’s announcement that three additional federal awards have been made to organizations in Cleveland to help eliminate homeless among veterans. Cleveland-based Volunteers of America of Greater Ohio, Inc. received two grants totaling $459,375 to serve chronically mentally ill homeless veterans, while the West Side Catholic Center in Ohio City received $52,500 to serve homeless women veterans, including women who have care of minor dependents. “These important awards bring us that much closer to eliminating homelessness among America’s veterans,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “I share that goal with President Obama.” The three grants for the Cleveland area were included in a list of 25 projects in 11 different states will share approximately $4.9 million to provide enhanced services for homeless veterans this year. These awards were made in addition to the approximately $300 million in preventive grants that were awarded earlier this year through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families program. “Our local partners have played a vital role in our effort to find, engage, and rescue every homeless veteran,” said Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki. “Until no veteran has to sleep on our nation’s streets, we still have work to do.” As a key component of VA’s plan to eliminate homelessness among veterans, the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program funds community agencies that provide services to homeless Veterans. The program promotes the development and provision of supportive housing and services with the goal of helping homeless veterans achieve residential stability, increase their skill levels and income, and obtain greater self-determination. On a single night in January 2012, a national count of homeless veterans totaled 62,619, which was more than 17 percent below the figure for 2009. As part of President Obama’s and Secretary Shinseki’s plan to eliminate veteran homelessness in 2015, VA has committed over $1 billion in fiscal year 2014 to strengthen programs that prevent and treat the many issues that can lead to veteran homelessness. For more information, visit VA’s website for the National Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Office at https://www.va.gov/homeless/GPD.ASP. Additionally, VA has a National Call Center for Homeless Veterans, 1-877-4AID VET (1-877-424-3838), https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/NationalCallCenter.asp.
11.06.2013	NORTH BALTIMORE, Ohio (Nov. 6, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur joined Vice President Joe Biden at a visit to the CSX freight terminal here to highlight the importance of distribution in the economy of Northwest Ohio. “We are the multi-modal capital of the Midwest and a great logistics site,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our location is ideal—almost 100 million people live within a 10-hour drive,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We must make steady and wise investments in our physical infrastructure so we remain competitive and create even more jobs in the distribution, transportation and material handling sectors.” Kaptur said Northwest Ohio features the port of Toledo, the confluence of several major rail lines, and the intersection of the Ohio Turnpike and Interstate 75. According to the Regional Growth Partnership, the CSX terminal in North Baltimore is “the cornerstone of a new double-stack freight rail corridor” linking the Midwest and the East Coast. U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx accompanied Vice President Biden on the visit. “We welcome Secretary Foxx with open arms back to Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, noting that Secretary Foxx had once served as a law clerk to Judge Nathaniel Jones on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati.
10.28.2013	PARMA (Oct. 28) -- Representative Kaptur joined congressional colleague Jim Renacci (OH-16) at a ribbon cutting ceremony at the new Parma branch of the Cuyahoga County Public Library system. Located between city hall and Parma Community General Hospital, the branch is the latest project to be completed as part of the county library system’s Facilities Master Plan. Congresswoman Kaptur and Congressman Renacci presented Executive Director Sari Feldman with a U.S. flag that was flown over the Capitol for the grand opening. “What a remarkable asset for the community!” Congresswoman Kaptur exclaimed. “It is more than a library—it’s the center of community life and it’s located right in the center of Ohio’s seventh largest city. Photo by Brian Byrne, Northeast Ohio Media Group “Congratulations to Mayor Tim DeGeeter and everyone in Parma. And thank you, Chairman (Bob) Varley and the Board of Trustees for believing in the community.” Hundreds of Parma residents attended the grand opening ceremony and toured the 43,000-square-foot facility. The new Parma Branch features: public computer stations with high-speed Internet access; thousands of books, DVDs, CDs, and other materials; community meeting spaces; an interactive Tech Wall that is truly state of the art; and, an interactive entertaining children’s area—the Play, Learn and Grow space.
10.21.2013	TOLEDO (Oct. 21, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur helped officials of the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority break ground for the $18 million Ironville Terminal warehouse along the Maumee River in East Toledo. “This investment in our community’s infrastructure will mean jobs now and jobs tomorrow,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “Combined with previous investments, the Ironville project will lock Toledo in as the multi-model transportation center of the Great Lakes region.” The Ironville Docks warehouse will be built on a 180-acre former refinery site on Front Street and should be operational sometime next year. “The redevelopment of this land will provide new space for unloading ships and new lay down areas for cargo, which will allow the Port of Toledo to continue as a leader on the Great Lakes,” said Paul Toth, president and chief executive officer of the port authority. “Without the help of local, state and federal agencies who believed in this project ... the redevelopment of this riverfront site would not have been possible.” He said the warehouse project will involve 100,000 hours of skilled construction labor. A public-private partnership, the Ironville project has used a combination of new market tax credits and state financing mechanisms in three phases: Construction of rail line to connect to the Norfolk Southern track; Preparation of a deep-water marine dock to accommodate barges, lake trading and ocean vessels; and, Installation of a multi-modal delivery system that will facilitate rapid freight unloading and handling of any dry bulk material along with a 19,000-square-foot warehouse with rail spurs and an overhead crane. St. Lawrence Seaway Administrator Betty Sutton, a former colleague of Congresswoman Kaptur, also joined in the ceremonies to mark the final phase of construction. # # #
10.10.2013	
10.07.2013	TOLEDO (Oct. 7, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur today welcomed Israeli agriculture expert Zion Daco to the Ninth Congressional District of Ohio for a tour of the University Church community garden on Hill Avenue and a discuss of innovative techniques to enhance food production.“Food production can not only help fight hunger in our community, as exemplified by the University Church initiative, but also serve as a source of sustainable jobs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who has made urban agriculture a priority. Kaptur became acquainted with Mr. Daco during a visit to Israel under the auspices of the Jewish federations in Toledo and Cleveland. As general manager of the Eden Research Farm in Beit Shean, which is located at the junction of the Jordan River Valley and the Jezreel Valley, Mr. Daco has promoted innovative agriculture to promote cross-border collaboration between Israel and Jordan.University Church, which is located on an eight-acre tract in south Toledo, has committed to an ambitious community garden initiative that includes vegetable production in hoop houses, aquaculture and beekeeping.“Zion Daco's innovative techniques are remarkable and useful for our community gardens throughout Northern Ohio,” Congresswoman Kaptur said.“As soon as I saw his presentation in Israel, I started thinking about how to bring him to our area to share his expertise in energy efficiency, which can help our greenhouse industry, and making community gardens more productive and profitable.”
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 30, 2013) – Congresswoman Kaptur today announced a federal award of $416,647 to the local Criminal Justice Coordination Council for an offender re-entry program. The funds were made available by the U.S. Justice Department as part of the Second Chance Act of 2007 to help local communities respond comprehensively to the increasing numbers of adults and juveniles who are released from prison, jail or juvenile residential facilities. “It is increasingly important that we see offenders make successful transitions back into the community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It directly affects our community’s security.” The Second Chance Act is designed to help local communities design and develop comprehensive strategies to increase public safety and reduce recidivism. The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council is a 13-member unit of local government that consists of criminal justice professionals, elected officials and citizens representatives.
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 28, 2013) -- Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the largest-ever contingent of Honor Flight veterans to the World War II Memorial. More than 200 World War II veterans from New York and New England visited the popular memorial, which was built after Congresswoman Kaptur waged a long legislative battle. Former Secretary of State Colin Powell attended the ceremony, which was organized by the daughter of a World War II veteran who was born in Toledo. A major retail chain in the Northeast sponsored the three coordinated Honor Flights that brought the veterans to our nation's capital.
09.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 27, 2013) -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed the announcement by the U.S. Department of Justice that Cleveland and Toledo each will receive $1.25 million from the COPS Hiring Program. The funding will cover 10 officers for each department. The COPS Grant program will provide 75 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for a three-year period for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions, including filling existing unfunded vacancies, or for rehired officers who have been laid off or scheduled to be laid off as a result of local budget cuts. CHP provides funding to address the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. CHP grants go directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. Priority consideration was given to agencies that requested officer positions in order to deploy school resource officers, committed to hiring military veterans and/or focused on homicide or gun violence.
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 25, 2013) – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) has introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to make the Ohio Veterans Home and other state veterans homes eligible for homelessness grant funding from the Department of Veterans Affairs.Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio introduced a companion bill in the U.S. Senate.“No veteran in America should go homeless,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This legislation would make the Ohio Veterans Home eligible for resources from the VA to serve homeless veterans throughout Northern Ohio.”State veterans homes, including the OVH, currently are not eligible for funding under the VA’s homelessness grant program. Congresswoman Kaptur has urged the department to change its policy and now has collaborated with Senator Brown to make a change in law that would enable the OVH eligible for funding. Current Federal law permits state veterans homes to work under three authorized programs: VA Nursing Home Care, VA Adult Day Health Care, and VA Domiciliary. Because state veterans homes are not permitted to receive other federal funds, they are not eligible for grants under the VA pilot program, Health Care for Homeless Veterans Program (HCHV). There are still too many veterans who are homeless, however, and many state veterans homes have available space that could support them. # # #
09.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Sept. 10) -- Congresswoman Kaptur made the following statement this morning on the House floor about the crisis in Syria: Madam Speaker: I'd like to thank President Obama for his considered judgment in the matter of Syria and for not headstrong rushing the United States to military action. I thank him for his consultations with members of Congress in both chambers and for allowing the American people time to express their views. We must all weigh the consequences and repercussions of unilateral U.S. action. As the world's greatest military power, we must employ our power wisely and only with good measure. I have every confidence that our U.S. military can perform any task to which they are ordered successfully. We owe them our deepest respect and gratitude. I also want to thank and acknowledge the government of Russia for early reports we are learning about regarding discussions underway to rid Syria of weapons caches of danger, both to Syria as well as our global community. Both Russia and the United States, as the world's premiere nuclear powers, hold awesome responsibility to move our world to a more peaceful and stable posture. Surely, we must focus that effort on the very unstable set of states across the Middle East. Russia and our country both have suffered from terrorist attacks and well understand the consequences of unresolved conflict and of terrorists preying on unstable states. My hope is that the Russian initiative gains momentum. And let all nations of goodwill on our globe find a way forward to address the tragic consequences of the Syrian civil war, starting with greater humanitarian assistance to refugees that have flowed into adjoining nations like Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey -- straining the ability of those nations to even hold their internal affairs together. Surely our world can better address the human suffering that is evident to anyone who is paying attention. Surely, surely, all reasonable world leaders can find a better way forward for Syria and for us all. Click here to view the video.
08.29.2013	The Tall Ships have entered the Western Basin of Lake Erie and will be display this weekend in celebration of the 200th anniversary of the pivotal battle in the War of 1812. Special events will be held throughout the weekend along the coast. Put-In-Bay will host the heralded U.S. Navy Band, and a historical re-enactment of the Battle of Lake Erie begins at noon on Sunday.
08.22.2013	AUGUST 22 - Congresswoman Kaptur today welcomed the decision by the U.S. Department of Treasury to provide a $60 million boost to combat housing blight in Ohio through demolition of vacant properties. The Ohio Housing Finance Agency (OHFA) has received Treasury’s approval to use up to $60 million from Ohio’s remaining Hardest Hit Funds for demolition efforts. The Thriving Communities Institute estimates that 15,000 vacant houses exist in Cuyahoga County alone. “Treasury’s decision will help alleviate the demolition bottleneck,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who has been involved in a bipartisan effort by the Northern Ohio congressional delegation to free up the “Hardest Hit” funds for demolition. “This allows us to take the important first step in rebuilding and revitalizing neighborhoods that have been devastated by the implosion in the housing market.” OHFA, an agency of state government, intends to make the funds available in as many as 16 counties in Ohio with established “land banks.” The Obama Administration launched the Hardest Hit Fund in 2010 to help homeowners to avoid foreclosure in the areas hardest hit by steep home price declines and unemployment.Participating housing finance agencies such as OHFA implemented various initiatives to help homeowners struggling with their mortgage payments. Kaptur joined with Republican colleague David Joyce (OH-14) on pending legislation to permit the use of “Hardest Hit” funds for demolition of vacant structures. The bill was co-sponsored by seven other members of the Ohio delegation, including Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Tim Ryan (OH-13), and Jim Renacci (OH-16) in Northern Ohio.
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 11) -- Congresswoman Kaptur announced a $1.7 million award to the Cleveland-based FrontLine Service from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “No veteran in this country should be homeless or sleeping on the street,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This valuable award will help to alleviate homelessness among our veteran population in Cuyahoga County.” Kaptur, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, said the award will allow FrontLine Service to provide support for approximately 400 low-income veterans as they make the transition to permanent housing. Funding for FrontLine Service from the Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) program was part of a nationwide announcement of $300 million in grants to serve approximately 120,000 veterans and their families.The SSVF Program supports VA’s efforts to prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and rapidly re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness. Grantees such as FrontLine Service provide a range of services that promote housing stability and play a key role in connecting veterans and their family members to VA services such as mental health care and other benefits. This is the third year SSVF grants have helped veterans and their families find or remain in their homes. Last year, VA provided about $100 million to assist approximately 50,000 veterans and family members, including $995,709 to Mental Health Services for Homeless Persons, Inc. (the previous name of FrontLine Service).The program has been shown to generate positive results. Almost 90 percent of the veterans in the U.S. who completed the program in 2012 successfully transitioned to permanent housing. # # #
07.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 9) – Congresswoman Kaptur today announced $133,600 in improvements to roadways in and around the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge. Congresswoman Kaptur said the Federal Highway Administration made the award to improve road conditions to support the refuge’s popular auto tour. “These improvements will promote increased visitation and access to the incomparable Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. The auto tours, which are held monthly, involve a seven-mile drive through areas of the refuge that normally are closed to the public. The tours make it possible for the public to see a wider variety of wildlife, including birds. The Ottawa refuge is reputed to be one of the top 10 birdwatching sites in America. As visits have surpassed 130,000 annually, the impact on county roads in and around the refuge has increased, even prompting road closures. In addition, flooding and burrowing animals have created additional hazards to the roadways.
07.08.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 8, 2013) -- Congresswoman Kaptur joined fellow Reps. Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and David Joyce (OH-14) along with U.S. Sen. Rob Portman in support of the Ohio Housing Financing Agency's consideration of a proposal that would make $60 million available in federal funds for demolition of vacant and blighted homes in targeted areas of the state. While the state pursues a waiver from the U.S. Department of Treasury, the four solons will continue to advocate for bipartisan legislation they introduced in the House and the Senate respectively to create a permanent restructuring of the Hardest Hit Fund program. "The Northeast Ohio delegation has presented a united front on this important concern. Attacking blight is a bipartisan issue,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The need is well documented in Cuyahoga County and our focus is simple. We are looking to every possible source to get adequate resources to help the hardest-hit neighborhoods recover." “Communities severely impacted by the foreclosure crisis need flexibility to not only help struggling homeowners but also to address the immediate need of removing vacant, blighted homes which lower property values for surrounding homeowners,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “I commend the state of Ohio for seeking a smart and sensible use of resources available in the Hardest Hit Fund that have gone unused for the past three years.” “I’m pleased that we’re moving forward together to improve the safety of our communities and protect responsible homeowners from burdensome vacant or abandoned properties. These funds will help increase home values while decreasing crime in our community. This is a win-win for Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Joyce. "Demolishing vacant and abandoned buildings is vital to the safety of our communities," said Senator Portman. "This bipartisan initiative has the support of Mayors across Ohio along with Democrats and Republicans in Congress. I support a balanced approach that opens more funds for demolition while protecting struggling homeowners trying to make ends meet.” In June, the Treasury Department granted a waiver to the state of Michigan to use $100 million in Hardest Hit Funds for demolition purposes. Approximately $400 million of the $570.4 million allocated to Ohio under the program since 2010 remains unused.
07.03.2013	TOLEDO (July 3) – The naming of Jeep as America's “most patriotic brand” is a well-deserved honor, said Congresswoman Kaptur.“Toledo has been the home of Jeep since General George Marshall realized our troops in World War II needed a ‘general purpose,’ or ‘GP’ vehicle,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “It will come as no surprise to generations of workers in Toledo that Jeep is the ‘most patriotic’ brand. It’s really what we’re all about as a community.”Jeep was named “the most patriotic brand” in a survey conducted by Brand Keys, a New York research firm, beating out such iconic brands as Coca-Cola, Hershey’s, and Disney.Kaptur noted that the branding results were released one day after Chrysler reported that sales of the Toledo-made Jeep Wrangler climbed 12 percent last month. # # #
07.02.2013	TOLEDO (July 1) -- A bipartisan quartet of federal legislators representing Ohio--including U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman, along with Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-9) and Congressman Bob Latta (OH-5) today urged the Postmaster General to delay any action on plans to consolidate mail processing in the region.A proposed plan to close the Toledo Processing and Distribution Center could threaten as many as 400 jobs in Toledo and the quality of mail service in the region. The legislators made their request in a letter to Postmaster General Patrick R. Donahoe, urging delay until the Office of Inspector General has completed an audit of the Area Mail Processing study, which recommended consolidation of the Toledo processing and distribution center, threatening approximately 400 jobs.“We remain concerned that consolidating the Toledo (center) could cause delays in mail delivery and not produce the proposed savings,” they wrote, citing an Inspector General audit that found delays in mail delivery and missed performance benchmarks after a previous consolidation plan resulted in closing the Lima processing facility.Sen. Brown: “Consolidating the Toledo Processing & Distribution Center could undermine mail delivery service and result in job loss. The USPS should work closely with the Toledo community and conduct its own audit before taking any harmful actions that can be avoided.”Sen. Portman: “Recent USPS consolidations have been tough for a lot of hardworking Ohio postal employees and the communities they serve. The USPS should approach these decisions with the utmost transparency, full participation from the affected communities and workforce, and a thorough review of the facts. The Inspector General’s report is an important part of this process for the Toledo community and should receive due consideration.” Rep. Kaptur: “The Postmaster General needs to get all the relevant information before making a final decision on the jobs at the Toledo processing center. The prudent course is to await the completion of the Inspector General’s report.”Rep. Latta: “Citizens across north west and west central Ohio depend on reliable and timely mail delivery service from the United States Postal Service. It's important that all pertinent information is collected and thoroughly reviewed before a final decision is made. An OIG audit will be critical to ensuring that the integrity and accountability of the United States Postal Services’ operations are maintained." # # #
07.01.2013	TOLEDO (July 1) -- Congresswoman Kaptur today called upon House Republican leadership to turn back a doubling of the interest rate on federal student loans. The rate climbed from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent. “The sound you’re hearing is thousands of doors slamming shut on students from lower- and middle class families,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “By failing to act, congressional Republicans have facilitated a 100 percent increase in interest rates. That will add thousands of dollars to the debt burdens of seven million students and families who can’t afford to pay for college in cash.”Kaptur said President Obama has put forward a long-term solution that cuts rates this year on almost all new loans, ensures students have access to affordable repayment options, and rejects doubling the interest rate in order to pay for deficit reduction.Congresswoman Kaptur is one of 169 Democrats who have signed a discharge petition that seeks to force Speaker John Boehner to bring to the House floor legislation to prevent the rate hike.
06.28.2013	Congresswoman Kaptur joined Avon Lake Mayor Greg Zilka and NRG Energy regional president Lee Davis to discuss recent developments at the Avon Lake power plant, which NRG acquired last year in the merger with GenOn. “We’re definitely excited about NRG’s plans to keep the plant open and generating cleaner energy,” Kaptur said during a news conference at the facility on Lake Road. “I couldn’t be happier that NRG chose Avon Lake to be part of its long-term strategy.” Kaptur, who is ranking member on the Energy and Water Subcommittee of House Appropriations, said “NRG management really did their homework. They have been great to work with.” The plant had been expected to close by 2015. But NRG officials announced on Monday they plan to convert the plant’s coal-fired boilers to burn natural gas also and to use the facility to generate electricity during peak load times on the power grid. The project is expected to be completed by the summer of 2016. Kaptur described the announcement as “somewhat bittersweet” in that the plant would operate with approximately half as many workers and generate commensurately less tax revenue. “On the other hand, the plant will continue to operate. It will not be shuttered. And its value clearly will be recognized by everyone in the industry,” Kaptur said. Kaptur said she hosted meetings both in her office and attended meetings with Mayor Zilka, council members and community leaders. She also discussed the plant with NRG officials. She said David Crane, NRG’s president and chief executive officer, oversaw an exhaustive review of Avon Lake and other plants in order to take full advantage of the Gen-On merger. “NRG management really looked at the Avon Lake plant with fresh eyes,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “As Lee Davis said, ‘Not all coal facilities are created equally.’ So they really went over this with a fine-toothed comb. The market was there. Two big factors were access to low-cost natural gas and boilers that could easily be retrofitted. “The fact is, some of the other coal-burning plants did not survive. They were deactivated. But at the end of the day, Avon Lake was an important part of NRG’s strategy, along with New Castle.” NRG said Avon Lake (732 megawatts) and New Castle, Pennsylvania (330 megawatts) would both be retrofitted by the summer of 2016. They were among eight coal-fired plants that were scheduled to be closed by GenOn. NRG is currently the largest commercial generator of electric power in the country. “Would we have liked to keep the plant running full tilt with the current size workforce? Of course. But this is far preferable to losing the plant entirely,” Kaptur said. “NRG has crunched the numbers and they realize they can generate electricity more efficiently this way—by converting the right coal-fired plant into a gas-fired plant—and do it with less capital outlay and therefore less debt. “The fact is, some of the other coal-burning plants did not survive. They were deactivated. But at the end of the day, Avon Lake was an important part of NRG’s strategy, along with New Castle. But Avon Lake is more than twice as big.”
06.27.2013	MEDIA ADVISORY FRIDAY MORNING 10am: AVON LAKE POWER PLANT Rep. Kaptur, Mayor Zilka, NRG Exec To Discuss Avon Lake Power Plant Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur will join Avon Lake Mayor Greg Zilka and NRG Energy regional president Lee Davis at the Avon Lake power plant, where NRG plans to add gas-firing capability. NRG officials announced Monday in Houston that they intend to keep the plant open and retrofit existing coal-fired boilers to burn natural gas by the summer of 2016. The plant had been expected to close, but now will remain operational to feed power into the grid during “peak load” times, such as extremely hot days. The retrofitted plant would retain approximately half the current work force of approximately 75. WHO: Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Lee Davis, East Region President, NRG Energy, Inc. WHAT: News Conference – Future of the Avon Lake Power Plant WHEN: FRIDAY MORNING, 10 A.M. WHERE: Avon Lake Power Plant, Lake Road # # # For additional information: Steve Fought (703) 587-8165
06.27.2013	Congresswoman Kaptur announced a $1.1 million federal award to Berea-based OhioGuidestone for workforce and community development programs for young people in Cuyahoga County. “Congratulations to OhioGuidestone for winning this competitive federal award,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who supported the grant application. “We need to support organizations such as OhioGuidestone that have proven track records of helping at-risk youth escape the cycle of poverty.” YouthBuild is a workforce and community development program that serves youth ages 16-24, focusing on high school dropouts who might be aging out of foster care or have disabilities. The program uses a dual program model that combines academic instruction and occupational skills training. The objective for the client is to obtain a high school diploma or GED. Participants receive an opportunity to gain industry-recognized employee skills, particularly in the construction industry. The award to Guidestone, Congresswoman Kaptur said, was part of a second round of YouthBuild competition that allows the expansion of occupational skills training beyond construction and into other in-demand sectors. The expanded training, known as Construction Plus, will focus on in-demand occupations within the healthcare, computer technology and advanced manufacturing sectors. Programs must also demonstrate the integration of leadership development and community service to ensure that youth maintain a connection to their local community through service learning and volunteerism. Guidestone, formerly the Berea Children’s Home and Family Services, will celebrate its 150th anniversary next year. The social service organization was founded in 1864 as the German Methodist Orphan Asylum, which was dedicated to providing shelter for Civil War orphans and care for neglected, dependent or abandoned children. # # #
06.26.2013	Congress enacted the Glass-Steagall Small Banking Act in 1933. It’s time to bring it back. “Glass-Steagall was serving our country and our banking system well when Congress repealed it in 1999,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who has sponsored legislation to reinstate the landmark legislation. "Just look what happened several years later--a meltdown of the financial system." Kaptur stressed that the protections in Glass-Steagall are meant for individuals, families and communities. The biggest banks are more interested in speculation to drive their short-term profits than following prudent banking practices that work for everybody. We know. We’re still climbing out of the crater that Wall Street created leading up to the national financial crisis in 2008. Congresswoman Kaptur’s legislation, the Return to Prudent Banking Act of 2013 (H.R. 129) would rebuild the wall between commercial and investment banking activities. Wall Street opposed these reforms in the 1930s and Wall Street is opposing reform just as vigorously today. They are busy as we speak, trying to gut the Dodd-Frank regulations. But America desperately needs to restore a secure, dependable, and prudent banking system so we can get on with the job of job creation and protect the American people. A recent report by Public Citizen, “Safety Glass,” documents widespread support among experts for a return to prudent and responsible banking practices. Kaptur’s bipartisan bill, H.R. 129, currently has 66 co-sponsors. https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/129?q=%7B%22search%22%3A%5B%22H.R.+129%22%5D%7D&resultIndex=2
06.25.2013	Cleveland, OH - After months of effort to facilitate the continued use of the Avon Lake Power Plant, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) welcomed the announcement from NRG Energy that it intends to convert the plant from coal to natural gas. “This is a grand slam for the Avon Lake community, providing continued revenue for the city, maintaining local jobs, diversifying power supply for the region, and reducing carbon emissions. NRG has been a great partner and I am happy to have worked with the company to help facilitate this change of course. I look forward to continuing work with NRG and Avon Lake to ensure the success of the announced project,” Kaptur said.Kaptur, the Ranking Member of the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee has worked with the company since early this year to ensure continued operation of the plant, which was slated for closure in 2015 by the former owner GenOn Energy. When informed of the planned closure, Kaptur immediately began discussions with the plant’s new owner, NRG Energy, to seek alternative solutions to maintain operation at the facility. Given Ohio’s natural gas resources, conversion was deemed the most viable solution.###
06.24.2013	Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the latest delegation from Honor Flight Cleveland to the World War II Memorial. The group included 25 World War II veterans and also their “guardians.”Congresswoman Kaptur shepherded the legislation for the World War II memorial through Congress after getting the idea from a constituent who had fought in the Battle of the Bulge.“It’s always poignant when these heroes of World War II visit the Memorial,” Kaptur said. “Their selfless sacrifice is an inspiration to all of us.”The World War II Memorial honors the 16 million Americans who served in the military during the war effort, including the 400,000 who died, as well as everyone who supported the war effort at home. U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman also visited the Memorial to greet the Cleveland honorees.Ford Motor Company, which operates plants in Brook Park and Lorain, paid the costs of the veterans’ trip to our nation’s capital.While in D.C., they visited several war memorials and also Arlington National Cemetery.
06.21.2013	TOLEDO – Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the federal Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative here for its Midwest regional summit meeting by urging a recommitment to the goal of energy independence as a way to create jobs and keep America strong. “We have a long tradition of innovation in our state—from the Wright Brothers to Edison to Kettering—and we must also innovate our way to energy independence,” Kaptur said to attendees of the U.S. Department of Energy-sponsored event at the University of Toledo. “We appreciate Assistant Secretary (Dave) Danielson coming to this hotspot for energy development.” Kaptur noted Toledo’s prominence as a solar energy research center and Cleveland’s bid for federal support of a major wind energy project off the Lake Erie shore. “The LEEDCo project is one of the most exciting projects in the country,” she said, noting that Ohio already has more than 400 megawatts online already and the potential for as much as 6,000 additional megawatts of capacity. “Energy dependence is our chief strategic vulnerability,” she said. “By making clean energy a national priority, we can end our harmful dependence on foreign oil and create thousands of new jobs in manufacturing right here in America’s heartland.” The Midwest summit was the first of several regional events that are designed to showcase regional clean energy manufacturing activities and seek input on how the initiative can strengthen national and regional manufacturing competitiveness. “Clean energy can drive America’s twenty-first century economy, but only if we create the right environment to allow industry to grow and thrive,” Kaptur said. “That’s what we’ve been doing in Northern Ohio—investing in research and development and protecting against foreign competitors who seek to undermine our markets through dumping and to steal our intellectual property through industrial espionage.” Also attending the regional summit were Akron native Deborah Wince Smith, president of the Council on Competitiveness, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, and representatives from ArcelorMittal, Eaton Corporation, General Electric, and First Solar, along with organizations such as NorTech and the AFL-CIO.
06.14.2013	Facilities Sustained Damage During Hurricane Sandy FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 14, 2013 CONTACT: Nathan Facey (202) 225-4146 or Steve Katich (419) 259-7500 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced $2.9 million to replace the World War II-era Quonset huts at Camp Perry and make additional improvements to the facility, including storm drainage and sidewalks. “We’ve been working for more than a dozen years to upgrade these facilities at Camp Perry,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves on the defense subcommittee of House Appropriations. “Camp Perry is an important facility in our overall readiness strategy and I am pleased to announce that this long-awaited project is now a reality.” Kaptur said work will begin by the end of this month at the Ottawa County facility and is scheduled for completion in December, meaning the project will be completed prior to the 2014 National Matches. Kaptur noted that the hutments, which were built in the 1940s, sustained significant structural and environmental damage during the storms and flooding caused by Hurricane Sandy. She said Guard officials agreed to replace the facilities after inspecting the storm damage and factoring in the cost of repair and the age of the facilities. The project will include 25,600 square feet of huts and associated services. “I thank the Army for finding the funds needed for this major upgrade at Camp Perry,” Kaptur said, noting that funds will be redirected from projects in other parts of the country. # # #
05.13.2013	Congresswoman Kaptur said the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded Toledo $200,000 to help develop an area-wide strategy to develop the Overland Industrial Park in conjunction with the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority. “This award demonstrates the federal commitment to helping make the Overland Industrial Park a successful engine for job growth in our city,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. Toledo was one of only 20 projects across the country to share in the EPA’s $4 million Brownfields Area-Wide Planning program, which seeks to help communities develop abandoned and potentially contaminated waste sites. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that recent announcement that Airgas will construct the first new building on the 111-acre site and create 25 new jobs. “The Overland location, with improved interchange access off I-75, represents a win-win for all stakeholders," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This public-private partnership can help us reuse this prime property at the most-travelled nexus in our entire Northwest Ohio region." With assistance from Congresswoman Kaptur and the USEPA, the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority acquired the historic property in 2010. The city will conduct community involvement activities, existing conditions research and also brownfields site reuse planning that will lead to a plan to help attract businesses. EPA's Brownfields Program empowers states, communities, and other stakeholders to work together to prevent, assess, safely clean up, and sustainably reuse brownfields. A brownfield site is real property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. Congress, with Congresswoman Kaptur's support, passed the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act in 2002 to help communities around the country clean up and revitalize sites. Under this law, EPA provides financial assistance through competitive grant programs for site assessment, cleanup, area-wide planning, and job training. “The area-wide planning approach recognizes that revitalization of the area surrounding the brownfield site is critical to the successful reuse of the property as cleanup and redevelopment of an individual site," said Mathy Stanislaus, assistant administrator for EPA’s Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response. "The locally-driven planning process will help the commuinity create a shared vision for and commitment to revitalization.” The federal EPA launched the program in 2010 to adopt a broader approach to existing brownfields grant programs. Since its inception, EPA brownfields investments have leveraged more than $19 billion in cleanup and redevelopment. Over the years, the investment of federal funding has leveraged more than 87,000 jobs from both public and private sources. # # #
05.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Toledo is one of 10 communities that will be added to a major federal initiative aimed at revitalizing urban waterways, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced today.U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Bob Persiacepe will make the official announcement tomorrow afternoon at the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan.“Including Toledo in the Urban Waters Federal Partnership program is a big step forward for us,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We worked hard to get our region included in this initiative because a healthy Lake Erie is vitally important to a healthy local economy.”Kaptur said the Urban Waters Federal Partnership “dovetails perfectly” with the Western Lake Erie Basin Partnership concept that she promoted in 2005 to encourage cooperation between various entities in the watershed, including federal, state and local governments. “We have the structure in place. Now we will have everybody at the table, working together to save Lake Erie,” she said. Kaptur said the EPA will be the leady agency in a partnership that involves more than a dozen federal agencies, including the departments of Interior, Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development.Launched in 2011 in seven communities, the Urban Waters Federal Partnership coordinates federal efforts to improve the waterways such as the Western Basin in urban communities such as Toledo. The partnership also supports President Obama’s America’s Great Outdoors Initiative aimed at making the federal government a better partner with communities that are working to provide safe, healthy and accessible outdoor spaces. Two agencies have been added to the partnership as well: the Department of Education, which will connect school groups with their local waterways and prepare students for careers in science, and the Department of Energy, which will help communities accelerate the adoption of clean energy technologies. Also participating: the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; the Economic Development Administration; the U.S. Forest Service; the Corporation for National and Community Service; the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences; and, the National Center for Environmental Health and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The heads of several federal agencies outlined the vision of the collaborative initiative.“Since we launched the Urban Waters Federal Partnership two years ago, we’ve seen firsthand what the transformation of degraded urban waterways into clean, healthy and treasured centerpieces can do for local communities – not only from an aesthetic standpoint, but also from a public health and economic standpoint,” said Acting Administrator Perciasepe. “Restored urban waters can reinvigorate communities, and I am confident the new project locations will see the same success the Partnership’s efforts have already supported across the country.”“Our waterways should be assets that communities can access and enjoy, especially in urban areas, where so many Americans live and work,” said Nancy Sutley, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality. “Through this innovative partnership, federal agencies are working together to focus their resources and expertise on revitalizing urban waterways and promoting the health and economies of surrounding communities.”“Restoring urban waterways not only helps protect our water quality, urban parks and wildlife refuges, but also provides increased recreational opportunities that benefit residents and local economies,” said Deputy Secretary of the Interior David J. Hayes. “Restoring these waterways is not only important for improving the water that we all depend on, but for spurring economic growth and creating recreational opportunities in these communities as well,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. “USDA has contributed $1.2 million in financial assistance to support these projects to date, and we will continue providing expert staff and technical assistance to help revitalize water in communities throughout the country.”"The protection and revitalization of rivers and watersheds in urban areas not only demonstrates this administration's commitment to improving public health and restoring natural resources in urban communities, but also helps beautify and increase property values in neighborhoods that are being developed or revitalized close to urban rivers," said HUD Deputy Secretary, Maurice Jones.These projects will further the goals of the partnership and address a wide range of issues such as improving water quality, restoring ecosystems and enhancing public access to urban waters. A progress report also released today details the successes and plans for future actions at each program location, as well as actions taken by each of the federal partners.Americans use urban waterways as sources of drinking water and for a variety of activities including boating, fishing and swimming. Revitalizing these urban waterways will reconnect citizens to open spaces, and have a positive economic impact on local businesses, tourism and property values, as well as spur private investment and job creation in communities.The Urban Waters Federal Partnership was launched two years ago with pilot projects in New York, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, Denver, New Orleans and Northwest Indiana. The 10 new project locations: Big River and Meramec River watersheds near St. Louis, Missouri; Delaware River Basin; Grand River (Michigan); Green-Duwamish, Washington State; Mystic River, Massachusetts; Martin Pena Canal, San Juan, Puerto Rico; Middle Blue River, Missouri; Middle Rio Grande, New Mexico; Passaic River, New Jersey; and Proctor Creek, Georgia. # # # For more information: https://www.urbanwaters.gov
05.13.2013	Dr. Hong, a business professor at the University of Toledo, was born in Korea. He was Congresswoman Kaptur’s special guest to the House chamber to hear President Park address the U.S. House and Senate on May 9.President Park, the first woman president in Korean history, earlier conducted a summit meeting with President Obama.During her speech to the joint session, President Park reiterated her demand that the government of North Korea abandon its nuclear weapons program. She said her country will never accept a nuclear-armed North Korea.Instead, she called for a new era of peace, envisioning the Korean Peninsula as a “test-bed for a future free of nuclear arms. If we can pull it off on the Korean peninsula, we can pull it off anywhere else.”President Park said that during her visit to Washington, D.C. she had once again visited the Korean War Memorial in Washington. Its words, she said, always inspire her: “Our nation honors its son and daughters, who answered the call to defend a country they never knew and a people they never met.”With that, she expressed “profound gratitude” to America’s veterans on behalf of the people of Korea. “Their blood, sweat and tears helped safeguard freedom and democracy.”She said the 60th anniversary year of the U.S.-Korea alliance underscores the commitment of both allies to “help spread the universal values of freedom, human rights and the rule of law.”
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. - - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur served as the keynote speaker at the 13th Polish–American Conference on Science and Technology being held in Washington, DC. The conference was organized by Ohio State University and the Institute of Aviation of Warsaw. The purpose of the conference was to exchange ideas and to strengthen cooperation between the United States and Poland in the areas of innovation and high technology. Mike Benzakein, PhD, Director of the Propulsion and Power Center at Ohio State University, served as the conference host. He introduced Congresswoman Kaptur as the keynote speaker to the crowd of approximately 80 Polish and American dignitaries, scientists, engineers, civic leaders, and academics. Congresswoman Kaptur, who is a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, represents a large portion of Ohio’s 440,000 Polish Americans in the Ninth Congressional District, which stretches from Toledo to Cleveland. She told personal stories of her Polish heritage, family history, and trips to the region. Kaptur also outlined her continued support for collaboration between U.S. and Polish technology, defense, and engineering fields, and commended the Polish military for its contribution and sacrifice to the NATO military missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congresswoman Kaptur said, “The United States and Poland have had a long-standing relationship and I am excited for the future of the Polish-American technology community and its impact on both countries. The innovative ideas and collaboration that these scientific leaders provide will pave the way for our future.”# # #
04.25.2013	SANDUSKY -- Congresswoman Kaptur said current tests underway here illustrate the value of NASA's Plum Brook station to America's space program.Congresswoman Kaptur viewed the fairing testing that is currently underway in Sandusky on the new Falcon Heavy, the most powerful rocket in the world. Congresswoman Kaptur toured NASA Plum Brook with Stephanie Bednarek, government affairs representative for SpaceX, Jim Free, director of the NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland and David Stringer, Director of the Plum Brook Management Office at NASA Glenn. "Clearly Plum Brook is a vital asset to our nation as we push the envelope and maintain our nation's lead in space technology," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "I am so pleased that SpaceX and other companies recognize that Plum Brook has distinctive capabilities." Congresswoman Kaptur joined NASA Glenn Research Center director Jim Free and officials from the SpaceX Corporation on a tour of Plum Brook's vacuum chamber, which is the largest in the world (122 feet tall and 100 feet in diameter). California-based Space X recently conducted the second of 12 planned cargo resupply missions to the International Space Station, hauling mission-critical equipment to the station and returning with other material. The Falcon Heavy rocket features a payload capacity almost twice that of the now-retired Space Shuttle
04.22.2013	Large Crowd at Put-in-Bay Ceremony Celebrates 17th Coin in 'America, the Beautiful Quarters Program' FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 20, 2013 CONTACT: Steve Fought (703) 587-8165 PUT-IN-BAY – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur today joined local officials and representatives of the United States Mint to unveil the Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial quarter before a crowd of more than 600 at the Niagara Event Center here on South Bass Island. “The quarter recognizes the unique role of Put-in-Bay in American history,” said Congresswoman Kaptur during the launch ceremony. “Two hundred years ago this fall, Oliver Hazard Perry sailed out from here to engage the British and turn the tide in the 'War of 1812.' Now we celebrate two centuries of peace among the United States, Canada and Britain.The newest quarter is the 17th coin released in the U.S. Mint's “America the Beautiful Quarters Program” and was released into circulation on April 1. Each year, the public will see five new quarters with reverse designs representing select national sites, with one final coin released in 2021. The Mint will issue these quarters in the order in which the honored site was first established as a national site. "Today we celebrate a national park that is small in acreage but significant in American history, a memorial to those who fought in the Battle of Lake Erie in the War of 1812, a piece of Ohio and American heritage in a setting of extraordinary natural beauty," said J. Marc Landry, acting associate director for sales and marketing at the Mint. "It is easy to see why the (memorial) was chosen to be part of the America the Beautiful Quarters Program." Also participating in the ceremony were Put-in-Bay Mayor Ruth Scarpelli and Blanca Alvarez Stransky, superintendent of the memorial. Greg Peiffer of WPIB/WPCR radio served as master of ceremonies. “This is an extraordinary event, particularly this week,” said Kaptur. “There is a tremendous sense of unity and you can feel the strength of America.” Kaptur, who represents Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District, including the Lake Erie islands, serves as ranking member on the Energy and Water subcommittee of House Appropriations. # # #
04.18.2013	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today addressed the BlueGreen Alliance’s annual summit on green jobs, focusing on the Chevy Cruze. The fuel-efficient Cruze is driving manufacturing in Ohio, at GM facilities in Parma, Toledo, and Lordstown, and steel plants in Cleveland and Lorain. Under new fuel-efficiency standards, cars like the Cruze save drivers money at the gas pump and reduce carbon emissions.“The Cruze is a great success story in Ohio, creating new jobs for our workers and reducing our dependence on foreign oil that harms our economy and our environment,” said Kaptur. “I continue to support innovative efforts that create American jobs, particularly in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable energy.”Congresswoman Kaptur is the ranking Democrat on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the energy innovation at the Department of Energy, including work on improved fuel efficiency. The forum was hosted by Lee Geisse, a Cleveland steelworker and regional manager for BlueGreen Alliance. Joining Kaptur were local labor leaders Dave Green with the United Auto Workers, James Winship with the IUE-CWA, and Dan Boone with the United Steelworkers, as well as Rob McCulloch with BlueGreen Alliance.
04.10.2013	'We Cannot Let Up--Lake Erie's in Trouble,' Says Ranking Member on Energy and Water Subcommitte WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), ranking member on the Energy and Water subcommittee of House Appropriations, said today the Obama Administration budget reflects a renewed focus on addressing phosphorus and nitrogen pollution in America’s waters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) budget identifies nutrition pollution as “one of the nation’s most widespread and challenging environmental problems.” Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed a proposed $15 million increase in funding for water pollution control grants under Section 106 of the Clean Water Act. "We can't let up," she said. "The fact is, Lake Erie's in trouble due to phosphorus and nutrient pollution. I am encouraged that the budget acknowledges the need to deal with this clear and present danger to our ecosystem. “Northern Ohio is the most sustainable place on earth because of the confluence of arable land and the largest body of fresh water in the world. But it's directly threatened by nutrient runoff that produces harmful algal blooms. “I look forward to working together with the Obama Administration and also the state of Ohio to address this serious challenge to the health of Lake Erie." The increased funding will support states, interstate agencies and tribes that commit to strengthening nutrient management efforts. Additionally, EPA will work to achieve water quality improvements in key watersheds across the country in partnership with states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In recent years, Kaptur spearheaded creation of the Western Lake Erie Basin Partnership, a pathbreaking freshwater quality and management effort thoughout the largest watershed that flows into the Great Lakes. The Partnership has taken a comprehensive approach to addressing nutrient runoff and other pollution issues and serves as a model organization for similar watershed management programs around the country. EPA’s core clean water programs and grants support states in developing and implementing nutrient pollution reduction strategies. EPA also provides technical assistance and resources to help states develop water quality criteria for nutrients. Kaptur said protecting the watershed from nutrient pollution could also reduce the need for treatment of drinking water, which is a considerable expense for communities in the Ninth District, including Cleveland, Lorain, Sandusky and Toledo. # # # FOR MORE INFORMATION: Steve Fought, stevefought@yahoo.com, 703-587-8165
04.05.2013	TOLEDO – U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today welcomed the announcement by the Federal Aviation Administration that it was delaying the closure of “contract” air traffic control towers, including Cuyahoga County Airport. “It is the correct decision, considering the implications of the closures,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It gives proponents additional time to make the case for the ‘contract’ towers.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the threat of legal action by local officials around the country, including Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald, clearly played a role in the FAA’s decision to delay the closures until June 15. “I understand the difficult decisions required by the sequester, which I continue to oppose as bad policy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “But facilities such as Cuyahoga County Airport are crucial pieces of the physical infrastructure—and that’s one of our calling cards as a region.” # # #
04.03.2013	Funds Will Be Used to Purchase New Ambulance, Cot Loading System and New Cot TOLEDO – U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced today that the Sheffield Lake Fire Department has received an award of $203,256 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The federal funds will be used to purchase a new ambulance and cot loading system as well as a new cot, according to Chief Timothy Card. “Our first responders protect our families and property on a daily basis,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “They deserve all the help and support we can give them. “Congratulations to Chief Card and Sheffield Lake for winning this competitive and highly sought-after award.” The federal share of the award will be matched by five percent from the local community. Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has been a strong supporter of the program and has voted to protect it from further budget cuts. She said the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is an important component of an overall strategy to strengthen the nation’s preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the program has provided approximately $5.25 billion to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and also training. During the current fiscal year, the program will award another $337.5 million nationally to first-responder organizations. The 12-member Sheffield Lake Fire Department staff, which functions round the clock, boasts an average response time of four minutes. It was one of the first fire departments in Lorain County to provide paramedic services. # # #
03.20.2013	LAKEWOOD, OH - - Congresswoman Kaptur announced today that the City of Lakewood, Division of Fire has been awarded the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program Award for fiscal year 2012 for the amount of $139,000. The purpose of the AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Using a competitive process, grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. “Congratulations to Lakewood for receiving this award to help protect lives and property in the community," Kaptur said.
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) has asked the Federal Aviation Administrator (FAA) to reconsider the proposed closing of the air traffic control tower at Cuyahoga County Airport in Richmond Heights. “Closing the tower would threaten current and future job s and impact the quality of the transportation infrastructure in Northeast Ohio,” Kaptur said in a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta. “In the modern world, a community’s airport serves as its front door.” Congresswoman Kaptur communicated her concerns to Administrator Huerta while Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald was making known his concerns about the proposed actions. “We’re seeing an economic comeback in Cuyahoga County, and the airport has an important role to play in that,” Kaptur said. “The airport’s location next to an 85-acre industrial park makes it central to future economic development activities in Cuyahoga County.” Kaptur told Huerta that she hopes Congress “finds the leadershiop to resolve the latest fiscal crisis, but the agency must take care to avoid actions that would weaken communities and local economies that rely on airport facilities for jobs and tax revenue.” FAA officials have indicated that a final decision on closing air traffic control towers around the country likely will be made later this month. # # #
03.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Maya Wymer, a senior at Bowsher High School in Toledo, has won the 30th Annual Congressional Arts Competition in Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District. The competition was open to high school students throughout the district. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur presented Ms. Wymer with her award during a ceremony honoring all participants. Runnersup in the competition were Masie Kuh (Bay High School in Bay Village) and Moniecia Caban (Toledo School for the Arts). A five-member jury honored Ms. Wymer for her oil pastel, “What Do You See?,” which will be exhibited in the U.S. Capitol for a year. Ms. Wymer also received two round-trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a national awards ceremony on Capitol Hill in June. “Congratulations to the winners,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We are trying to uplift the arts as an important part of who we are, so all our young artists are winners, in my opinion.” Other award winners: Payton Lake (Bay), Cassidy Howard (Maumee Valley Country Day School in Toledo), Taylor Roberts (Toledo School for the Arts), Drew Fleniken (Toledo School for the Arts), Grace Parr (Toledo School for the Arts), and Beth Rosenberger (Waite High School in Toledo). Recipients of the Bowling Green State University awards were: Erin Curtis (Central Catholic High School in Toledo), Caleb Willhight (Maumee Valley Country Day School), and Maggie Sprouse (Bowsher). University of Toledo award recipients: Aisha Buenavista (Waite) and Katelin Uhinck (Bowsher). The Lourdes University award was received by Mychael Fuller (Margaretta High School in Erie County). Other award winners: Eastman & Smith award: Rachel Marter (Bowsher). Valko and Associates award: Kloe Reddy (Bay). Rudolph Libbe Companies Inc. award: Chelsea Connolly (Bowsher). Inspiration Award: Jasmine Friend (Waite). Diana Bibler (Bowsher) received the Commercial Design Award. Her artwork has been reproduced into glassware by Libbey, Inc. Honorable Mentions in the commercial category included: Rachel Marter and Jaime Forbush (Bowsher), Sienna Saldana and Mr. Fleniken (Toledo School for the Arts), and Mr. Fuller (Margaretta). All participants have been invited to a design career workshop next month at Libbey headquarters. Serving as jurors for this year’s competition were Antonio Barrios, Lorain Arts Council president; Dan Hernandez, assistant professor of interdisciplinary art, University of Toledo; Leigh-Ann Pahapill, assistant professor of art at Bowling Green State University; Robert Schira, art instructor at Lourdes University; and Sandy Shult, graphic artist at Libbey. The students’ artwork will be displayed in the lobby of the Fifth Third Building in downtown Toledo through March 29. The competition was sponsored again by Congresswoman Kaptur in connection with The Arts Commission, the longest standing arts commission in Ohio. # # #
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The looming sequester threatens the economic recovery and Ohio’s most vulnerable citizens. Appearing on MSNBC, Congresswoman Kaptur expressed hope that Ohio Gov. John R. Kasich would help convince Speaker John Boehner to negotiate a balanced agreement and avert the damage of the sequester. Congresswoman Kaptur explained that sequestration directly threatens an important research mission at NASA Glenn Research Center in Brook Park. She said the cryogenic propellant program, one of Glenn’s two major missions, is vulnerable to the impact of the sequester. “We think we’re going to lose the cryogenic hydrogen program,” if sequestration takes effect, Congresswoman Kaptur said. Also, at least some construction projects at the Brook Park facility will be scrapped to the detriment of the local economy. Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the Appropriations defense subcommittee, said Ohio stands to lose thousands of defense-related jobs to sequestration, at least temporarily, including more than 26,000 personnel at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton and National Guard and Reserve facilities across the state. “…We are a state that is crawling its way forward to recovery. We don’t need more job loss or underinvestment…” Kaptur said. She questioned why, with “so many loopholes in the tax code,” disabled children, senior citizens and unemployed workers should “pay the price for those that are offshoring jobs and not paying their fair share of the load?” Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, appeared as a guest on “The ED Show” along with colleagues John Garamendi (CA-3) and Keith Ellison (MN-5). “Why should the unemployed in Ohio or anywhere have their unemployment benefits cut by nine to 11 percent? We’re talking about millions of Americans who are living at the edge. And our senior citizens who are going to have their nutrition programs cut. In Ohio, three quarters of a million dollars cut out of those programs. What are they going to do, give them fewer green beans?” she said. “The Republicans, at least this particular group, care more about manufacturing crises than manufacturing jobs. And we have to hold the line. We know that there’s a lot of ill will toward the president: he won the election. And what they’re trying to do, though, is to stop his program in its tracks because they’re not satisfied with what happened last November. But they shouldn’t do this to the American people.” Attachment: The Obama Administration has outlined demonstrated widespread impact to Ohio communities:· Military Readiness: Approximately 26,000 civilian Department of Defense employees could be furloughed in Ohio, reducing gross pay by approximately $161.4 million in total. Funding for Army base operations would be cut by approximately $1.9 million in Ohio and Air Force operations by approximately $3 million. · Teachers and Schools: Ohio stands to lose approximately $25.1 million for primary and secondary education, putting at risk approximately 350 teacher and aide jobs. In addition, approximately 34,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 100 fewer schools would receive funding. · Education for Children with Disabilities: Ohio also will lose approximately $22 million in funds for approximately 270 teachers, aides, and staff who help children with disabilities. · College Aid and Work-Study Jobs: Approximately 3, 320 fewer low-income students in Ohio would receive aid to help them finance the costs of college and approximately 1,450 fewer students will get work-study jobs that help them pay for college. · Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 2,500 children in Ohio, reducing access to critical early education. · Law Enforcement and Public Safety: Ohio will lose approximately $455,000 in Justice Assistance Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, and crime victim and witness initiatives. · Job Search Assistance: Ohio will lose approximately $1,786,000 in funding for job search assistance, referral and placement, meaning approximately 57,100 fewer people will get the help and skills they need to find employment. · Child Care: Up to 800 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care, which is also essential for working parents to hold down a job. · Vaccines for Children: A funding cut of approximately $344,000 would translate into approximately 5,040 vaccines for Ohio children to protect against diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B. · Violence Against Women Grants: Ohio could lose up to $245,000 in funds to provide services to victims of domestic violence, resulting in up to 900 fewer victims being served. · Nutrition for Seniors: Ohio would lose approximately $823,000 in funds for meals for seniors. · Protections for Clean Air and Clean Water: Ohio would lose approximately $6.8 million in funding to ensure clean water and air quality and prevent pesticide and hazardous waste pollution. · Public Health: Ohio would lose approximately $1.1 million to upgrade response to public health threats such as infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological disasters. In addition, Ohio will lose about $3.3 million in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in approximately 4,200 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the Ohio Department of Health will lose approximately $302,000 in approximately 7,600 fewer HIV tests.###
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) said today the Ohio Veterans Home in Sandusky could see up to $12.2 million in renovation and infrastructure work based on the 2013 priority list from the Department of Veterans Affairs. “I am pleased to announce that the 2013 priority list has more renovation projects for the Ohio Veterans Home than any facility in America,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Improvements at the Sandusky home are vital to providing the quality of service that our veterans deserve and they certainly help boost our local economy.” VA officials ranked proposed construction projects throughout the country, with a 65-35 federal-state funding share. Of 74 projects on the national list, no fewer than six are at the landmark Sandusky facility on Columbus Avenue, including $3.9 million in electrical service upgrades, $3 million in sewer pipeline upgrades, and $2.3 million for heating, ventilation and air condition improvements. “We look forward to these projects moving along expeditiously, especially considering all the budget uncertainty coming out of Washington,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Here are the projects at the Ohio Veterans Home that made the VA priority list for 2013:Electrical panel and service upgrade: $3,899,67 Sewer pipeline upgrade: $2,979,470 Heating, ventilation and air conditioning: $2,326,675 Steam lines: $1,776,125 Ventilation system: $675,025 Domestic water line upgrades: $543,888 In dollar terms, the largest projects on the national list are $21 million projects in Iowa and South Dakota. The OVH, a 427-bed nursing home, offers standard care for veterans, including special care for those with Alzheimer’s or other types of dementia. It has operated continuously since 1888 when it opened to care for veterans of the Civil War. The other veterans home in Ohio is located in Georgetown (Brown County) in the southern part of the state. # # #
02.11.2013	TOLEDO - - Today, Representative Marcy Kaptur announced her support for reinstating the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). With over 150 co-sponsors, the bill will strengthen previous VAWA measures including providing safe homes for women, extending training for healthcare and criminal justice professionals and providing an overall improvement of services for victims of domestic violence while extending resources to those of the LBGT and other communities. Last year, the Senate with bipartisan support, passed the reauthorization of VAWA, but the Republican leadership in the House did not bring the bill up for a vote. Congresswoman Kaptur stated, “The Violence Against Women Act has saved millions of women from domestic abuse who were previously neglected. It has brought the horrific realities of domestic violence to light and has provided necessary resources for women to feel protected. This is not the time to neglect those who need our help most.”For the past two decades of progress, the Violence Against Women Act has helped to keep women of domestic violence safe and free from living in fear. It enhanced criminal laws and enforcement tools to combat violence while prosecuting the perpetrators, provided healthcare funding and support for victims, and it helped to create new laws that protect victims of stalking and rape. Since VAWA was enacted, the rate of partner violence has dropped by 67 percent.“As a Congress, we have a responsibility to ensure women’s safety, especially in their own homes. VAWA currently has bipartisan support in the Senate and it is up to the Republicans in the House to bring this incredibly important measure to the floor immediately.” # # #
01.28.2013	Veterans can obtain helpful information online through the eBenefits portal, a joint project of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Department of Defense. eBenefits allows veterans and their families to learn about and monitor the benefits they have earned as a result of their service to our nation. Here are some helpful links to promotional items that can help veterans and their families find more information: eBenefits trifold brochure - a concise overview of eBenefits, explains how VA and DoD can help, and provides information on how to register. eBenefits fact sheet - a list of frequently asked questions about eBenefits with highlights about the many features eBenefits has to offer. eBenefits promotional posters - material to promote eBenefits and encourage online registering for an eBenefits Premium Account. eBenefits flyer/advertisement - more material to promote eBenefits and encourage online registering for an eBenefits Premium Account. For more information about VA benefits go to https://www.benefits.va.gov and eBenefits at www.ebenefits.va.gov.
01.25.2013	Citing public concerns about the disposal of wastewater sludge in Maumee Bay, Congresswoman Kaptur has asked for help from the regional office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Congresswoman Kaptur asked the EPA’s regional administrator to provide technical assistance regarding the application of sludge on a confined disposal facility offshore from Oregon, Ohio.“The possibility that the (combined disposal facility), known as Facility 3, could be contributing to the toxic algal bloom problem is one that merits exploration and thorough documentation,” Kaptur said in a January 17 letter to Region 5 Administrator Susan Hedman.“At issue are potential contamination problems by pathogens associated with the sludge, and the possibility that the material may be linked to phosphorous-loading in the bay and lake.”The sludge disposal issue was raised by Toledo City Councilman Michael Collins.
01.16.2013	Congresswoman Kaptur has secured the ranking member position on the Energy and Water Subcommittee of House Appropriations. Congresswoman Kaptur called the subcommittee position “a good fit” for Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District, which stretches along the Lake Erie coast from Cleveland to Toledo. Among other areas, the subcommittee has jurisdiction over:renewable energy initiatives nationally dredging activities at the nation's ports, including Lake Erie university research through the Department of Energy "I am excited about the potential to help Northern Ohio create new jobs and new opportunity," Kaptur said. "From wind energy to shale gas, the Energy and Water Subcommittee can play a positive role in achieving energy independence. I believe our region has an important role to play in that crucial mission." The subcommittee appropriates funding for:U.S. Department of Energy; Civil activities of the Department of Defense; Army Corps of Engineers (dredging at sites along Ohio's Lake Erie coastline); Department of the Interior; and, Agencies such as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Appalachian Regional Commission, and the Tennessee Valley Authority. The chairman of the Energy & Water Subcommittee is Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ). Kaptur retains her spot on the powerful Appropriations Defense Subcommittee and also landed a spot on the Financial Services subcommittee. Congresswoman Kaptur will not serve on the Budget Committee during this Congress.
01.02.2013	TOLEDO - - Congresswoman Kaptur spoke out tonight in House in favor of Rule and bipartisan bill to meet America's financial obligations, avoid the fiscal cliff, and keep the economy growing through job creation. She specifically referenced Ohio's towns like Lima, Norwalk, Medina, and Elyria, and so many more, where those who are still unemployed need extensions of their benefits, as do 2 million other Americans. She pointed out that the bill would allow for that as well as continued reimbursements to doctors to continue caring for Medicare patients across Ohio so those patients will not be turned away. Congresswoman Kaptur called the bill a victory for middle class families whose taxes would not go up as a result of the bill being she passed. She pointed out that a similar bill passed the Senate by a vote of 89-8 last evening. The House should follow suit and do what the American people have been waiting for.# # #
11.16.2012	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Congresswoman Kaptur Denounces Rocket Attacks, Affirms Israel's Right to Self-DefenseCongresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued the following statement about the rocket attacks against Israel:"I condemn the rocket attacks against innocent civilians in Israel and fully support Israel's right to self-defense, which is why I have supported the Iron Dome."The path to peace in the Middle East is difficult enough without the unprovoked and unjustified offensive actions by Hamas. I urge all parties to redouble their efforts to end the bloodshed, but the first step is for Hamas and its allies to renounce violence."
11.13.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur said this morning that Northern Ohio has a strong legacy of elevating women to positions of political leadership and lauded the fact that almost 100 women will be members of the 113th Congress, which convenes in January. Congresswoman Kaptur appeared as a guest on the acclaimed “Sound of Ideas” program on WCPN radio in Cleveland. Congresswoman Kaptur, having won re-election last week, will start her sixteenth term in Congress next year. She is the senior woman in the U.S. House of Representatives and ranks second all-time in seniority among women Members. “Women were pivotal in the victory of President Obama, especially in Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who joined Dr. Barbara Palmer, a political science professor at Baldwin Wallace University in Berea and Bay Village Mayor Deborah Sutherland on the program. Dr. Palmer, an expert on women in Congress, said 2012 was “the year of the woman” in American politics. Women increased their numbers in the U.S. Senate to 20 and in the U.S. House to 78. Dr. Palmer claimed the media has not adequately reported the significance of women’s gains in the just-concluded elections. Mayor Sutherland said women “approach things in a much different way” than men, displaying less aggressiveness and more willingness to compromise. A Republican, she said leaders in her party must re-examine the demographic changes in America, “soften their stance, and compromise.” Congresswoman Kaptur said women seem better able to avoid the hyper-partisanship that often defines Congress and Washington, D.C. “Men come up to me (on the House floor) and say, ‘You know what? Women work on what’s important.’ “ Overall, people have more faith in women … “ said Congresswoman Kaptur. Palmer and Sutherland both asserted that both major parties are falling short in recruiting female candidates.
11.11.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur thanked all veterans for “their sacrifice, their patriotism and their love of country.” She appeared on Sunday’s “Roundtable” public affairs program on Channel 13 in Toledo. She appeared on the program with representatives of the Library of Congress Veterans History Project, including Richard Baranowski, Bud Fisher and Joe Walter. Mr. Walter said local volunteers have interviewed hundreds of veterans, just “ordinary people who served in extraordinary times,” about their service in the military. During the program, moderator Jeff Smith asked Congresswoman Kaptur why she had decided to focus on veterans issues. “I’m interested, because I’ve never asked you this question, but I wonder, why have you become kind of this champion of veterans affairs?” Smith asked. Congresswoman Kaptur said it was her family background, including the memories of uncles who had seen war. She said veterans service is one reason she ran for Congress. And she recounted the story of the idea of a World War II Memorial in Washington and her long legislative campaign to make the dream of a memorial a reality. For more information about the Veterans History Project, and how you can participate, click here: https://www.loc.gov/vets
10.12.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today welcomed the announcement of two federal awards from the U.S. Forest Service for environmental improvements along the Maumee River. “The Maumee River is the largest tributary into Lake Erie, so a healthier river naturally means a healthier lake,” said Kaptur. “These federal awards move us closer to our goal—blue water and green cities.” The Forest Service will provide $250,000 for remediation of 32 acres of old industrial sites by the city and the University of Toledo. The initiative would involve planting 145 trees and installing 12 rain gardens and bioswales along the Maumee. That award will be administered by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR). The other award involves $50,000 for restoration of the tree canopy along the river. Toledo Area MetroParks, partnering with the city and ODNR, will plant 250 trees for wildlife habitat and erosion control on 37.5 acres of land that was formerly used for industrial purposes. The two awards for the local area were included in $3 million in restoration projects in six states through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “The GLRI is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We live in the most sustainable place on the planet. Nowhere on Earth does this much fresh water meet up with this much arable land. It is vital to our future. We have to take care of it so that future generations can enjoy a better quality of life.”
10.03.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur announced a $600,000 federal award to the University of Toledo for improved early detection of Asian carp and other invasive fish species.“Lake Erie supports a vibrant fishery in a diverse and unique ecosystem," said Congresswoman Kaptur."Early detection might make a crucial difference in our battle to keep Asian carp out of the lake."Congresswoman Kaptur said the university's research team, headquartered at the Lake Erie Center west of Toledo, will develop a DNA-based diagnostic test to identify invasive species, even at small population levels and in all life-stages. The award for UT came in the latest round of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, a multi-agency initiative of the Obama Administration to protect and strengthen the ecosystem.
09.27.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur met with President of Poland Bronislaw Komorowski and Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski in New York to discuss U.S.-Polish relations. Later, during ceremonies at the Polish Consulate, President Komorowski presented Congresswoman Kaptur with the Commander’s Cross for her efforts to improve relations between the two countries."America's relationship with Poland makes us both stronger," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Since America's founding, our mutual love of liberty has bound us together. Standing together, we are better able to meet the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities in a new century."The meeting and award ceremony coincided with President Komorowski’s visit to America to attend the 67th Session of the U.N. General AssemblyOfficially known as the Commander’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, the award is bestowed on individuals who have made an exceptional contribution to strengthening relations with Poland.Congresswoman Kaptur, whose heritage is Polish, has worked on Polish-American relations since coming to Congress. She recently joined the Polish Embassy in Washington in welcoming the release by the National Archives of recently-declassified information pertaining to the 1940 Katyn Massacre.
09.11.2012	Today marks the eleventh anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks against our nation. On this Patriot Day, a National Day of Service and Remembrance, we remember the lives that were lost on that tragic day and the families and friends who were left behind. We honor the police officers, firefighters and other heroes who risked their lives to save others. Let us acknowledge our commitment to their legacy with the confidence that terrorism can never change who we are as Americans. The world looks very different than it did 11 years ago. We have fought and continue to fight al Qaeda. Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the attack, is dead, along with most of al Qaeda’s leadership. We and our allies in this cause have paid dearly to keep our nation safe. Today, as we remember those who were lost on September 11, 2001, we join together to honor the five million members of the post 9-11 military who have dedicated their lives to protecting ours.
09.11.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur announced that the Kelleys Island airport has received a federal award of $302,849 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to acquire land to enhance safety. FAA officials said the project will fund removal of obstructions in the runway approach at Land Field."The airport is obviously crucial to the transportation needs at Kelleys Island and we appreciate the federal assistance," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "I look forward to working together with the local community on this important project."
09.07.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a $1.9 million National Science Foundation (NSF) award for a University of Toledo team working to develop thin-film solar cells from earth-abundant materials. The team will focus on determining which materials create a more economically sustainable and environmentally friendly process for the production of solar cells. Congresswoman Kaptur commended the award saying, “The University of Toledo has long been recognized as a national leader in the development of solar technology. I am pleased to see that work continue in new directions with the support of the National Science Foundation. This type of innovation is the key to sustainable growth of solar in the United States and will help us out-compete Chinese companies dumping their highly subsidized products on global markets.”
08.29.2012	The new Air Line Junction intermodal facility in south Toledo is a “shining example” of cooperation among various levels of government and the private sector, Congresswoman Kaptur said during ceremonies at the University of Toledo.She noted the project was catalyzed by a $6.5 million award from the Recovery Act (stimulus) from the federal government, along with approximately $3 million from the state of Ohio and $2.6 million from Norfolk Southern Corporation.“This project is a terrific investment that can shine for all the world to see,” Kaptur said, citing a 2009 study by the University’s Transportation Research Center that the facility could create up to 1,000 jobs over five years.Kaptur noted the importance of intermodal transportation in the global economy and said Toledo is well positioned with its geographic location and existing infrastructure.“Our strategy is to leverage those advantages into good-paying jobs in the transportation and distribution industries—right here in Northern Ohio,” she said.
08.28.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur announced a $5.7 million award from the Federal Aviation Administration to the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority for runway rehabilitation at Toledo Express airport. “Toledo Express continues to play a key role in regional economic development strategy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Logistics is one of our region’s key strengths, and the airport obviously plays a key role in offering a multi-modal solution to employers.”
08.23.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued a formal announcement today that the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration will formally open to the public a newly declassified compilation of Katy? documents in September. “Almost seven decades have elapsed since the Soviets committed these crimes,” Kaptur said, “and it is long overdue for all U.S. records to be made public.” In 1940, the Soviet secret police was directed by Joseph Stalin to systematically murder approximately 22,000 Polish military officers, prisoners, and intellectuals in the Katyn Forest and several other locations on the territory of the former Soviet Union. A U.S. House of Representatives Select Committee was tasked in 1951 with conducting an investigation into the Katyn atrocity and concluded that the Soviets were responsible for the Katyn mass murder. Congresswoman Kaptur stated that: “The victims, their families, and the American people deserve full access to these historic documents.” At the urging of Congresswoman Kaptur, a pro-active search and declassification was recently coordinated by the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration for all Katy? related documents held by various government agencies, and they declassified all documents they were able to locate. "We are happy that yet another batch of documents related to this horrific crime against the Polish nation will be available to the public,” Charge d'Affaires of Poland Maciej Pisarski said. The Archivist of the United States, David S. Ferriero, will lead a presentation along with the National Archives’ National Declassification Center on their findings at a public event when the Congress reconvenes on Monday September, 10th. The event will be held from 3:00 PM to 6:00 PM in the Congressional Meeting Room North in the United States Capitol Building. Documents will be posted online by the National Archives and Records Administration in coordination with this event. Attached is the official notice to the public and a joint statement issued by Congresswoman Kaptur and the Polish Embassy in Washington. ###Official NoticePublic Opening of Newly Declassified Katy? Materials Conducted with The National Archives and Records Administration of the United States September 10, 2012 3:00 PM – 6:00 PM The United States Capitol Building Congressional Meeting Room North The program includes a presentation led by the Archivist of the United States, David S. Ferriero, along with the National Declassification Center. Members of Congress, the Polish Chargé d'affaires, Katy? families, members of the Polish-American community, and researchers have been asked to participate. In the fall of 2011, the Archivist of the United States committed the National Archives and Records Administration to proactively search for and coordinate the declassification of all materials related to the World War II-era Katy? Massacre. This search and declassification effort was requested by Members of the United States Congress. The U.S. Congress reconvenes on September 10th and the National Archives and Records Administration will be presenting its findings at the U.S. Capitol and making all newly declassified materials available on-line.The event is open to the public. Joint Statement by Congresswoman Kaptur and the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Washington, DC The Honorable Marcy Kaptur and the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Washington, D.C. welcome the release of a recently declassified batch of source documents concerning the 1940 Katy? Massacre by the U.S. National Archives. The one thousand pages now available will greatly contribute to our knowledge about the crime committed in 1940 by the Soviet regime against the Polish Nation. The Katy? Forest, where the Soviet Secret Police brutally murdered more than 4,000 Polish prisoners-of-war in 1940, is one of multiple sites containing the graves of over 22,000 Polish high-ranking officers, policemen, civil servants and representatives of professions who formed the backbone of the civil society. The perpetrators of the massacre did their best to cover their tracks. When this failed, they attempted to shun responsibility for the crime. They also lied to the world about who was to blame. We appreciate the fact that Russian leaders ultimately acknowledged the truth about the perpetrators. However, we encourage the Russian Federation, Belarus and other states to fully declassify all documents about the crime and make them available to the public. We are grateful to the Polish-American community and its U.S. friends for their constant engagement and perseverance which helped keep this issue alive. In 1951-52, the U.S. Congress Select Committee on the Katy? Forest Massacre named the perpetrators and helped to educate the world about what had happed in 1940 to so many of Poland’s best and brightest. The most recent example of Poland’s cooperation with the U.S. Congress was the “Katy? Forest: Massacre, Politics, Morality” conference, hosted by the U.S. Library of Congress in 2010. Along the way, numerous actions by institutions and individuals, including Polish-Americans, have led us to today’s milestone in the search for truth. It is our sincere hope that this new batch of materials, which will be made available online, will prove invaluable to academics, scholars, journalists, experts and the general public. We are also confident that it will pave the way for the full and complete declassification and disclosure of all documents relating to the Massacre. The Polish Government and the U.S. Congress remain steadfast in their partnership and commitment to revealing all aspects related to the Katy? Massacre.
08.15.2012	Farmers in Lucas County could be eligible for drought-related disaster assistance under an emergency designation that was issued by U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. Nine Ohio counties were added to the disaster list, including Defiance, Fulton and Henry. Benefits are available for 11 contiguous counties, which include Lucas, Wood and Williams. Farm operators in the primary and contiguous counties are eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA), provided eligibility requirements are met. The assistance includes FSA emergency loans. Farmers have eight months from the date of the declaration (August 15) to apply for emergency loan assistance. FSA will consider each emergency loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses, security available, and repayment ability.
08.13.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur said the Lorain County Regional Airport has received an award of $246,465 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to rehabilitate the existing taxiway pavement that has reached the end of its useful life. “The airport is the front door to the community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “In an era of multi-modal transportation, a top quality airport is crucial to economic development.” Kaptur said improvements at the Lorain County Regional Airport since 2004 have included runway rehabilitation and overlay, pavement marking and crack sealing at Runway 7-25 (which is 5,002 feet long), overlay and extension of the tarmac, plus addition of a de-icing facility, new snow removal equipment, and improvements to the airport lighting system. # # #
08.07.2012	Average basic premiums for Medicare prescription drug plans are expected to remain constant next year, according to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The average 2013 monthly premium is expected to be $30. This is good news for seniors who depend on prescription drug coverage under Part D of Medicare. “Thanks to the new health care law, which starts to close the donut hole, millions of Americans are now saving money on their prescription drugs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “More than five million Americans saved almost $4 billion on prescription drugs since the law was enacted.” HHS said that during the first six months of the year, more than a million people with Medicare saved $629 per person on average. As a result of the Affordable Care Act, coverage for both brand name and generic drugs in the coverage gap will continue to increase over time until 2020, when the coverage gap will be fully closed. This year, people with Medicare received a 50 percent discount on covered brand name drugs and 14 percent coverage of generic drugs in the donut hole. Next year, Medicare Part D’s coverage of brand name drugs will begin to increase, meaning that people with Medicare will receive a total of 52.5 percent off the cost of brand name drugs (a 50 percent discount and an additional 2.5 percent in coverage) and coverage for 21 percent of the cost of generic drugs in the donut hole.
08.06.2012	The Affordable Care Act is "a home run" for seniors, Congresswoman Kaptur said during a telephone town hall meeting on Medicare and Social Security. The new health care law, Congresswoman Kaptur said, "actually expands the ability of seniors to obtain care," and provides a host of free preventive services such as mammograms, prostate exams, colonoscopies, and diabetes screenings. She said more than a million Ohioans have already taken advantage of the free preventive services provided by Obamacare. "The whole intention of the law is to relieve some of the worries that seniors face," Congresswoman Kaptur said. And, "you keep the insurance that you have if you like it." Congresswoman Kaptur also noted that the law requires insurance companies that fail to spend a requisite amount on coverage to pay rebates to their customers. "They have to return it to the policyholders...and they are screaming bloody murder," she said. Congresswoman Kaptur said the Obamacare plan "actually puts more money into Medicare and (expands) Medicare's solvency by an additional eight years." On Social Security, Kaptur said she supports conservative management of the Social Security trust fund accounts. "Nobody should be gambling with that money for the future."
07.18.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur issued the following statement about the bus explosion, an apparent terrorist attack, that claimed the lives of at least six Israeli tourists in Bulgaria: The horrific terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Bulgaria must be condemned in the strongest terms and those responsible for this atrocity must be brought to justice. Just yesterday, the House of Representatives expressed our ongoing commitment to the security of Israel and the Israeli people. On this tragic day, which also marks the 18th anniversary of the bombing of the Jewish center in Buenos Aires, our thoughts are with the families of the victims.
07.17.2012	The action by Senate Republicans to block consideration of the DISCLOSE Act marked a setback for accountability, Congresswoman Kaptur said. The DISCLOSE Act would require the organizations that are flooding the airwaves with political commercials to reveal their funding sources. “Senate Republicans voted for secrecy over transparency,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Killing the DISCLOSE Act might make the big banks and the oil companies happy, but once again the American people are left in the dark. Those big interests should not outweigh the American people’s voices or their votes. The American people should have the primary access and influence here, not deep-pocketed special interests. “Campaign spending is out of control. Now, to make matters even worse, there is even more secrecy. We need more transparency in the campaign finance system, not less.”
07.16.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur has renewed her call to defend Lake Erie from the Asian carp by separating the Great Lakes and Mississippi River watersheds. Her comments came after the Michigan and Ohio natural resources departments jointly announced that water samples taken last year from the Sandusky Bay in Ohio and North Maumee Bay in Michigan had tested positive for Asian carp environmental DNA. "The best defense against this dangerous invasive species is to restore the natural separation between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River watersheds. We must protect our precious Lake Erie fishery from this threat," Congresswoman Kaptur said. The Michigan and Ohio DNRs said four samples taken from Sandusky Bay tested positive for bighead carp eDNA and two samples from north Maumee Bay in Michigan tested positve for silver carp. No actual carp have been found. The samples do not indicate that the invasive species have established themselves in Lake Erie. Three individual bighead carp were found in Lake Erie in 2003 but none since then. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the Great Lakes Commission, an eight-state compact, identified last January four strategies for restoring the divide between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River watersheds to keep the Asian carp out of the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Commission report outlined three strategies for separating the two watersheds. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the Great Lakes ecosystem generates an estimated $7 billion in economic activity annually, including a thriving fishery, particularly in the shallow and warm Western Basin of Lake Erie. Congresswoman Kaptur recently organized a bipartisan letter from members of Congress to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, asking for a full accounting of an early-May incident in which an electronic barrier against the carp in Illinois failed for 13 minutes.
07.11.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur this afternoon urged House colleagues to oppose provisions in the proposed five-year farm bill that would deny Supplemental Nutrition Assistance (SNAP) to three million Americans. “The farm bill takes food off the table of up to three million Americans and asks nothing of millionaires and billionaires. What a shame,” Congresswoman Kaptur said on the floor of the House. Majority Republicans would “literally take food out of the mouths of children, seniors, the unemployed (and) the disabled,” she said, while allowing Wall Street speculators and bankers to keep all their bonuses. “Surely this Congress can do better.” She said the Republican majority “can’t seem to find their way to ask the richest to pay something to help our Republic close the gap. Millionaires and billionaires: couldn’t they forgo some of their ill-gotten treasure, especially the speculators who led this Republic to the edge?”
07.10.2012	Toledo-based ProMedica Physician Group, Inc. is one of four organizations in Ohio to have been selected by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide better care for Medicare beneficiaries at a lower cost. ProMedica Physician Group was one of 89 providers in the country that began participation in the new Medicare Shared Savings Program on July 1. “This innovative cost-saving program is based on coordinated care for our Medicare recipients,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Coordinated care can mean better service for Medicare beneficiaries while saving taxpayer dollars.” The Shared Savings Program is purely voluntary for the providers and Medicare beneficiaries will keep their own doctors if they wish. Kaptur said the program was one of the cost-saving innovations included in the 2010 Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare. Medicare officials have estimated the program could save taxpayers as much as $940 million over the next four years. ProMedica Physician Group entered into an agreement with the federal government to provide service as an Accountable Care Organization (ACO). An ACO is formed by groups of doctors and other health care providers who work together to coordinate care for people with Medicare coverage. The ACOs take responsibility for the quality of care they provide Medicare patients in return for the opportunity to share in any savings that are realized through coordinated care delivery. “We applaud every one of these doctors, hospitals, health centers and others for working together to ensure millions of people with Medicare get better, more patient-centered, coordinated care,” said Secretary Sebelius. To ensure that cost savings are achieved through improving care coordination and providing care that is appropriate, safe, and timely, an ACO must meet quality standards. For 2012, CMS has established 33 quality measures relating to care coordination and patient safety, appropriate use of preventive health services, improved care for at-risk populations, and patient and caregiver experience of care. ProMedica Physician Group is comprised of ACO group practices as well as networks of individual ACO practices. It has 250 physicians and serves Medicare beneficiaries in Ohio and Michigan . The 89 ACOs announced today bring the total number of organizations participating in Medicare shared savings initiatives to 154, including the 32 ACOs participating in the testing of the Pioneer ACO Model by CMS’s Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (Innovation Center) announced last December, and six Physician Group Practice Transition Demonstration organizations that started in January 2011. In all, as of July 1, more than 2.4 million beneficiaries are receiving care from providers participating in Medicare shared savings initiatives. More information is available at www.cms.gov/sharedsavingsprogram. To learn more about the ACOs announced today, visit:https://www.cms.gov/apps/media/fact_sheets.asp Background on the Shared Savings Program from HHS: Section 3022 of the Affordable Care Act added a new section 1899 to the Social Security Act that requires the Secretary to establish the Shared Savings Program. The program is intended to encourage physicians and other providers of Medicare-covered services and supplies (e.g., hospitals and others involved in patient care), to create a new type of health care entity, an ACO, that agrees to be held accountable for improving the health and experience of care for individuals and improving the health of populations, while reducing the rate of growth in health care spending. Studies have shown that better care often costs less, because coordinated care helps to ensure that the patient receives the right care at the right time, partly because patients avoid unnecessary duplication of services and dangerous medical errors.
07.09.2012	Congress should extend tax cuts for middle class Americans to keep the economy growing, Congresswoman Kaptur said on CNN’s “Starting Point” (July 9). “We want to protect the middle class,” she said, noting that President Obama has repeatedly advocated lightening “the burden on the middle class.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the economy is recovering in Ohio and other states, particularly with the rebound in the auto sector. She said Democrats have consistently supported extending tax cuts for the middle-income families to help keep the recovery alive. “It’s pretty clear that we want to keep the economy growing,” she said. After the interview on CNN, Congresswoman Kaptur said Republicans in the House majority should avoid holding middle-class tax cuts hostage to their desire for tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.
07.03.2012	Members of the United Steelworkers of America presented Congresswoman Kaptur with a certificate of appreciation for co-sponsoring the Bring Home Jobs Act (H.R. 5542). Sponsored by U.S. Rep. William Pascrell (D-New Jersey), the Act would cut taxes for U.S. companies that move jobs and business operations to America from another country and end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. The Act was sponsored in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Michigan) and has the support of President Obama, who has urged Congress to pass it. “I agree with my colleague, Congressman Pascrell, that we have to strengthen our manufacturing base in America,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “We have to get back to making things in America—everything from cars and trucks to appliances, bridges and railroad tracks. That’s what made us strong in the first place.” Congresswoman Kaptur met with Steelworkers representatives Chad Culbertson, Mark Lowry and Jason Miller. Congresswoman Kaptur is one of 36 co-sponsors of the Bring Jobs Home Act.
06.28.2012	The Supreme Court decision is right for America. It affirms the right of every American to have access to health insurance that is affordable. It affirms that we are moving toward a system where no one can be left out. A child with a preexisting condition is afforded equal respect to one who has no such challenge; Young people up to the age of 28 in Ohio can remain on their parents’ insurance plans, and are not left out as before; Senior citizens will pay less for prescription drugs, so far saving $164 million in Ohio; Being a woman will no longer mean you are second class in health services; And owners and employees of small business -- which constitute half the uninsured in our country -- will finally, get a chance to access affordable plans off a private insurance exchange. This decision keeps America moving forward. We are a CAN DO nation, not a nation of naysayers. Now, let us get on with the task of building our economy and the jobs that will result from certainty about health insurance access and affordability.
06.27.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur, joining local veterans on a trip to the Veterans Hiring Fair in Detroit, called the event “excellent outreach” to the veterans community. “I’m very impressed by the hiring fair,” Kaptur said. “We owe it to our veterans from Northern Ohio to learn about job opportunities in both the public and private sector and also about services such as health care.” Thousands of veterans poured into Cobo Center in downtown Detroit for three-day event organized by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Congresswoman Kaptur and the Lucas County commissioners arranged for a chartered bus to Detroit to accommodate local veterans who could not make the trip themselves. At the hiring fair, Congresswoman Kaptur also met with John Berry, director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), which is responsible for recruiting, hiring, and setting benefits policies for 1.9 million federal civilian employees. Congresswoman Kaptur and Director Berry discussed ways to reach out to the veterans community and the general public to help unemployed workers learn more about existing job opportunities.
06.25.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur announced that the Toledo Police Department will receive $1.875 million from the U.S. Department of Justice under the COPS Hiring Program. The award, she said, will fund the hiring of as many as 15 officers to increase community policing and prevent crime. The award to Toledo is one of only 12 in Ohio and part of $111 million nationally to create or preserve local law enforcement jobs. Of the 57 positions funded in Ohio, Toledo received funding for 15 officers, Akron 12, the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department eight, Canton seven, Youngstown seven, and the balance in small towns throughout the state. Under a new provision in 2012, all new officers hired under the grant must be military veterans who have at least 180 days of active service, any part of which occurred on or after September 11, 2001. The award provides 75 percent of funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years (36 months). The local match is 25 percent.
06.21.2012	The city of Toledo will receive a $200,000 award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) to train and hire workers to address environmental challenges in the community, Congresswoman Kaptur said. “Toledo is one of only 15 grantees in the country to receive an award,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It will put people to work and at the same time meet local environmental challenges.” Kaptur, who serves on the House Appropriations Committee, said USEPA awarded a total of $3 million through the Environmental Workforce Development and Job Training (EWDJT) program. The funds will be used to recruit and rain at least 75 students and place at least 60 graduates of the program in environmental jobs to clean up economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. “People want and deserve both a healthier environment and greater economic opportunity,” said Mathy Stanislaus, assistant administrator for EPA’s Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response. “This training program for environmental jobs has a proven track record. Approximately 71 percent of graduates find employment in environmental fields that serve local communities.” The EWDJT program seeks to stimulate the partnership development among local workforce investment boards, community-based organizations, governmental entities, and academic institutions. The program also helps to enhance the skills and the availability of local labor while providing communities the flexibility to design training programs that meet their local market’s demands and preferences. Since 1998, EPA has awarded more than $42 million under the EWDJT program. Approximately 10,300 people had completed training and approximately 7,300 obtained employment in the environmental field, with an average starting hourly wage of $14.12. The development of this green workforce will allow the trainees to develop skills that will make them competitive in the construction and redevelopment fields. Graduates of the program are equipped with skills and certifications in various environmental fields including lead and asbestos abatement, environmental site sampling, construction and demolition debris recycling, underground storage tank removal, ecological restoration, and green building techniques. Graduates use these skills to improve the environment and people’s health while supporting economic development in their communities. For more information: https://www.epa.gov/brownfields/pilot_grants.htm
06.19.2012	Joined by colleague Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Congresswoman Kaptur again introduced a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives recognizing and commending the inspiring services that Catholic Sisters provide our nation. Approximately 220,000 Catholic sisters have served in the United States since the country was founded. Congresswoman Kaptur said, “In selfless service, U.S. Catholic professed women have given their lives for others. Unlike most people, including their Church counterparts, they have pledged their lives to poverty, chastity, and obedience. Catholic sisters have educated millions of our citizens, founded universities, high schools, and hospitals, nursing homes, cared for the sick, imprisoned, frail, and dying. They are truly instruments of peace and reconciliation.” “I wholeheartedly support the nuns for organizing a multi-state bus trip that will highlight the work done by Catholic Sisters to meet the needs of people at the economic margins,” DeLauro said. “This trip is crucial for calling attention to the impact the devastating budget cuts contained in the Ryan budget--recently passed by the House of Representatives--will have on anti-hunger, health care and other programs that support the most vulnerable in our society, particularly during difficult economic times.” A group of Catholic sisters, led by NETWORK, a national Catholic social justice lobby, are conducting a bus tour to focus on the Ryan budget and its impact on struggling Americans.
06.18.2012	TOLEDO – Congresswoman Kaptur, a guest on the “Business Blackboard” program on WSPD-AM (Toledo), called the 180th Fighter Wing at Toledo Express Airport “the finest” fighter wing in the country and said capital improvements over the past several years helped secure the base’s future in Northwest Ohio. “They simply couldn’t walk away from the strength of the unit,” Congresswoman Kaptur said, referring to the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC), a congressionally-authorized organization that over the past quarter century has recommended the closure of approximately 350 unnecessary bases. Colonel Steven S. Nordhaus, commander of the 180th, appeared on the program on WSPD with Congresswoman Kaptur. He noted the fighter wing’s impact on the local economy (more than $100 million in payroll annually, including indirect jobs). Colonel Nordhaus also said the base has recently received the Aerospace Control Alert Unit of the Year Award and also the Reducing Energy Appreciation Program Award. Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations defense subcommittee, has been instrumental in helping the base receive federal investments in alternative energy, including a 1.56 megawatt solar field that is providing the Fighter Wing 47 percent of its electrical power, saving the taxpayers an estimated $215,000 annually and reducing the base’s dependence on coal by almost 525 tons each year. “No one understands more than the U.S. military” the importance of energy independence, said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Energy shortages are a huge vulnerability.” She noted that hauling fuel is one of the most hazardous activities in the military.
06.12.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the announcement by Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki that his department would add approximately 1,600 mental health clinicians to meet the increased demand for services. “The announcement comes at a most opportune time,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, noting that a new VA clinic is scheduled to open this fall on campus of the University of Toledo Medical Center. At the new clinic, she said, the VA will provide psychological examinations for compensation and pension as well as intensive case management. “We know the need is out there, and we must be prepared to meet it,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. In an announcement in Washington, Secretary Shinseki said, “We must ensure that all veterans seeking mental health care have access to timely, responsive and high-quality care.” In the past three years, the VA has devoted more personnel and resources to mental health services to serve the growing number of veterans seeking mental health care. Since 2007, the department has seen a 35 percent increase in the number of veterans seeking mental health services and a 41 percent increase in mental health staff.
06.07.2012	At a meeting facilitated by Congresswoman Kaptur, officials at Ohio’s seven medical schools discussed biomedical research on Wednesday, June 6 with Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Leaders at the University of Toledo’s College of Medicine and Life Sciences organized the Capitol Hill session.“Research initiatives at our medical schools in Ohio can benefit greatly from greater collaboration with the NIH,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our state ranks among the top four in the nation for biotechnology, which holds tremendous promise for job creation.”Dr. Collins, formerly at the University of Michigan, is a physician-geneticist who directed the National Human Genome Research Institute at NIH for 25 years. As NIH director, he oversees the largest source of funding for biomedical research—from basic to clinical research—in the world.Dr. Collins discussed biomedical research with members of the Ohio Council of Medical School Deans, including Dr. Jeffrey P. Gold, who serves as UT chancellor and dean of the College of Medicine and Life Sciences, and also several members of the Ohio congressional delegation.“I was pleased to bring top officials at NIH together with Dr. Gold and other leaders,” Kaptur said. “Greater collaboration can mean only greater successes in the future.” Dr. Gold noted that almost 65 percent of the $711 million that NIH has awarded to organizations in Ohio has gone to Ohio medical schools conducting biomedical research.“The expertise Dr. Collins can share with us will be key to advancing translational research across the state,” Dr. Gold said. “It’s also an opportunity to showcase the advances medical schools have made with funds NIH has invested in us.” Other medical school leaders represented Case Western Reserve, Ohio University, the University of Cincinnati, Wright State University, Ohio State University and the Northeastern Ohio Medical University.NIH research creates hundreds of thousands of high-quality jobs by funding thousands of scientists in universities and research institutions in every state across America and around the globe.
06.07.2012	June 7, 2012 Mr. Speaker: Yesterday, our nation remembered and commemorated the 68th anniversary of D-Day, the World World Two Allied invasion of Normandy France and the beginning of the liberation of Europe from the forces of tyranny. Seventy years ago today, I want to commemorate another historic World War II battle—the Battle of Midway, when the United States Navy struck back at Imperial Japan, turning the tide in the Pacific and paving the way to a great American victory at sea. Just six months earlier, Japanese planes infamously attacked Pearl Harbor, drawing the United States into that war. Yet our Navy recovered quickly and mobilized under the leadership of Admiral Ernest King from the port city of Lorain, Ohio on Lake Erie and Admiral Chester Nimitz. With the odds against them, our U.S. Navy boldly struck back at the Battle of Midway. Over four days, the Japanese lost all four of the carriers that attacked Pearl Harbor, not to mention a heavy cruiser, 248 carrier-based aircraft and more than 3,000 men. The United States lost one carrier, the Yorktown, one destroyer, and 340 men. Today we commemorate this major historic achievement of our Navy. We honor the sacrifice of those who fought for us and died for us and we express abiding gratitude for the bravery and dedication of all who fought in this battle in service to our nation and freedom’s cause. Today, the free world remembers the Battle of Midway.
06.01.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur today offered an amendment that would restore $10 million in funding for alternative energy programs in the Energy and Water appropriations measure.“Our future security depends on diversified energy research and development,” Congresswoman Kaptur said during debate on the House floor. “American security and competitiveness hinge on affordable energy for our businesses and families.”Congresswoman Kaptur offered her amendment to counter proposed drastic cuts in alternative energy programs in the Republican appropriations bill. She said the proposed measure would cut solar programs approximately in half while slashing wind energy development by almost one fourth.“My amendment would take another step towards energy independence for America and new jobs for Americans,” she said. The amendment would shift funds from administrative accounts to energy efficiency and renewable energy.“We must insure that American innovators are on a level playing field with countries across the globe, including China and Russia,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “The United States has been the global leader, but we are now losing edge. Investments in alternative and renewable are essential to securing America’s energy future.”
05.15.2012	U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) voiced strong disagreement as the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) takes effect today. “The implementation of the free trade agreement with Colombia is further proof that the promised labor right protections in NAFTA style deals are meaningless,” Rep. Kaptur stated. “For decades, we have been told that these types of deals improve working conditions in partner countries. This simply is not true.” According to the AFL-CIO, more than 2,850 trade unionists have been murdered in Colombia over the last 25 years. “In far too many of these cases, there has been no justice, and the Colombian government has been unable to stop the violence against union members. It is unacceptable that so often no one is even brought to trial for these murders,” said Kaptur. According to Colombia’s National Union School, fifty-one trade unionists were killed in 2012, thirty trade unionists were killed last year, and at least four were killed this year. “Colombia has repeatedly been labeled the most dangerous country in the world for union members,” Kaptur noted. “This is a country that is absolutely plagued by labor-related violence. The United States’ imprimatur on injustice will do nothing to better the plight of working people in Colombia or anywhere else.” Congress approved the Colombia FTA on October 12, 2011. Congresswoman Kaptur was joined by 166 other Members of the House of Representatives in opposing the agreement.
05.11.2012	In an interview on National Public Radio, Congresswoman Kaptur said the the budget debate this week on Capitol Hill is "nothing more than the latest political talking points for the Republican Party." Amember of the Budget Committee, Congresswoman Kaptur said the debate is fictional because the Democratically-controlled Senate will not adopt the Republican proposal and President Obama has promised to veto it. "So instead of focusing on economic growth and job creation, the Republicans decided to protect their rich friends and slash the programs that the most needy in our country depend upon," Kaptur said. Here is a transcript: Battle Over Next Year's Budget Begins on Capitol Hill AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: From NPR News, this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I'm Audie Cornish. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: And I'm Melissa Block. On Capitol Hill today, lawmakers began duking it out over next year's federal budget. Automatic cuts are already in place that would slash the Defense Department by hundreds of billions of dollars, cuts that many in Washington want to avoid. As NPR's Andrea Seabrook reports, a debate today in the House became a proxy for this year's big fight for the hearts and minds of voters. ANDREA SEABROOK: Here are some facts. If lawmakers do nothing before January 2nd of next year, automatic cuts worth about $100 billion will lop off huge chunks of the Pentagon's budget and force down spending on other government programs. Almost no one thinks the cuts should be allowed to take effect - not the president, not the Republican speaker of the House, not the Democratic leader. How to replace the cuts, that's where the fighting begins. Today's bill written by Republican budget guru Paul Ryan would reverse those military cuts, instead slashing the budgets for food stamps, free and reduced school lunches, Meals on Wheels and other social welfare programs. Florida Republican Allen West called it a matter of priorities. REPRESENTATIVE ALLEN WEST: Do we want to have more people dependent upon entitlements coming from the federal government or do we really want to make sure we are staying with one of our premier responsibilities, and that is to provide for the common defense? SEABROOK: The bill would also save money by requiring federal workers, including Congress, to pay more into their pension programs and by holding down spending on Medicaid, health care for the poor. Republican budget chairman Paul Ryan. REPRESENTATIVE PAUL RYAN: Let's go back to the American idea of an opportunity society with a safety net that doesn't keep people in poverty, but gets people out of poverty onto lives of self-sufficiency. SEABROOK: Now, here's how the Democrats described the bill. REPRESENTATIVE MARCY KAPTUR: Today, we are debating nothing more than the latest political talking points for the Republican Party. SEABROOK: Ohio Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur said that with a veto threat from the White House and a Democratically-controlled Senate, this bill is a work of fiction. It's not actually going anywhere. KAPTUR: So instead of focusing on economic growth and job creation, the Republicans decided to protect their rich friends and slash the programs that the most needy in our country depend upon. SEABROOK: Throughout today's debate, both sides returned to the same issues. Democrats called Republicans miserly and cold-hearted. Republicans called Democrats wasteful and pandering. It was as if a presidential campaign parade was marching across the House floor. But here's a reality check. Those drastic military cuts all those lawmakers are desperately trying to avoid, they themselves are the ones who put them into law. They did it last summer after months of fighting over deficits and spending priorities. The cuts, or budget sequestration, as it's called, were supposed to be drastic and scary in hopes of goading the super committee, remember the supercommittee, into finding other bipartisan cuts. But the supercommittee failed and, says Vermont Democrat Peter Welch, all budget debates will fail until both parties change their rhetoric. REPRESENTATIVE WELCH: What we face is a practical problem, not an ideological battle. And in the House, every issue becomes an ideological issue that is fought to the death rather than a practical problem where we look for progress. SEABROOK: It's a budget, says Welch, not theology. Today's debate was almost a meta-fight, Congress trying to undo the knots it tied last summer. The result, in this election year, is likely to be an even more snarled tangle. Andrea Seabrook, NPR News, the Capitol. https://www.npr.org/2012/05/10/152445460/battle-over-next-years-budget-begins-on-capitol-hill
05.02.2012	CLEVELAND, May 3 -- U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined company officials and community leaders to christen a newly-built tugboat, "Handy Three," at the Great Lakes Shipyards. Kaptur said construction of the tugboat, made possible under the Shipyards Act, created approximately 100 jobs. "We have to play to our strengths in creating new jobs," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "One of our historical assets along the North Coast has been shipbuilding. In a globalized economy, the demand of maritime transportation will grow dramatically, and we can take advantage of that opportunity right here if we work together." The vessel that Kaptur christened today is in a class of tugboats that were designed by Jensen Maritime Consultants in Seattle, Washington.
04.26.2012	Ryan budget hits vulnerable Americans hardest By Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) - 03/26/12 04:35 PM ET It has been said time and time again that a budget is a moral document: a statement of our values and priorities as a nation. Last week the House Budget Committee passed a FY 2013 budget resolution that shamelessly cut taxes for oil companies and the wealthiest Americans, will destroy several million American jobs, and ends the Medicare guarantee for many current and all future beneficiaries. I will refrain from making judgments on the morality of those favoring this Ryan Republican Budget plan and instead say that this budget is a highly irresponsible, unjust fiscal plan for our nation. It benefits the few at the expense of the many. Of the nondefense budget cuts presented in the Republican Budget, 62 percent is cut from programs for lower-income Americans, according to the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities. The cuts come from Medicaid, SNAP, WIC, school aid, Pell Grants, Head Start, and job training programs, among other things. These programs aid the hardest hit by the economic crisis, as well as the weakest and most vulnerable in society. This Republican Budget would have more than 9 million college students lose Pell Grant funding. It would cut 200,000 children from Head Start. It would have 19 million seniors, children, and the poor have their health care benefits eroded or cut altogether. And it would end food support benefits for up to 10 million people at a time when food banks are overloaded with people seeking help. The Congressional Budget Office analysis indicates that this Republican Budget plan would shift costs to seniors on Medicare who would get stuck paying higher premiums and co-pays with the private insurance options offered under this plan in place of traditional Medicare. The effect of these policies would be, as Newt Gingrich explained during a similar debate in the 1990s, to force Medicare to "wither on the vine." These cuts are bad enough on their own. But they exist alongside tax cuts for the rich. How can we allow the lowest-income Americans, those struggling the most, to take the brunt of these cuts, while the rich get more tax breaks? The average tax cut for millionaires under this Republican Budget plan is at least $150,000. There are even more tax breaks buried in this Republican Budget on top of the extension of the Bush Tax Cuts for the wealthy. Companies that ship American jobs overseas and oil companies also see their taxes cut by this Ryan Republican Budget. For me, the choice is clear. This is an unfair budget to those Americans most in need. I look forward to supporting the Democratic alternative budget – that is for the many, not just the wealthy few – when this measure is debated on the House floor. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) serves on the Committee on the Budget, as well as the Committee on Appropriations.
03.21.2012	Republicans Vote Down Initiative to Create Jobs for Returning Veterans Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur offered an amendment today in the House Budget Committee's mark up of the Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Resolution. Kaptur's amendment would establish a Veterans Job Corps that would employ at least 20,000 veterans over 5 years in projects to preserve and restore America's national parks, state parks, and other public lands. While the Veterans Job Corps amendment drew unanimous support from House Democrats, it was voted down 17-20 in the Republican controlled House Budget Committee this afternoon. "I can only hope that the lack of sensitivity for the plight of unemployed returning veterans will change. These men and women answered the call to service for their country and now they are getting nothing but a dial tone from House Republicans," Kaptur said. "President Franklin Delano Roosevelt set up the original CCC in very short order. In three months, there were 1,463 working camps and 317,000 employees," added Kaptur. The Veterans Job Corps amendment was based on the bill Kaptur introduced last year, the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps Act (H.R. 494), as a means of providing gainful employment to unemployed and underemployed citizens through public works projects. Veterans, particularly those recently returned from deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan have been disproportionately affected by the depressed economy. A year ago, more than 1 million veterans were unemployed. In February, that number had declined to 770,000. About 150,000 of these are veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President recently embraced the idea of a Veterans Job Corps after Congresswoman Kaptur personally proposed the idea to him during a visit he made to Ohio last year. The concept was also a centerpiece of his State of the Union address last month.
03.21.2012	Republicans Vote Down Initiative to Create Jobs for Returning Veterans Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur offered an amendment today in the House Budget Committee's mark up of the Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Resolution. Kaptur's amendment would establish a Veterans Job Corps that would employ at least 20,000 veterans over 5 years in projects to preserve and restore America's national parks, state parks, and other public lands. While the Veterans Job Corps amendment drew unanimous support from House Democrats, it was voted down 17-20 in the Republican controlled House Budget Committee this afternoon. "I can only hope that the lack of sensitivity for the plight of unemployed returning veterans will change. These men and women answered the call to service for their country and now they are getting nothing but a dial tone from House Republicans," Kaptur said. "President Franklin Delano Roosevelt set up the original CCC in very short order. In three months, there were 1,463 working camps and 317,000 employees," added Kaptur. The Veterans Job Corps amendment was based on the bill Kaptur introduced last year, the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps Act (H.R. 494), as a means of providing gainful employment to unemployed and underemployed citizens through public works projects. Veterans, particularly those recently returned from deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan have been disproportionately affected by the depressed economy. A year ago, more than 1 million veterans were unemployed. In February, that number had declined to 770,000. About 150,000 of these are veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President recently embraced the idea of a Veterans Job Corps after Congresswoman Kaptur personally proposed the idea to him during a visit he made to Ohio last year. The concept was also a centerpiece of his State of the Union address last month.
02.23.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed the release today by the Obama Administration of the 2012 Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework. The report outlines specific plans to protect the Great Lakes from invasive Asian carp, including new technologies to improve Asian carp capture rates, prioritizing eDNA sampling for Asian carp, and improving and replacing barriers in the Chicago Area Waterway System. "I am glad President Obama has made a priority of protecting our Great Lakes from an Asian carp invasion, which would devastate our $7 billion fishing industry," said Kaptur, a cosponsor of the Stop Asian Carp Act. Congresswoman Kaptur recently held a well-attended public forum on Asian Carp. Community stakeholders heard from White House Asian Carp Director John Goss, and representatives from the EPA, US Fish and Wildlife Service, Army Corps of Engineers, and U.S. Geological Survey. Kaptur noted the importance of the meeting, explaining, "Federal agencies need to hear from the people who would be affected by an invasion of Asian carp. That meeting allowed input from our region to be included in the new plan released today." The Ninth District represented by Congresswoman Kaptur covers a large portion of Lake Erie, which is the Great Lakes' largest fishery, and would suffer the worst effects if Asian carp were to pass through the Chicago canals and into Lake Erie. "We must protect our lake. That is why I have worked diligently with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to provide funding for critical programs like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, and to accelerate the study to create a full physical barrier to prevent an invasion of Asian carp," said Kaptur. The full 2012 Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework can be found here. Photo courtesy of the US Army Corps of Engineers
02.15.2012	Today Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur urged President Barack Obama to conduct negotiations with the new Libyan government and the Israeli government to provide compensation to the victims of the Munich massacre at the Olympic Games in 1972. Ohioan David Berger was one of the 11 members of the Israeli Olympic team that were killed by the terrorist group, the Black September Organization. The National Park Service's David Berger National Memorial is located in Beachwood, Ohio, and honors David Berger and all of the victims of the tragedy in Munich. Click here to see a copy of the letter.
02.10.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced the extension restoration of over $2 million in federal funding for the City of Cleveland to use for the removal of hazardous lead from area homes contingent on the City meeting certain obligations to the Department of Housing and Urban Development. "The restoration of eligibility for this critical federal funding is great news for the City of Cleveland and, more important, for the safety and well being of Cleveland area families," Congresswoman Kaptur said. On January 11, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that it would terminate $2 million for Cleveland over concerns related to the program's management by the Department of Public Health. That same day, Kaptur organized a call to speak personally with the Assistant Secretary of State for Intergovernmental Affairs and the Director of HUD's Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control. A representative from the office of U.S. Rep. Marcia Fudge and the Cleveland Mayor's office also participated in the call at Kaptur's invitation. "As soon as the story broke, I picked up the phone to talk with HUD officials in Washington to see what could be done to restore these funds to Cleveland," said Kaptur, a senior Member of HUD's funding committee in the House. Kaptur raised the matter directly with HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan at President Obama's State of the Union speech stressing the need to rectify the loss of funds to the city. Kaptur and her office stayed in daily contact with HUD officials working toward a successful resolution. "The City of Cleveland's program had clearly run into some problems, but we worked with the Mayor's office to assure HUD officials that Cleveland had taken immediate steps to reform the program," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "One in five children in Cleveland has dangerously high levels of lead, an often debilitating condition. Getting the paperwork right is the City's responsibility. But we must do everything we can to insure that the errors of bureaucracy do not interfere with insuring the health of children," said Kaptur. "I appreciate Secretary Donovan and the Obama Administration's effort to help us make this right." In a letter issued today, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development formally overturned the decision, and informed the City of Cleveland that the $2 million in funding for the City's lead cleanup program will be restored if benchmarks are met by February 28, 2012. Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, fought vigorously against the reduction in nationwide HUD funding in the lead poisoning programs. Kaptur, a housing expert having served in the White House's Urban Affairs Office and on the U.S. House's Housing Committees since the 1980s, is currently a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. Click on the image below to read the entire letter.
02.09.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur met with senior leadership of the Ohio National Guard and members of the Ohio Congressional Delegation at a briefing on Ohio's response to a possible Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC). Kaptur discussed ways in which the National Guard and the Ohio Delegation and can work together to protect jobs and military instillations in the region. "The world-class installations in Northern Ohio are some of the first to respond to threats against our nation," said Kaptur. "We must be vigilant and proactive in confronting this challenge." "There are 1200 jobs at risk at the Toledo Air National Guard Base should the U.S. Air Force decide to recommend changes at the 180th Fighter Wing. Excellence at that base and in its deployments will make that indisputable case that the 180th is a star in the Pentagon's constellation," the congresswoman added. "During the last BRAC process in 2005, I successfully defended the 180th Fighter Wing and maintained the jobs and critical defense capabilities that unit and its personnel provide to our nation. We must renew those efforts now," Kaptur said. BRAC is an independent commission that is required to review and analyze DOD's recommendations for military installation closure or realignment. BRAC submits a report to the President with findings and conclusions that accept, reject, and or modify DOD's recommendations. The President reviews BRAC's Commission report, and upon acceptance of the recommendations, submits it to Congress. Congress then has the opportunity to disapprove of the recommendations through the enactment of a joint resolution. If the President fails to submit the recommendations to Congress within the time frame required under the Base Closure Act, the BRAC process is terminated. "Our area has already been hard hit by high unemployment rates, and preserving these jobs—and military capability—is essential for our national security," Kaptur said.
02.08.2012	Congresswoman Kaptur met with researchers from the Cleveland Clinic to discuss the Armed Forces Institute of Regenerative Medicine (AFIRM) program that was created by the Department of Defense. The institute works on developing clinical treatments for soldiers and veterans suffering from traumatic injuries. It also serves as a training facility to develop experts in treating trauma through regenerative medicine. Recent achievements for the AFIRM program include: • Significant progress in the validation of a new bone regeneration technology by ISR and Carnegie Mellon. • Development of a living human ear replacement has advanced from rodents to sheep. • A scar-less wound healing dressing clinical trial that has been approved for the second set of trials. • 11 clinical trials so far involving more than 100 patients. • 60 new products in the pipeline. The following representatives met with Congresswoman Kaptur: • Linda M. Graham, M.D., Staff Vascular Surgeon, Department of Surgery Staff, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Cleveland Clinic • Dr. Paul Murray, Ph.D., Researcher, Cleveland Clinic Lerner Research Institute, Government Relations Department Liaison to AFIRM • Maureen Peckman, the Chief Emerging Business Officer of Cleveland Clinic Nevada • Maria Siemionow, M.D., Ph.D., Director of Plastic Surgery Research, Head of Microsurgery Training, Cleveland Clinic
02.03.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, met with Eugenia Tymoshenko, the daughter of the former prime minister of Ukraine after she testified at a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the politically motivated persecution of her mother, Yulia Tymoshenko. Kaptur and Eugenia Tymoshenko spoke at length about the former prime minister's detention, appeal, and concerns over her health and safety. In response to the former prime minister's imprisonment, Kaptur introduced a resolution in October 2011, H.Res. 435, condemning Yulia Tymoshenko's politically charged prosecution by the new Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych's government. Yulia Tymoshenko had lost the presidential election to Yanukovych just a few months before she was imprisoned. "The international community sees this trial against former Prime Minister Tymoshenko as a selective prosecution, brought on for political reasons," said Kaptur. In November 2011, reports emerged that Yulia Tymoshenko was in very poor health in jail. "The physical well being of the former prime minister has become a serious concern," Kaptur said. "Several Western Ambassadors have been denied access to her, and she is even being denied access to a personal physician. She must be guaranteed access to adequate medical care." In addition to the resolution, Kaptur has condemned the persecution of Tymoshenko on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and has joined members of the Ukrainian Congress of America, which represents over 1 million Americans of Ukrainian descent, in calling for Congressional hearings on Tymoshenko's treatment. "The Ukrainian government's recent actions are a setback for democracy and human rights. I have worked for decades to strengthen ties between the U.S. and Ukraine, and this could put a strain on the relationship between Ukraine, the U.S. and the international community," said Kaptur. Click on the image below to watch the video.
02.03.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur recognized Catholic Schools Week this week, celebrated from January 29 through February 4, 2012. "Catholic schools are a significant part of our community and our educational system. As an alumna of St. Ursula Academy, Toledo's oldest all-girls Catholic school, I received an exemplary education that instilled in me the values of service and community. It is important to recognize the role these schools play in educating our nation," said Kaptur. Kaptur is a cosponsor of H.Res. 61, a resolution that formally recognizes the contributions of Catholic schools. "As we try to improve graduation rates around the country and send more of our high school graduates off to college, we can look to Catholic schools as an example: they have a 99 percent graduation rate and 85 percent of their student go on to attend four year colleges. Their dedication to academic excellence is an asset to our country," Kaptur said.
02.03.2012	This week, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur observed the third anniversary of the enactment of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first bill signed into law by President Obama championing the principle of equal pay for women. "As the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives, I voted for this bill that was signed into law three years ago because it reaffirmed a core American principle: you should get equal pay for equal work. "Women today still only earn 77 cents for every dollar a man earns, on average. This is a glaring inequality in this country, where all Americans should be treated equally," said Kaptur. Data from the U.S. Census Bureau in 2010 showed that women working full-time, year-round were paid less than their male counterparts in every state across our nation including Ohio, where the median earnings were $35,284 for women and $45,859 for men. The law is named after Lilly Ledbetter who after working for 19 years of working at an Alabama Goodyear tire factory, discovered that she was making 20 percent less than her male coworkers, even though many had less education and less years on the job. While a jury found Goodyear to be guilty of pay discrimination, the Supreme Court dismissed her case because there is a six-month statute of limitations for filing a discriminatory lawsuit that resets with each new discriminatory paycheck. Essentially, Ledbetter needed to have filed a complaint within six months after her first discriminatory paycheck. However, Ledbetter did not discover the pay disparity until almost two decades after working at Goodyear. After the Supreme Court ruling in the Ledbetter case, the Democratic Congress and the Obama Administration approved the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in 2009 so that women and other workers can now have their day in court without being held to these statutes of limitations. "The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act strengthens America's families because, when women are underpaid for equal work, entire families suffer from lost wages—this also hampers our country's economic growth. I am committed to ensuring that all men, women, and children in America's families get a fair shake," Kaptur said.
02.03.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur applauded the Obama Administration’s new Veterans Job Corps initiative, a comprehensive jobs program for our nation’s unemployed veterans modeled after President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Civilian Conservation Corps and other proven programs. “This is a huge victory for veterans across the country who continue to struggle to find work in this tough economy,” said Kaptur. “This effort will allow veterans to continue their record of service to our nation through public works projects and employment as first responders and law enforcement officers,” said Kaptur. Congresswoman Kaptur introduced a bill last year, the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps Act (H.R. 494), as a means of providing gainful employment to unemployed and underemployed citizens through public works projects. She personally proposed the idea to President Obama when he visited Ohio last year and is pleased to see it take shape today. “FDR with help from General George Marshall set up the original CCC in very short order. In three months, there were 1,463 working camps and 317,000 employees. I can only hope we get this program in place and operational with the same urgency the Roosevelt Administration did in 1933, so we can meet the needs of our nation’s veterans who have sacrificed so much for us,” Kaptur said. According to numbers released this morning by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, there are approximately 815,000 unemployed American veterans. Veterans who have served since September 11, 2001 have the highest unemployment rate. Progress has been made for these new veterans with the unemployment rate falling from 15.2 percent in January 2011 to 9.1 percent in January 2012, but the rate remains persistently high as more veterans are returning home from overseas deployments. Also troubling is the high rate of unemployment for female, post-9/11 veterans; the January 2011 rate was 13.5 percent, but has jumped to 17.3 percent a year later. Source: https://bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t05.htm
02.02.2012	February is a month dedicated to celebrating the important impact of African Americans to our nation's history. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur issued remarks in recognition of National African American History Month. "This is a month to reflect on some of the greatest examples of our nation's founding principles – freedom and equality. "It is a time to recognize the courageous leaders who fought to end slavery and to extend civil rights to all Americans. We also remember the quiet heroes who work to protect our great progress in establishing a more perfect Union. "President Obama, who has greatly advanced the vision of equality as the first African American President, provided wonderful insight in his official proclamation that 'During National African American History Month, we pay tribute to the contributions of past generations and reaffirm our commitment to keeping the American dream alive for the next generation.'" "I encourage all Ohioans to reflect and find inspiration in the commemoration of National African American History Month."
01.31.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today condemned the ongoing atrocities in Syria and called for President Bashar el-Assad to step down. "President Assad has killed thousands of innocent people, including hundreds of children, in a desperate attempt to retain power. It is time for him to step aside," Kaptur said. "President Assad stands on the wrong side of history. I agree with Secretary of State Clinton when she said to the Syria people: 'We stand with you.' " "There is a wave of change sweeping across the Middle East that holds the possibility of more open societies. America should stand with those who at grave risk to themselves are standing up to repression and tyranny." Kaptur said the ongoing repression by the Assad dictatorship threatens regional stability, including the state of Lebanon. She said Assad has lied repeatedly and no longer enjoys sufficient support to remain in power. The Arab League, she noted, withdrew its observers and abandoned its peace mission due to ongoing violence by the Assad government. Kaptur said she supports President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton as they seek stronger sanctions against the Assad regime in order to facilitate a transition to democracy. Assad, she said, is clinging to support from Russia and China in order to maintain his increasingly tenuous grip on power. Read Secretary Clinton's statement below. ________________________________________ Press Statement Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State Washington, DC January 30, 2012 The United States condemns in the strongest possible terms the escalation of the Syrian regime's violent and brutal attacks on its own people. In the past few days we have seen intensified Syrian security operations all around the country which have killed hundreds of civilians. The government has shelled civilian areas with mortars and tank fire and brought down whole buildings on top of their occupants. The violence has escalated to the point that the Arab League has had to suspend its monitoring mission. The regime has failed to meet its commitments to the Arab League to halt its acts of violence, withdraw its military forces from residential areas, allow journalists and monitors to operate freely and release prisoners arrested because of the current unrest. The Security Council must act and make clear to the Syrian regime that the world community views its actions as a threat to peace and security. The violence must end, so that a new period of democratic transition can begin. Tomorrow, I will attend a United Nations Security Council meeting on Syria where the international community should send a clear message of support to the Syrian people: we stand with you. The Arab League is backing a resolution that calls on the international community to support its ongoing efforts, because the status quo is unsustainable. The longer the Assad regime continues its attacks on the Syrian people and stands in the way of a peaceful transition, the greater the concern that instability will escalate and spill over throughout the region.
01.31.2012	The Great Lakes Commission and the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Cities Initiative released the findings of their study on three options for creating a permanent physical barrier within the Chicago Area Waterway System, a man-made connection between Lake Michigan from the Chicago River, a tributary of the Mississippi River. The report preempts another study by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which Congress authorized in 2007, but has experienced setbacks and is not due until 2015. The Chicago site has come under increasing scrutiny as the most likely route for invasive Asian carp to enter the Great Lakes, threatening a $7 billion fishing industry, and one of the world's most treasured ecosystems. Advocates for the Great Lakes, including Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur of Northern Ohio have repeatedly called for such a barrier. "We have seen the destruction these carp have wrought on the Mississippi River system," said Kaptur. "We must do everything we can to prevent them from spreading into the Great Lakes." "I led the effort in the House to authorize a permanent physical separation of the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River, complete construction of the Asian Carp Dispersal Barrier in Chicago and fund an accelerated study of physical separation. The Great Lakes Commission's findings underscore the urgency for that action," Kaptur said. Currently, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers operates an electrified barrier in the waterway, which is meant to repel or kill any Asian carp on their way to Lake Michigan. However, the long-term viability of the barrier has been called into question. Congresswoman Kaptur explained, "Evidence suggests that smaller Asian carp may not be affected by the barrier. Periodic shutdowns for maintenance and repairs also provide the opportunity for invaders to make it into the Great Lakes. And we are spending millions every year to operate the electric barrier. This is not a long-term solution. Permanent, physical separation of these waters is the only solution." Several Members of Congress, including Congresswoman Kaptur, are now urging the Army Corps of Engineers to shorten its timeframe for completing its study and beginning work on the permanent barrier in response to the findings released today. Congresswoman Kaptur is also hosting an upcoming public forum on Asian carp at noon on February 6, 2012 at the BGSU-Firelands Campus in Huron, Ohio. Representatives from the Great Lakes Commission will be on hand to discuss their findings and answer questions. Click here to learn about the meeting.
01.30.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur will host a public forum on Asian carp with the White House Council on Environmental Quality Asian Carp Director John Goss at noon on February 6, 2012 at the BGSU-Firelands Campus in Huron, OH. Asian carp is an invasive species that could pose a significant threat to the Great Lakes fisheries, which are estimated to generate up to $7 billion annually for our region. The Western Basin of Lake Erie is especially vulnerable to invasive species because it is shallow, warm, and home to spawning grounds. "We have seen the destruction these carp have wrought on the Mississippi River system," said Kaptur. "We must do everything we can to prevent them from spreading into the Great Lakes." Goss is also the chair of the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee (ACRCC), whose members will also be on hand to address public concerns about Asian carp. "I have asked members of the ACRCC to update the public on the steps they are taking to safeguard our most important natural resource, the Great Lakes," Kaptur said. The event will also provide the public with an opportunity to offer feedback on ACRCC efforts. "As a member of both the House Appropriations and Budget Committees, I have led efforts to sustain critical funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) and the Great Lakes Asian Carp Control program," said Kaptur. "The Appropriations Committee has provided the region with unprecedented resources for the protection of the Great Lakes." "I also led the effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to authorize a permanent physical separation of the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River, complete construction of the Asian Carp Dispersal Barrier in Chicago, and fund an accelerated study of physical separation," Kaptur said. Monday, February 6, 2012 WHO: Rep. Marcy Kaptur, the White House Council on Environmental Quality Asian Carp Director John Goss, and members of the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee WHAT: Public forum on Asian carp WHEN: Noon, Monday, February 6, 2012 (Media availability from 11:30 a.m. to Noon) WHERE: BGSU-Firelands Campus, Cedar Point Center, One University Drive, Huron, OH 44839
01.30.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, who has introduced legislation to establish an investigative commission to explore decision making within the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), applauded today's National Public Radio exposé highlighting the abuses of Freddie Mac. According to reports issued today, Freddie Mac placed multibillion-dollar bets that would pay out only if homeowners stayed trapped in expensive mortgages with interest rates well above current rates. In 2008, both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were bailed out by U.S. taxpayers and placed in federal conservatorship under the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). "It is completely unacceptable for Freddie Mac to be positioning itself to benefit at the expense of American homeowners—and taxpayers were left with the bill," Rep. Kaptur said. "It is well past time for the United States Congress to fully investigate the inner dealings between Freddie, Fannie, and Wall Street. FHFA clearly sat idly on the sidelines while American homeowners were used as financial pawns." Kaptur, who has introduced H.R. 2093, the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Investigative Commission Act, as well as legislation for criminal investigations related to the financial crisis, sees change on the horizon. "The abuses of Wall Street will continue to come to light, but Congress must do its part. This must be fully investigated and there must be real accountability," Kaptur said.
01.30.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today expressed her support for a proposed partnership between the NASA Glenn Research Center and the European Space Agency. Click on the image below to enlarge the letter.
01.25.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced three federal fire assistance awards: $308,750 to the Florence Township Fire Department for acquisition of a vehicle and two awards to the Carlisle Township Fire Department totaling $350,493 for vehicle acquisition, operations and safety. Funding was made available through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Eligible uses for the grant money are training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. "Congratulations to the Carlisle Township and the Florence Township Fire Departments for winning these federal awards," said Kaptur. "These communities and their neighbors depend on the departments to protect lives and property every day of the year." The AFG program funds fire departments and emergency medical service operations throughout the country to enhance response capabilities and support first responder activities. The program has provided 7 rounds of grants to first-responder organizations since 2001. Last year, during the budget battles in the U.S. House of Representatives, Kaptur joined a bipartisan effort to restore funding to the AFG grant program and to support local firefighters and emergency personnel. She voted in favor of an amendment by Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) to restore $510 million for fire grants, which was adopted.
01.25.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today praised the Navy SEALS who rescued an American citizen who had been kidnapped and held hostage for three months by pirates in Somalia. "Our nation owes a debt of gratitude to these brave warriors who once again have served their country with remarkable courage and skill," said Congresswoman Kaptur. According to news reports, the SEALS who rescued Jessica Buchanan in Somalia are the same unit who carried out the successful mission against terrorist leader Osama bin Laden. The unit is the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, also known as SEAL Team 6. "I commend President Obama for authorizing the mission and join him in praising the troops who put their lives on the line and the professionals who supported them," said Kaptur. "A grateful nation celebrates another successful mission." Kaptur, a member of the Defense Subcommittee of House Appropriations, said the SEAL unit is "an inspiration to every American."
01.24.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statement following President Obama's State of the Union Address: "As I listened to the president share his vision of a strong America, where our workers innovate and manufacture and compete, I thought about the North Coast and Northern Ohio--because that's what we do. "When the president talked about "Made in America," I saw the faces of steel workers and autoworkers and solar factory workers--because that's who we are. "And as I listened to the president talk about the values of our citizens, I thought about the resilient families in Northern Ohio who faced up to tough challenges without flinching and without running away. "Working together, we will redeem the American Dream and then pass it on to the next generation." The Congresswoman applauded President Obama's call for a special crimes unit to investigate Wall Street wrongdoing in the 2008 financial meltdown. A leading opponent of Wall Street bailouts, Kaptur welcomed the president's proposals to create a special crimes unit in the Department of Justice to prosecute financial crimes that brought about a collapse of Wall Street and the nation's devastating recession. Kaptur is the author of a H.R. 1350, the Financial Crisis Criminal Investigation Act, which would authorize the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to hire 1,000 FBI agents as well as additional forensic experts to investigate corporate, securities, and mortgage fraud, and associated violations of law relating to the U.S. financial markets. The bill also authorizes the hiring also of additional employees by the Attorney General and by the Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Division of Enforcement to conduct related investigations and prosecutions. "I am thrilled that the President spoke about the investigation and prosecution of those who brought on the devastating collapse of the financial housing and financial markets in this country," said Kaptur. "The American people have paid a steep price for the Wall Street speculation that took America to its economic brink. A commitment to bringing those whose carelessness dealt a blow to our collective worth as a nation, is a first step to restoring the confidence of the American people in their government," Kaptur commented. "That's why I introduced a bill to require 1,000 prosecutors. I was very happy to hear the president's announcement of a Financial Crimes strike force in the Justice Department. That will be very helpful in Cleveland, Lorain, Sandusky and Toledo, because a lot of people lost their homes when they shouldn't have," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Click on the graphic below to watch the video.
01.24.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur has invited Julie Dunn, widow of fallen Sandusky Police Officer Andrew Dunn, to be her guest at the State of the Union speech on Tuesday night in the Capitol. "Julie was my first and only choice and I am so pleased that she will be able to attend," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Her presence in the gallery of the House of Representatives for the president's speech will certainly add a grace note to the evening." Julie's husband, Andrew Dunn, was killed in the line of duty on March 19, 2011 at the age of 30. Julie survives along with two young sons, Caleb and Connor. "We will never forget Andy's courageous service and we must always remember to keep his family in our thoughts and prayers and deeds," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Julie will join other invited guests in the House gallery. Each Member of Congress is permitted to invite one guest to hear the president deliver his report on the State of the Union, which is required by the Constitution of the United States. Kaptur spokesman Steve Katich noted that no taxpayer dollars will be used for Ms. Dunn's visit to our nation's capital.
01.23.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and over a dozen other members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama today urging the White House to take strong action to end the foreclosure, abandonment, and vacancy crises in our region. This letter is the latest in a series of actions Congresswoman Kaptur has taken to ramp up the federal government's response to Northern Ohio's real estate crisis. Last month, the Congresswoman organized a meeting between the U.S. Treasury and the Ohio's Western Reserve Land Conservancy to encourage additional federal assistance for Ohio's struggling homeowners. Don Graves, the executive director of President Obama's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness—and a Cleveland area native—attended this meeting. Northern Ohio has been particularly hard hit by the foreclosure crisis with tens of thousands of homes now sitting empty and quickly falling into decay. There are an estimated 13,000 vacant structures in Cleveland alone, with as many as 30,000 in all of Cuyahoga County. "Abandoned structures can have a devastating impact on local neighborhoods," said Kaptur. Vacant properties can become havens for criminal activities and can dramatically bring down the value of surrounding homes. In parts of Cuyahoga County, homes are now selling for as little as 8% of their appraised value. "We need to fix up abandoned properties as quickly as possible, so families can turn them back into homes again." "Unfortunately, some of these properties have deteriorated beyond repair," said Kaptur. The city of Toledo has identified a list of approximately 700 properties that need to be demolished. In addition, there are an estimated 70,000 homes across Ohio which also must be demolished. "It is important to find appropriate uses for these sites as quickly as possible," said Kaptur. "We must do more to help our region get back on its feet and move beyond this crisis that Wall Street created." Click on the image below to read the letter.
01.20.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur announced two awards for the University of Toledo University Transportation Center (UTC) from the U.S. Department of Transportation as part of a larger grant of $77 million awarded to several consortia of UTCs for transportation research and education. Kaptur was responsible for adding the University of Toledo to the SAFETEA-LU Act of 2005 as a University Transportation Center. "The University of Toledo has again demonstrated its national leadership in the transportation community, said Kaptur." "I am so delighted that the University competed for and was awarded these two prestigious grants. It will advance the University to the cutting edge of innovation as our nation develops transportation systems for the 21st Century and beyond," Kaptur said. University of Toledo President Lloyd Jacobs was pleased to hear the announcement: "Rich Martinko [the University of Toledo UTC director] and his university team have done a tremendous job to maximize the value of our transportation resources in Northwest Ohio. We are again indebted to Congresswoman Kaptur." Each consortium of universities will receive approximately $3.5 million to focus on the nation's freight systems, in particular studying truck, rail, waterway, air, and multimodal freight planning, management, and operations. Since the University of Toledo participates in two consortia, the University of Toledo will have access to grants in both consortia led by the University of Wisconsin and San Jose University. The universities will work together to determine how the funds will be distributed. Kaptur noted that Bowling Green State University will also receive a portion of the $3.5 million grant through the San Jose University consortium.
01.19.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed participants to the Canada-Ohio Aerospace Summit hosted by the Ohio Aerospace Institute (OAI) from January 11-12, 2012 at the OAI facility in Cleveland, Ohio. "OAI is an important partner in our regional job creation strategy, said Kaptur. "Through partnership and innovation, OAI provides value in the aerospace industry. By creating an international alliance with Canada, OAI extends our reach on the continent as leaders in aviation, aerospace, and aeronautics." The purpose of the event was to foster commercial partnerships, technology transfer and collaborative research. Over 100 participants from industry, research organizations and academia attended the two-day event and over 130 business-to-business appointments between Canadian and Ohio-based firms were held.
01.18.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives rebuked recent comments made by Ohio State University President E. Gordon Gee about the Polish army. "As a Polish-American, I fail to see the humor when the president of a university that is home to the Center for Slavic and East European Studies describes bureaucratic turf battles with administrators at his school as 'shooting each other...kind of like the Polish Army,'" said Kaptur. Nearly half a million Polish Americans reside in Ohio alone. Polish-American groups in Ohio and across the country have also criticized President Gee for his slanderous remarks. The Polish American Congress, Kosciuszko Foundation, and the Piast Institute have forwarded copies of their letters reprimanding Mr. Gee to Congresswoman Kaptur. Congresswoman Kaptur agrees with these Polish-American groups: "His comments revealed not only insensitivity to the suffering of the Polish people over the past two centuries, but a shocking lack of knowledge of history. The leader of a major academic institution should know better." Kaptur, an active member of the Congressional Poland Caucus, also recounted the heroic story of a long time friend and Ohio resident, Marian Wojciechowski. Wojciechowski commanded a Polish Army cavalry platoon against the Nazis at the start of World War II and survived the Auschwitz concentration camp before immigrating to the U.S. "There was nothing disorganized or cowardly about Marian's home regiment," said Kaptur, which eventually was awarded the Virtuti Military, Poland's highest military honor for securing a tactical victory in the Battle of Mokra. "No, President Gee, the Polish soldiers at Mokra did not shoot at each other; in fact, they inflicted surprisingly heavy losses against the Nazi invaders who lost 800 men," Kaptur said. Eventually the Poles' situation deteriorated as they ran low on ammunition and were ultimately overmatched. Poland lost a higher percentage of her population than any other nation—approximately one out of every five people. "The Wojciechowski family story is a metaphor for liberty's struggle, full of courage, valor and sacrifice. It is recounted in the book, 'Seven Paths to Freedom,' edited by Miroslawa Zawadzka and Andrezj Zawadzki," said Kaptur. "I'm going to send a copy to President Gee. I hope he reads it."
01.16.2012	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur delivered remarks at several celebrations honoring the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., this weekend. At one such celebration at Toledo’s Savage Center, Congresswoman Kaptur delivered these remarks: "My friends, the Reverend Doctor King was known for many great deeds, for his great leadership and for his eloquence. One of my favorite quotes from Dr. King goes like this: "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice." Think about that statement. Not the ark, as in Noah's ark, of course. But an arc as a curve--as a bridge across the ages, a span between right and wrong. Dr. King refers to the arc of the moral universe. It conjures up a beautiful vision of a journey, too, a philosophical journey across the ages. A journey with a destination in mind: the land of justice. The Promised Land. "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice." The road might be difficult, but in the end we will reach the land of justice. We shall overcome. And we as individuals can have an impact on that arc. Through our actions and our thoughts and our deeds, we can help bend that arc and pull it ever so slightly toward its inevitable, inexorable destination. Each of us working together can help bend that arc. That is why we are called to a national day of service. Bend the arc. Bend it toward justice. Justice for all."
01.06.2012	Ohio Rep Pushes for Creation of a Modern-Day Civilian Conservation Corps Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, welcoming the latest report showing 200,000 new jobs last month, this morning urged Congress and the Obama Administration to redouble efforts to address the jobs crisis in hard-hit areas such as Ohio. "The economy added 1.6 million jobs last year, but we still have a long way to go in Ohio and other hard-hit areas of the country," said Kaptur. Kaptur said House Speaker John Boehner and Congressional Republicans have focused petty partisan battles such as opposing unemployment benefits rather than working together to create jobs. "I urge Congressional leaders to put partisan politics aside and focus on putting Americans back to work," she said. Congresswoman Kaptur renewed her call for congressional leaders to take up her bill (H.R. 494) to create a 21st Century version of the Civilian Conservation Corps. "A modern-day CCC could put millions of Americans to work within a matter of weeks, restoring our natural resources and reforesting our environment, demolishing vacant homes and developing new economic opportunities in both rural and urban areas," she said. Kaptur said her CCC bill gives preference to unemployed veterans and unemployed Americans who have exhausted their jobless benefits. The measure currently has 20 co-sponsors, including Congresswoman Marcia Fudge and Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio. The U.S. Labor Department reported this morning that the nation's unemployment rate dropped to 8.5 percent, its lowest level in almost three years. "President Obama walked into a real mess," Kaptur said. "Slowly but surely, we're digging our way out. But we have to keep our focus on creating jobs for the 13 million Americans who can't find work."
01.02.2012	The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has created a program to help consumers find answers on consumer financial products and services and respond to consumer complaints regarding the business practices of banks and other institutions supervised by the CFPB. Consumer Response is currently handling complaints and inquiries related to: • Credit cards • Mortgages • Federal Reserve-regulated financial institutions with assets of $10 billion and greater In addition, the CFPB offers referral services to the HOPE™ hotline for homeowners who are behind on their mortgage and in need of help, and to the independent consultant managing intake for the Independent Foreclosure Review process. For more information, please go to: www.consumerfinance.gov or call my office at (800) 964-4699.
12.20.2011	Organizations throughout the Ninth Congressional District will receive more than $6 million in federal assistance to help the homeless, including $4.1 million in Toledo and Lucas County, according to U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9). Kaptur announced a series of awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development under the Continuum of Care initiative to combat homelessness. Congresswoman Kaptur announced a total of 33 grants to more than a dozen organizations that provide services to homeless families and individuals throughout the District. Most of the grant announcements involved renewals of funding from last year. "We must not forget, especially at this time of the year, that many people are in dire need of assistance," Kaptur said. "We have so many families in need, including families who have slipped out of the middle class and into poverty." Congresswoman Kaptur said many organizations have been overwhelmed with requests for help due to high unemployment and home foreclosures. "So many people are in need at this time of the year, including many families who have fallen below the poverty line." Services that will be provided with the assistance include permanent and transitional housing and supportive services. "These funds are needed to help many people through the toughest of times," Kaptur said. "These awards make an important statement that we care about every person in our community."
12.20.2011	Here we go again. Another phony crisis, courtesy of the extremists in the House Republican Caucus. House Republicans have never met a deal that they couldn't find a reason to dislike. They abhor compromise so much that they've now resorted to fighting their colleagues in the other body in order to avoid doing something positive for the country such as cutting the payroll tax, or extending jobless benefits, or approving a Medicare fix for our doctors. House Republican leadership consistently approaches the serious business of legislating as if it were nothing more than a game of "chicken." They threatened to shut down the government over the debt ceiling earlier this year. What did that get us? The Super Committee. Now they want to hold hostage three important steps to help our economy--all in the name of a pipeline, apparently. But it weren't the pipeline, it would be something else. Because what the Republicans really want is gridlock. Can there any longer be any doubt? One hundred sixty million American families want a payroll tax cut; the House Republicans want to play politics. Millions of Americans need unemployment benefits; House Republicans need to fight. And it doesn't matter with whom. If they can't fight with Democrats who are standing up for the middle class, they'll fight with their colleagues in the other body. Here's what I want for Christmas: I want the Republicans to care half as much about manufacturing jobs as they care about manufacturing crises.
12.16.2011	The House of Representatives approved the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 by a vote of 296-121 to avoid a government shutdown. This compromise measure will keep the government operating and also make investments to sustain the economic recovery and spur job growth. One such investment is the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Working in a bipartisan fashion on the Appropriations Committee, I was able to help restore $50 million to bring the funding back to last year's level. All along the Lake Erie coast, we have seen the importance of the GLRI: • Creation of a wetland by the University of Toledo along Wolf Creek in Lucas County; • Invasive species control by Cleveland Metroparks in the Cuyahoga River basin; • Nutrient reduction along the Sandusky River. In all, the Lake Erie shoreline benefited from approximately $3.9 million in GLRI assistance this year. A $50 million cut would have seriously harmed our efforts to protect the Great Lakes, especially Lake Erie. I am very pleased to help restore the funding for the GLRI.
12.14.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur organized a meeting today with Cleveland's Western Reserve Land Conservancy and officials from the U.S. Department of Treasury to express concern over Ohio's lingering housing crisis and to encourage additional federal assistance for Ohio's struggling homeowners. "Widespread foreclosures and an oversupply of houses continue to leave our region dotted with vacant and abandoned properties, inviting crime and driving down home values," Kaptur said. "Treasury should be investing in these communities instead of pumping more money into big banks on Wall Street." The group discussed relief proposals, including special emergency recovery bonds, similar to those issued by the Treasury in response to other crises. The bonds would be used for urban revitalization projects, removing abandoned houses, improving property values, and taking strain off local governments. "I am encouraged by the innovative response from local leaders, and I hope federal officials at Treasury and in the Administration can get behind them quickly," said Kaptur. The executive director of President Obama's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness Don Graves, who is from Cleveland, led the Treasury team at the meeting. He was accompanied by Buzz Roberts, director of the Office of Small Business, Community Development, and Housing Policy. Officials representing the Western Reserve Land Conservancy included President and CEO Richard Cochran and his colleague, Scott Wilson, as well as former Cuyahoga County Treasurer Jim Rokakis, a leader in housing reform and foreclosure prevention programs.
12.14.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur's statement as prepared for delivery at the China Commission hearing on December 13, 2011: This hearing asks the question, "Has China Kept Its Promises to the WTO?" The answer is a clear and unmistakable no. In 1999, before China was granted Permanent Normal Trade Relations, then President Clinton argued, "the agreement will create unprecedented opportunities for American farmers, workers, and companies to compete successfully in China's market." This rosy scenario never materialized. China did not open up its market, and we witnessed enormous job losses and an unprecedented decline in American manufacturing. Today, the U.S. trade deficit with China is mammoth. Last year, the total U.S. trade deficit was approximately half a trillion dollars, and over half of that, $273 billion, was our trade deficit with China. Our cumulative trade deficit with China since granting them Permanent Normal Trade Relations is approximately $2 trillion. You can see the money and the jobs literally flowing out of our country. I know that Clyde Prestowitz, who is testifying today, has estimated that every billion dollars in trade deficit translates to roughly 15,000 lost U.S. jobs. The quick back-of-the-envelope math means that the U.S. lost over 4 million jobs to China last year. While the unemployment numbers improved slightly last month, job creation needs to be our number one priority. Economists have estimated that the U.S. will still need to create 28 million jobs between now and 2018 to employ all the U.S. workers who want a job. I have served on this Commission since its creation, and its work is so very important. The outflow of capital and the outsourcing of jobs from the U.S. to China is not an accident. The predictions that many of us made that Beijing would not live up to its side of the bargain after China officially joined the World Trade Organization have come true. Concerns that China would use its increased independence to manipulate its currency in order to increase its trade balance with the United States—which was raised by organizations like the Economic Policy Institute—were ignored a decade ago. And what we see today is pervasive currency manipulation on the part of Beijing. This is widely acknowledged by everyone from the President to the majority of Members of Congress. The only debate seems to be to what degree the yuan is undervalued. Yet, we see no strong action from the Treasury, and Congress has failed to mandate stronger action. The promises that U.S. manufactured products would gain real access to the Chinese market have never been kept. I want to point out just one example that the New York Times reported on earlier this month, and I ask that the entire piece be included in the record. Do you know what a Jeep Grand Cherokee costs in China? The answer: $85,000. That's about three times the cost in the U.S. Why? According to the New York Times, it's due to a clever and obvious set of protective tariffs. And what have we done about it? In Toledo, we make the Jeep Wrangler, and I expect this Commission to take the issue of China's treatment of the U.S. auto industry seriously, and to further investigate this issue for inclusion in its next annual report. And, I am asking that the U.S. Trade Representative develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing China's anti-competitive behavior. For those of us from Northern Ohio, the impact of China's unfair trade practices do not stop with the auto industry. We are a center for the domestic solar industry, which has so much promise for creating true energy independence for our republic. Our domestic solar industry has publicly argued for some time that the Chinese are dumping photovoltaic cells on the U.S. market, and the recent U.S. International Trade Commission ruling in favor of the U.S. industry confirms it. I am going to ask that the China Commission also follow up on this issue, and that we make it clear to the Administration that we demand strong action in response. Everywhere we look, it is the same story. The economist Pat Choate testified before the Commission earlier this year saying that, "China is the world's leading infringer of U.S. owned patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets." And, he further notes in his testimony that, "The challenge...is beyond the capacity of the Office of the United States Trade Representative to address." We need to take China's failure to live up to its commitments much more seriously. We need a trade policy that creates jobs here in the U.S. We need to take on currency manipulation, unfair tariffs on American made products, undercutting American manufacturers through unfair practices, and outright theft of American intellectual property.
12.09.2011	In a marathon House hearing that lasted over eight hours, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur listened as former CEO of Goldman Sachs and MF Global Jon Corzine testified before the House Agriculture Committee on December 8, 2011. Mr. Corzine was subpoenaed by the House Agriculture Committee to explain how MF Global collapsed in one of the largest bankruptcies in U.S. history with more than a billion dollars missing from their clients' segregated accounts. Many agricultural businesses invested in firms like MF Global, so countless farmers, ranchers, and small businesses have lost millions from MF Global's disastrous bets. MF Global is currently under investigation by the FBI and federal regulators. In addition, the firm's shareholders have filed several class-action lawsuits against Corzine and three other top executives for making bogus claims about MF Global's financial health and cash balances. The lawsuits are being consolidated in bankruptcy court. In response to Mr. Corzine's testimony, Congresswoman Kaptur released the following statement today: "Hundreds of millions of customer dollars have been lost in reckless trades and only the ongoing bankruptcy proceeding holds hope of beginning to recoup some of their losses. "I found incredulous Mr. Corzine's contentions that he had 'limited knowledge' of the suspect transactions that moved hundreds of millions of dollars from customer accounts in the days before MF Global filed for bankruptcy. "Mr. Corzine had worked for Goldman Sachs for 24 years. He, more than most Wall Street investors, held vast knowledge of global trades, from his long association with Goldman to serving as a partner in one of Goldman's spin-off firms like J.C. Flowers, after his stint as a U.S. Senator and Governor of New Jersey. "I am among those critics who reacted with suspicion and disbelief to his testimony. As others have noted, it is never acceptable to divert money from customers' segregated accounts and it is still fraud, even if the money is found. "Just as he avoided any first-hand knowledge of the transfers of funds that had caused the firm's failure, Mr. Corzine deflected all questions directed to him regarding his knowledge about the wire transfers of funds from customer accounts for other purposes, knowing that his admission could be used against him in the courtroom, should Corzine ever be charged in a federal case," said Kaptur. "Corzine is a skilled bond trader with powerful friends. He should have known a 30:1 leverage ratio was highly risky against weaker sovereign European debt. His firm simply didn't have the funds to meet margin calls. "From data presented at the hearing, it appears that the firm was having difficulty throughout 2011. So, the question must be asked again of Wall Street big money managers: 'Why do you take unnecessary risks with other people's money and what more must Congress do to rein in such reckless behavior?' "We must begin with more robust prosecution. That is why I have been fighting for an aggressive investigation of financial crimes and introduced H.R. 1350, The Financial Crimes Criminal Investigation Act. This bill will direct the FBI to hire an additional 1,000 agents and additional forensic accounting experts to catch white collar criminals, so they can be brought to prosecution. We simply cannot stand idly by when we know hundreds of millions of dollars can be stolen in the blink of an eye." Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur has been a strong critic of Wall Street's role in the U.S. economic recession and housing market collapse. She is the senior woman in the U.S. House of Representatives and serves on the House Agriculture, Defense, and Transportation--Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Appropriations subcommittees.
12.07.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur met with George H. Lambert, Jr., the new president and CEO of the Lorain County Urban League, Inc. They discussed ways in which the organization can become more involved in community agriculture. Kaptur is committed to helping Mr. Lambert find the necessary federal resources to start several pilot projects. "In many urban areas of the country, access to fresh fruit and vegetables is limited," said Kaptur. "We need to encourage individuals in our communities throughout Northern Ohio to grow their own healthy food through community gardens, vertical gardens, and hoop houses," Kaptur said. Kaptur and Lambert also discussed Kaptur's legislation, H.R. 3225, the Community Agriculture Development and Jobs Act. Kaptur's bill would provide additional resources for agricultural production in urban areas and also increase economic growth. "Not only will this bill encourage production in areas that need it most, but it also has the potential to create over 67,000 jobs," said Kaptur. "We need to continue building strong, engaged communities and work together to lift Northern Ohio out of our current economic challenges. That means more innovation, additional education and job training, better access to nutrition and health care, and affordable housing for our people. "We congratulate Mr. Lambert on his new role at the Lorain County Urban League. I have no doubt that Mr. Lambert will be a strong voice for our communities in Lorain County and the surrounding areas," said Kaptur.
11.28.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, who has urged hiring additional FBI agents to focus on white collar crime, applauded Judge Rakoff's ruling. "Judge Rakoff is correct to focus on the public interest and the need for more transparency. Perhaps this ruling will help convince Congress that it's still important that we get to the bottom of the financial scandal."
11.17.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur said this evening she was pleased that a House-passed measure to avert a government shutdown also includes resources for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to hire more than 200 additional agents to investigate white-collar crime. The so-called "minibus" appropriations measure passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 298-121. "Thousands of people throughout Northern Ohio are under tremendous financial strain due to the recklessness of Wall Street," Kaptur said. "By the FBI's own account, it does not have the agents to investigate potential financial crimes." Funding for the additional agents for the White Collar Crime Division was one of several provisions that Congresswoman Kaptur fought to include in the bill, which funds the Departments of Justice, Agriculture, Commerce, Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. Congresswoman Kaptur said she believes her provision will result in more than $12 million for the FBI to hire approximately 211 agents. "I have said that we need a thousand more FBI agents to do real investigation and prosecution, along with forensic accounting, so that we can bring to justice those who have done wrong to this Republic. It is long overdue, and I am glad that the 'minibus' is a step in the right direction. "Those who broke the law in order to get rich at the expense of the middle class should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law." Kaptur said that the legislation also restores cuts to food banks, domestic food assistance and highway construction. The bill also extends the deadline for the U.S. Postal Service to pay $5.5 billion to the U.S. Treasury for future retiree health benefits.
11.16.2011	This video is courtesy of 13ABC Action News in Toledo, Ohio. To watch the full video, click here. In remarks to the workforce at the North Toledo plant, Kaptur thanked Toledo Jeep’s award winning workforce for a job well done. “Not far from where we are gathered stands a very tall fire bricked smoke stack bearing the word Overland. It is an historical reminder of how important you and this place, and all those thousands of people who devoted their lives to building a great product and a great nation, truly are,” said Kaptur. “That stack defines and it brands us. It is authentic and stands as a sentry at the gate of who we were and who we are, what we do today and what we will be tomorrow,” declared Kaptur. The Overland stack and the Toledo North Assembly plant are at the crossroads of the two most traveled interstates in Northwest Ohio. "Let me also thank President Barack Obama and the 237 members of the House of Representatives who voted to make this day possible," she said, pointing to the rescue of the American automobile industry in its darkest hour. "Jeep: rugged, reliable, resilient and free as the open road," said Congresswoman Kaptur, comparing the iconic brand to the character of the plant's workers and the people of Northern Ohio.
11.16.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur was on hand in Lorain this afternoon to welcome news from Republic Steel that the company will invest $85.2 million and create 449 new jobs at its Lorain, Ohio faciities. The company will soon begin work to install a new electric arc furnace at its Lorain steelworks site. "Steel is part of Lorain's great heritage—it's in the blood of the workforce. "The demand for steel products is greatly increasing in the auto and energy sectors," said Congresswoman Kaptur, "and we will help meet that demand right here in Lorain County. "Four hundred fifty jobs in the steel industry in Lorain will mean many more jobs in the spinoff industries. "Manufacturing is on the rebound in Ohio. We're going to make things in America and make things in Ohio." Republic Steel is celebrating its 125th anniversary and is America's leading supplier of special bar quality steel.
11.10.2011	While Memorial Day honors those who have died protecting our country, Veterans Day is a day to show our gratitude to the twenty-two million living men and women who have served our country around the world in the name of liberty and democracy. Veterans will be honored in Ohio and across our country on Friday and throughout the weekend. "On this Veterans Day, please take some time to reach out and show your gratitude to a veteran. Rake their leaves. Take them a home-cooked meal. Send them a thank you card," said Congresswoman Kaptur. There are currently 100,000 veterans serving at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs who work tirelessly for the well-being of our fellow veterans. Please click here for more information on Veterans Day and the services offered to veterans by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
10.31.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur joined students at Beverly Elementary School and local officials to celebrate formal acquisition of an 11.6-mile corridor along the former CSX railroad line through Toledo. Congresswoman Kaptur said the project, including almost $6 million in federal highway dollars, will "create jobs and connect our neighborhoods." She made the announcement in the library of the new Beverly Elementary School in south Toledo. "Trails enhance recreation and promote wellness in a vibrant community. I'm thrilled to know that generations from now, families will look back and thank all of our local partners for building our community forward," she said. Kaptur praised the work of the Trust for Public Land (TPL), a leading national conservation organization, which facilitated the transfer of the former CSX track line to the new owners, including MetroParks of the Toledo Area, the city of Toledo, the University of Toledo, and the Wood County Port Authority. TPL also facilitated the sale of the Maumee River bridge from CSX to the Wood County Port Authority. "The popular vision for a new 11-mile trail in Toledo has reached a significant milestone," said Warren Henry, vice president of transportation, Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments (TMACOG). "We now have an exceptional opportunity to develop a major north-south urban trail connecting homes, parks, schools, and workplaces using a clean, green, active, and safe travel option." TMACOG has organized the partners on the Westside Rail to Trail project, which is at the core of their transportation plan for Toledo. The trail will be planned and developed to connect college campuses, community parks, other local trail systems, and numerous schools and neighborhoods. Tens of thousands of people within the City of Toledo and Lucas and Wood Counties will have access to Westside Trail. Wood County Port Authority will retain the half-mile Maumee River bridge portion of the property. One of the first steps in the trail development process will be the demolition of the bridge. The longest portion of the property, 4.1 miles, was transferred to The University of Toledo. The city now owns 3.5 miles of the trail, Metroparks of the Toledo Area will retain 1.75 miles, and Wood County Park District 1.5 miles. Since it was founded in 1972, TPL has helped protect three million acres of land in 47 states. In Ohio, TPL has protected more than 12,300 acres valued at more than $130 million. TPL depends on the support and generosity of individuals, foundations, and businesses to achieve its mission to preserve land for people.
10.26.2011	Job creation is the best solution to America's budget deficit, Congresswoman Kaptur (OH-9) said in a national television interview. Congresswoman Kaptur also criticized any attempt to make unreasonable cuts to Social Security and Medicare. Appearing on "Lou Dobbs Tonight" on the Fox Business Channel, Congresswoman Kaptur said the Select Committee on Deficit Reduction simply must complete its work by a Nov. 23 deadline. "They better get the job done," she said. If the committee fails to reach agreement on $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction measures, automatic cuts will take effect, half of which would come from national defense. "The most important thing we can do is to create jobs in this economy, starting in small business, and make goods in America again," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "Without putting those 14-24 million Americans who are currently out of work back to work, they're not going to be able to get to a robust economy with just austerity. They have to make decisions that create jobs in this country." Kaptur said the government could save billions of dollars with common-sense solutions such as bulk pricing of pharmaceuticals, but drew the line at unreasonable cuts in Social Security and Medicare. "If they save money that way, I support it," she said. "If they cut into the bone of senior citizens who are in nursing homes across this country, with bed sores and unable to have decent nursing care, I can't go there." Congresswoman Kaptur said Congress itself must do a better job. "We have to exercise our powers ... We just can't put in the kinds of days that we had yesterday and today when we weren't legislating most of the day and committees weren't meeting most of the day." Congresswoman Kaptur defended President Obama from her fellow guest, Republican Joe Walsh (R-Ill.), who called the president "irrelevant." Kaptur said: "I can't agree with that. If it were not for this president, we would not have an automotive industry left in this country. We can't be extreme in our statements; we have to be more measured. And certainly for our part of the country, the rescue of the automotive industry ... has been a big job creator in our region."
10.25.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur today praised President Obama for issuing executive orders to address unemployment among America's veterans. "I agree with the president when he says we can't wait to put America's veterans back to work," said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves as a member of the House Appropriations defense subcommittee. The president announced two initiatives to help create jobs for veterans, who are suffering from a jobless rate of more than 11 percent. President Obama challenged community health centers to hire 8,000 veterans, approximately one veteran per health center site, over the next three years. He also announced a program to make it easier for veterans to use the training they have received in the military to become physician assistants. "The president is right to take action and Congress should also continue working to pass legislation that would alleviate the unemployment crisis among veterans," Congresswoman Kaptur said, citing the Returning Heroes Tax Credit, the Wounded Warriors Tax Credit, and her own bill to create a modern-day Civilian Conservation Corps led by veterans that would rebuild and repair the nation's natural infrastructure. The Returning Heroes Tax Credit would provide up to $5,600 for firms that hire unemployed veterans. The Wounded Warriors Tax Credit would increase the existing tax credit up to $9,600 for firms that hire veterans with service-connected disabilities. Both tax credits are included in the American Jobs Act that has been held up by Republicans in Congress. Congresswoman Kaptur's bill, The 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps Act, would authorize the president to advance public works programs to put jobless Americans to work in reforestation, forest fire prevention, flood control, and construction of National Park System paths and trails. Veterans of the armed forces and reserves would receive hiring preferences under the Kaptur bill, H.R. 494. Congresswoman Kaptur said the jobless rate last year for veterans who served in the military since September 2011 (the Gulf War-era II veterans) was 11.5 percent, almost one third higher than the average national unemployment rate, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (March 11, 2011). She said the BLS found the unemployment rate among Gulf War-era II veterans with a service-connected disability was approximately 25 percent.
10.19.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today welcomed the announcement that monthly Social Security benefits will increase by 3.6% next year. She also urged a change in the formula to calculate the impact of inflation on America's seniors. "This announcement could not have come at a better time," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "In a harsh economic climate, seniors in our country have gone two years without an increase in the cost of living adjustment, despite rising prices for necessities such as food and fuel." She noted that prices for regular gasoline have increased by approximately 36 percent in the past two years combined and that food prices are on pace to increase 3-4 percent this year. The 3.6% cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) will begin for 55 million Social Security beneficiaries in January 2012. Increased payments to more than eight million Supplementary Security income beneficiaries will begin on December 30, 2011. The Social Security Act provides for automatic increases in Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI), based on increases in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers. The COLA increased every year between 1975 and 2009, but remained static in 2010 and 2011. To protect seniors against the impact of inflation, Congresswoman Kaptur has co-sponsored the Preserving Our Promise to Seniors Act (H.R. 539), which would create a Consumer Price Index for elderly consumers that would more accurately measure the spending patterns of older Americans. "Social Security has been a lifeline for seniors in America for more than 75 years," said Congresswoman Kaptur, noting that President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law on August 14, 1935. In addition to several provisions for general welfare, the new Act created a social insurance program designed to pay retired workers age 65 or older a continuing income after retirement. "Social Security has allowed millions of Americans to live independent lives and given them economic security in their golden years," she said. Kaptur also noted that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which she supported and which President Obama signed into law in February 2009, provided a special one-time economic payment of $250 to adults who were eligible for benefits from one of the four following federal benefit programs: Social Security, SSI, Railroad Retirement, and Veterans Disability. Click here for more information or call my office at (800) 964-4699.
10.12.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today urged colleagues to reject proposed "free trade" agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama, comparing them to the NAFTA deal that killed American jobs. She called for a "new course" on trade that will put American workers first. "Creating jobs should be our number one priority, not killing jobs," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "These unfair, unbalanced agreements will not have a demonstrable, positive impact on job creation. We have lost six million manufacturing jobs in the past decade. Enough is enough. "These latest agreements simply continue the failed trade policies embodied by NAFTA. We have seen how these agreements have led to the outsourcing of U.S. jobs and production. We need a new direction in trade policy that puts the needs of working American families first." Kaptur, who helped lead the historic fight against NAFTA in 1993, is the sponsor of the Trade Balancing Act (H.R. 171), which would require the president to address trade imbalances with major trading partners. She is also the sponsor of the NAFTA Accountability Act (H.R. 2297) that would require a renegotiation of the agreement. Congresswoman Kaptur called the proposed agreement with South Korea "unfair and unbalanced" with respect to the automobile industry, which she called "the cornerstone of our economy in Northern Ohio." She cited Economic Policy Institute estimates that the U.S.-South Korea agreement would cost America up to 159,000 jobs. Congresswoman Kaptur said Colombia has one of the worst labor rights records in the world. In the past 25 years, she said, more than 2,800 Colombian union members have been killed, including 22 union leaders this year alone. "It is a slap in the face to working men and working women to reward a country where union members can be targeted for assassination simply for standing up for working people and exercising the right to organize," Kaptur said. She characterized Panama as "historically one of the world's major tax havens for corporations and millionaires that refuse to pay their fair share. It is based on the same failed trade model as NAFTA, with the same provisions that undercut Buy America provisions and provided special rights to foreign corporations to challenge U.S. public interest laws." Watch Kaptur's latest speeches on the House floor regarding these trade agreements. October 12: We Don't Have Any Balanced Trade Accounts. These Deficits Snuff Out Economic Growth. Didn't Anybody Here Take Math? October 12: All NAFTA-Type Trade Accords Have Been Job Losers October 12: I Oppose the Trade Agreements with Colombia, Panama, and S. Korea October 11: Every Single Year We Have a Trade Deficit with South Korea. Why Do We Want to Make it Worse? October 11: The Panama Agreement Undermines the Buy American Policies that Reinvest in our Communities October 11: It's Time for America to Negotiate Fair Trade Agreements that Create Jobs in America
10.11.2011	Appearing on "The Kudlow Report" on CNBC, Congresswoman Kaptur last night said Republicans in Congress should abandon their obstructionist tactics and help pass President Obama's jobs bill. "Far too many Republicans are more anti-Obama than they are pro-jobs, and what we need is a Congress focused on job creation," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "People need jobs and they need investment. What's happening out here in the real America is that loans still aren't being made to small business. Six institutions now command two thirds of the banking system in this country. It's too much power in too few hands—that's the problem." Congresswoman Kaptur charged that Republicans "have offered no jobs bill" and have refused to support the president's proposal to cut the payroll tax, which would "help both consumers and small businesses, and that would create the kind of bounce that Nan and I both would like to see in the economy." Click on the image below to watch the video. Congresswoman Kaptur criticized House Minority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) for proclaiming the president's jobs bill "dead on arrival." "I've never heard a leader of a major party say that when the country is longing for jobs and we've got growth stuck in this country. America is an 'I can'nation. We're not a country that looks in the rear-view mirror. That's a great disappointment when a leader says that." Congresswoman Kaptur appeared on "The Kudlow Report" with U.S. Rep. Nan Hayworth, a Republican from New York.
10.07.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur this morning welcomed the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation that the Ohio Department of Transportation may not use federal funding to further a scheme to privatize the Ohio Turnpike. "The Turnpike is a capital asset that should be used for economic development in Northern Ohio, not a financial derivative to be shopped around to the highest bidder," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The Turnpike belongs to the Ohio people--they paid for it. I applaud Secretary (Ray) LaHood for making the correct decision and standing up for the people of Northern Ohio." U.S. Department of Transportation officials announced the decision with revoke funding for privatization during a conference call this morning with members of the Ohio Democratic congressional delegation. Congresswoman Kaptur praised her colleague, U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) for organizing the call and a letter to USDOT earlier this week. Ohio Democrats in the U.S. House had sent a letter to Secretary LaHood on Tuesday, arguing that it was an improper use of federal planning and research dollars--reportedly $1.5 million--to pay a contractor to advise the Kasich Administration on privatizing the Turnpike. "(W)e have serious concerns that using federal funds to progress plans to sell off a state asset are far from the intended spirit of the program," they said. "(U)sing these funds to advance a privatization plan that could potentially severely cost drivers via increased tolls, threaten the job security of over 1,000 Ohioans, and drive up costs for local governments through increased maintenance costs of local roads, is a questionable use of federal taxpayer dollars and exposes a loophole in the program guidelines. "While we may not all agree on the State's actions towards privatization of the Ohio Turnpike, federal taxpayer funds should not be serving to facilitate a particular policy initiative to privatize a public asset." Read the following articles for more information: Toledo Blade: "Kaptur decries leasing plan for Ohio Turnpike" WKBN.com: "Money revoked for Ohio Turnpike privatization project" Toledo Blade: "Ohio won't get $1.5 million for Turnpike study, federal department decides"
10.06.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today joined 77 Democratic colleagues in urging the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to require the government to negotiate prescription drug prices under Medicare Part D. "The select committee has a golden opportunity to cut the deficit while helping seniors save money on drug prices and strengthening Medicare by keeping costs lower," said Congresswoman Kaptur. At the insistence of Republicans, Congress in 2003 prohibited the federal government from negotiating with pharmaceutical companies to obtain lower drug prices, thus preserving the drug companies' profits from one of their biggest customers, Medicare. A 2008 report by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform revealed that negotiated prices could would save taxpayers $156 billion and Medicare beneficiaries $27 billion over a 10-year period. The committee found that the cost of providing the leading 100 drugs to beneficiaries who are eligible under both Medicare and Medicaid was 30 percent higher under Medicare. Along that line, a recent report by the Department of Health and Human Services found that Medicaid's net costs for the 100 most-prescribed brand name drugs were approximately one third lower than the same drugs under Medicare Part D. "(A)llowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate prescription drug prices as she does for Medicaid beneficiaries would lead to significant deficit reduction in the future without sacrificing seniors' benefits," the Members of Congress wrote. "We have the opportunity to dramatically curb the costs, and at a time of tough budgets for both families and the government, we simply cannot afford to leave these real savings on the table." The letter was signed by three members of the Ohio congressional delegation: Kaptur, Marcia Fudge and Dennis Kucinich.
10.06.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur expressed support for the "Occupy Wall Street" rallies in New York and drew a comparison to the fight against State Issue 2 in Ohio. "In Ohio, we're painfully aware of Wall Street abuses," Kaptur said. "Right now, we're standing up to the anti-worker agenda of a governor who came from Wall Street via Lehman Brothers." She said, "Ohioans should fight back against Wall Street greed by defeating State Issue 2, which would limit the rights of teachers, firefighters, and police officers to participate in discussions with employers about wages and benefits in their respective professions through normal collective bargaining." Earlier today, speaking on the House floor, Kaptur said the protestors on Wall Street "have found the right piece of geography. They have their eyes on the right subject." Click on the image below to watch the Congresswoman's speech. She also criticized the Republican-led Congress for failing to address the real economic challenges facing America. "It is Congress that is unfocused, disorganized. It is Congress that has not met its obligation to the American people. Congress has not addressed the real damage caused by Wall Street greed. This institution can't even do rigorous oversight hearings across America, starting on Wall Street. "It is this body that has allowed justice to be denied to millions of our fellow Americans harmed by Wall Street wrongdoers. Wall Street has taken bonuses, as we've seen—the largest transfer of wealth from Main Street to Wall Street in history. "I'm placing in the record today 12 bills Congress needs to pass to yield long-overdue justice, restore a trustworthy competitive banking system, and get the big money out of politics, including this Congress. These bills include restoring Glass-Steagall, helping those facing foreclosure, and adding 1,000 FBI agents to do real investigation and prosecution along with forensic accounting to bring those who have done wrong to this republic to justice."
10.03.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a federal award of $799,999 to the Toledo Area Ministries for their innovative "Keeping It Together" project to strengthen marriages and relationships. The federal funding was provided by the U.S. Department of Housing and Human Services under the Office of Family Assistance. "The economic crisis has put tremendous strains on our families throughout Northern Ohio, and Toledo Area Ministries deserves praise and support for its leadership in keeping families intact and strong," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Kaptur cited recent statistics showing rising poverty in Toledo as evidence of the need. "One in four Toledoans lives in poverty, and it's even worse for women, children, and African Americans. We're all in this together, and faith-based institutions such as Toledo Area Ministries are vital to helping stitch together the social fabric of our community," she said. "Keeping It Together" is designed to provide range of marriage and relationship education as well as skill-building activities for low-income couples and families. The initiative also aims to address the barriers that often keep families and individuals from constructive relationships and economic stability. Collaborative community partners in the "Keeping It Together" initiative include: NetWORK/The Source, the Toledo Area Ministries Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Family House, Lucas County Children's Services, United Way 211, Lucas County Department of Job and Family Services, Lucas County Child Support Enforcement Agency, Bethany House, the YWCA, Dynamis Counseling and Consulting, Suitably Attired, and Mercy Health Systems. Toledo Area Ministries is the largest ecumenical organization in Northwest Ohio, consisting of more than 125 congregations and six different denominations.
09.26.2011	HURON -- Employers would be better able to find skilled workers. Startup companies would be better able to make "data-driven decisions" about where to locate new plants. And the Northern Ohio economy would become more competitive in the global marketplace. Those are just some of the benefits of $800,000 in federal support for Bowling Green State University's Center for Regional Development, according to Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. "We know that we have to innovate our way out of this economic predicament," Congresswoman Kaptur told faculty and students here at BGSU's Firelands branch campus. "And we know that universities can be the job engines for our communities. "The strategy is to create partnerships between the private sector and Ohio's universities, providing the information to facilitate economic growth and create jobs. That's why this federal support is so important." Kaptur, who was welcomed to the branch campus by BGSU President Mary Ellen Mazey, praised the university's commitment to economic development in the region. "President Mazey has a national reputation as a strategist," Congresswoman Kaptur said, "and Dr. (Mike) Carroll, the center's director, is a real force in economic development." Kaptur said the $800,000 award from the U.S. Commerce Department's Economic Development Administration will allow the Center to develop a database to help close the information gap between employers and job seekers. Plus, economic development professionals will use the data to help attract new businesses to the area. "This strategy is tailored to our situation and designed to produce real results," Congresswoman Kaptur said. She noted that Bowling Green and project partner, Ohio University, were among a select group of 21 universities nationally to receive funding from the EDA. According to the BGSU website, the Center for Regional Development will create a searchable database containing real-time information on what workers exist in specific locations and the skill sets they possess. Users will select a specific service area and occupation, and the model will generate the worker density in that location. Everyone from welders to graphic designers will be included, said Dr. Carroll. "Nothing like this currently exists," he said. "A company representative or economic development officer will be able to log onto our site and pull up a map of all the truck drivers in a particular area, for example... "It will also help higher education institutions, especially community colleges, in all of Ohio to know what is needed in terms of curriculum in order to be more responsive to the state's needs." Congresswoman Kaptur also met with a government class and conducted a townhall-type meeting with students. The Firelands campus serves more than 2,500 undergraduate and graduate students, most of whom hail from Erie, Ottawa and Huron counties. Approximately one third of the Firelands students are "non-traditional"—that is, over the age of 25. Its Office for Educational Outreach provides customized training programs for area businesses and industry.
09.22.2011	LCCC Leadership in Key Job Growth Clusters Results in 'A Remarkable Victory' for Lorain County, Northeast Ohio Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced that a joint economic development initiative spearheaded by Lorain County Community College has won $2 million in federal support in a nationwide competition. Congresswoman Kaptur said the Northeast Ohio Speed-to-Market Accelerator joins 19 other projects in the nation to receive funding through the Jobs and Innovation Accelerator Challenge, a multi-agency competition conducted by the Obama Administration. The winning projects will create an estimated 5,000 jobs and more than 280 businesses nationally. Congresswoman Kaptur made the announcement this afternoon at Lorain County Community College, which will utilize $1 million in support from the Employment and Training Administration (ETA), the U.S. Department of Labor agency that provides job training and employment services. "Under President Roy Church's leadership, Lorain County Community College has scored a remarkable victory," Kaptur said. "I am so proud of his team to win this national competition, but the real winners are the people of Lorain County and Northeast Ohio. "The Speed-to-Market Accelerator will help bring our region's expertise in high technology to the market, generating sales and creating jobs—and attracting students to one of America's greatest community colleges. "This is how we win the future, this is how we regain our edge, and this is how make our region competitive globally." With the ETA funding, LCCC will lead an extensive network of Northeast Ohio universities in early assessment of cluster workforce needs in time to develop and implement education and training programs for the jobs of the future. Meanwhile, with Economic Development Administration (EDA) funding of $912,945, the Manufacturing Advocacy Growth Network (MAGNET) will team with the Northeast Ohio Technology Coalition and JumpStart to conduct a series of workshops to educate cluster members on speed-to-market and also provide one-on-one assistance to help them meet challenges such as identifying and penetrating key markets, engaging with commercialization partners and anchoring customers, increasing export revenue, and accessing capital. The third component of the winning grant will provide $150,000 to JumpStart through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to identify and recruit eligible businesses to join the Speed-to-Market Accelerator. It will also help minority businesses make initial sales to established companies; identify, pursue and secure new capital so businesses can grow; and, provide management and technical assistance through one-on-one counseling. About the Speed-to Market Accelerator: The Accelerator provides a step-by-step process to accelerate the speedy to market for near-production or pilot production prototypes. The primary objective of the Accelerator is to accelerate revenue generation, which stimulates job creation. The Accelerator also will increase the global competitiveness of cluster companies, attract additional private capital, and also attract students, incumbent workers and the unemployed to STMA-sponsored educational programs that infuse both the energy and flexible electronics clusters with talent. About the Jobs and Innovation Accelerator Challenge: The challenge is part of the Obama Administration's Regional Innovation Cluster Initiative, an interagency effort coordinated by the White House. It leverages existing resources from 16 federal agencies and awards funding to regions that demonstrate the existence of high-growth industries that support a wide range of economic and workforce development activities. The following federal agencies support this competition: Department of Agriculture; the Department of Commerce's EDA, International Trade Administration, Minority Business Development Agency, and National Institute of Standards and Technology Manufacturing Extension Partnership; Department of Defense; Department of Education; Department of Energy; Department of Health and Human Services; Department of Housing and Urban Development; Department of Labor; Department of Transportation; Department of Treasury; Environmental Protection Agency; National Science Foundation; and SBA.
09.12.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur, addressing members of Delta Company at their sendoff ceremony in Sandusky, thanked the soldiers and their families for their sacrifices. "You represent what is best about America," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "We thank you for your service and sacrifice in the name of freedom. "Once I was asked by a citizen in Ukraine, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, why Americans loved their country. "You are why. You represent the possibility that America represents to people around the world."
08.31.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today again urged Vietnam War veterans and their survivors to apply for retroactive benefits if they suffer from three new Agent Orange presumptive conditions. Almost 90,000 Vietnam veterans and their survivors nationwide have applied for the benefits since the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) amended its regulations last year to add ischemic heart disease, Parkinson's disease, and hairy cell leukemia and other chronic B-cell leukemias to the list of diseases that are presumed to be related to exposure to Agent Orange. "Hundreds of Vietnam vets and their families in our area might qualify for medical care and disability benefits under the new rules," Kaptur said. "They are entitled to these benefits and we want to make sure that everyone who is eligible applies as soon as possible." For new claims, the VA may authorize up to one year of retroactive benefits if the veteran can show he or she has experienced one of those conditions since the date of the regulatory change. Kaptur noted that the new rules also apply to Vietnam vets who had their claims denied in the past. VA continues to review previously-filed claims that may qualify for retroactive benefits under a longstanding court order in the case of Nehmer vs. U.S. Veterans Administration. Survivors of veterans whose deaths might have been caused by one of the three diseases, Kaptur said, should file claims for dependency and indemnity compensation. She said potentially eligible veterans include those who were exposed based on duty or visitation in three locales: in Vietnam on its inland waterways between January 9, 1962 and May 7, 1975; along the demilitarized zone in Korea between April 1, 1968, and August 31, 1971; or at military bases where herbicides were tested or stored, both in the United States and overseas. Kaptur urged Vietnam veterans or survivors and family members to contact her office at 419-259-7500 or (800) 964-4699 if they have questions about the Agent Orange claims processing process. "I urge any Vietnam veteran from our area who is suffering from a medical condition due to Agent Orange exposure to contact the VA or my office," she said. Claims based on the three new presumptive conditions can also be filed on the Internet at https://www.fasttrack.va.gov/AOFastTrack/.
08.30.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced that the Toledo Police Department and the Lucas County Sheriff's office have received a federal award of $423,859 from the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program. Byrne grants are used by states and local government to support a broad range of crime-control activities based on local news and conditions. Grants funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice. The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council will coordinate all programmatic activities involving the grant. Click here to read about the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program.
08.29.2011	The New York Times has published a letter from Congresswoman Kaptur in which she promotes the creation of a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps as a way to create jobs. Congresswoman Kaptur’s letter responded to a Times editorial on August 15. She argues that “one proven way to create jobs in America” is to revive the CCC from the New Deal era. The CCC, she said, put almost 300,000 Americans to work within three months and proved to be one of the most effective and popular of the New Deal programs. She said investment in infrastructure produces much more “bang for the buck than tax credits and other arcane policy options…” Here is a copy of Congresswoman Kaptur’s letter about her legislation (H.R. 494) to create a modern-day Civilian Conservation Corps: To the Editor: One proven way to create jobs in America (“A Jobs Agenda Anyone,” editorial, Aug. 15) is to reprise the Civilian Conservation Corps, which was one of the most effective and most popular programs of the New Deal. I have introduced legislation (H.R. 494) that would create a modern-day C.C.C. to employ currently idled Americans, with returning unemployed veterans leading civilian teams of unemployed workers in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, repairing our damaged environment through tree planting and other conservation projects, and revitalizing local communities. Every dollar of investment in bricks, mortar, infrastructure and environment returns $1.59 to the economy. This is six times more “bang for the buck” than tax credits and other arcane policy options whose economic impact drain through the economy and yield only 30 cents for every dollar expended. Moreover, the 21st-century C.C.C. could be quickly mobilized to address the job crisis. Its predecessor was up and running and employing almost 300,000 Americans within three months. Rather than allowing the economy to stagnate and leaving our public assets to deteriorate, we can build our way out of this economic downturn. We simply need to remember one of the important lessons of the “greatest generation”: useful work transforms lives and builds our nation forward. MARCY KAPTUR Member of Congress, 9th Dist., Ohio Toledo, Ohio, Aug. 17, 2011 Click here to see a copy of her letter.
08.29.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur joined officials from the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority and local government to dedicate a new rail line that could spur economic development and job growth in Northern Ohio. "The federal, state and local partnership feels good. Industrial growth is the challenge of our country in the global economy. Multi-modal is our future in Northwest Ohio," Congresswoman Kaptur said. The so-called Ironville Terminal, an $18 million project, will transform approximately 70 acres along the Maumee River into a material handling center. "The development of Ironville Terminal has received a tremendous amount of support due mostly to the incredible potential this property has for commerce and job development," said Port Authority President Paul Toth. "This is the one project picked for support by the entire community, including state, local and federal governments." Toth said it required 10 years of effort to acquire the vacant property from Chevron that was home to a former Gulf Oil refinery from 1890 to 1987. Gulf Oil spent $19 million on remediation of the site, successfully completing the State of Ohio's Voluntary Action Program. The port authority purchased the property for $3.4 million in 2008, making it the largest land mass seaport on the Great Lakes.
08.26.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced that Dr. Rebecca Jean Whelan, an assistant professor of chemistry at Oberlin College, has received $345,000 from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) for research into detection and diagnosis of ovarian cancer. "Congratulations to Dr. Whelan for winning this competitive grant," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cancer among women in the United States and claims approximately 15,000 lives each year. "We're all rooting for Dr. Whelan and her team at Oberlin to learn how to detect this particularly deadly disease so that more women can survive." Dr. Whelan will oversee a three-year research project titled, "Development of Aptamer-Based Detection and Therapy Strategies for Ovarian Cancer." Aptamers are molecules that bind to a specific target molecule and thus help facilitate research. "The research that I'm engaged in now is invested in finding new ways of detecting ovarian cancer by looking at blood samples and searching within those blood samples for telltale indicators that the disease is present, even if it's at a very early stage," Dr. Whelan said in a video posted on the Oberlin College website, https://new.oberlin.edu. Dr. Whelan's funding comes from the Academic Research Enhancement Awards (AREA) program that is administered by the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The National Cancer Institute is part of the National Institutes of Health, which is one of 11 agencies that compose the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The NCI was established under the National Cancer Institute Act of 1937 and is the federal government's principal agency for cancer research and training.
08.08.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today praised the selection of the Wolf Creek wetlands restoration as the marquee project in the latest round of Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards, which were announced by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency senior advisor Cameron Davis at the Lake Erie Center in Oregon. "Wetlands construction means better water quality, better fishing, and ultimately more recreational opportunities for families in Northern Ohio," Kaptur said. "Lake Erie is not only an incomparable natural resource but a real driver of the regional economy." She noted the economic impact of the tourism, fishing, hunting and birding industries. Kaptur and Davis were joined for the announcement by University of Toledo President Lloyd Jacobs. The university will conduct the $1.35 million Wolf Creek wetlands restoration project, which represented the largest of 10 awards totaling approximately $30 million that were announced today. Today's projects were the first of 70 that will be funded under the GLRI in 2011. Wayne State University received an award of $498,000 for an early warning system for invasive species in Toledo Harbor. The Nature Conservancy received an award of $332,000 for Phragmites control on the western Lake Erie shoreline. Other projects announced today included: • Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Lake Erie nutrient reduction): $546,417 • Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (Cuyahoga River Area of Concern debris management system): $425,160 • Cleveland Metroparks (invasive plant control, Cuyahoga River Basin): $369,472 • Cleveland Metroparks (West Creek ecosystem restoration): $294,693 • Ohio EPA (fish deformity analysis): $177,688 • Delta Institute (Cleveland and Toledo e-waste reduction): $151,000 • Ohio EPA (Ohio Lake Erie Phosphorus Task Force): $122,429 FY 2011 awards will be published on the multi-agency website at www.glri.us.
08.02.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today welcomed the announcement that Social Security payments for August will be made on time and as scheduled. "Social Security payments are safe and sound and they will be made on time, as usual," said Kaptur, who returned to her district after a protracted legislative battle over the federal debt ceiling. "Social Security was the leading concern that citizens expressed to our offices in recent weeks. They will be happy to know that there will be no delay in payments," Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur said 118,000 people in the Ninth Congressional District receive Social Security payments under the Old Age Survivors and Disability Insurance program. She said the average beneficiary receives $1,086 per month. Another 19,100 recipients, most of them disabled, receive an average of $572 per month under the Supplemental Security Income program for low-income aged, blind or disabled persons. Social Security Commissioner Michael J. Astrue made the announcement today that Social Security payments will be made as scheduled on the regular dates of August 3, August 10, August 17 and August 24. Kaptur noted that Commissioner Astrue encouraged Social Security recipients to consider signing up for direct deposit. All current beneficiaries must switch to electronic payments before March 1, 2013.
07.29.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur released the following statement to mark the 46th anniversary of Medicare being signed into law: "Before Medicare was enacted 46 years ago when President Lyndon Johnson championed its passage, barely half of all American seniors had health care coverage. Today our nation has achieved health insurance coverage or all seniors, or "universal" coverage. Americans pay into Medicare their entire working lives for the ability to benefit from comprehensive health care coverage in their retirements. We must continue to protect this promise to the American people. That is why I have voted against the Republican budget plans to end Medicare and throw seniors back into the undependable, often unavailable, unaffordable, and cruel private insurance market that existed prior to Medicare. These plans endanger the reliable care and health security that 47 million Americans on Medicare enjoy today. I am fully committed to ensuring that the promise of Medicare will be there for future generations. Medicare for senior citizens is an equal benefit; it's a right for all, not just the privileged few."
07.27.2011	It's time for everybody to quit playing politics and put our country first. This debate over the debt ceiling is a disservice to the American people. No one is winning this Beltway debate, and the nation stands to lose. Putting our nation's credit rating at stake is dangerous and irresponsible. To allow America to default for the first time in its history would cause harm to every working family. Default would mean higher interest rates on cars, houses and student loans. It would mean fewer jobs and less growth. What's more, this debate is keeping us from dealing with the important issues: economic growth and job creation. The long-term solution to our fiscal problems is for our economy to grow and create jobs. But defaulting on our nation's bills will stifle economic growth and kill jobs. No question about that. The vast majority of the American people support the expiration of those tax preferences to the people at the very top. Everybody's got to pull forward. Congress should not leave Washington until we get this done—no weekends off, no August vacation. Click here to watch my speeches on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the debt ceiling and other policy priorities.
07.14.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur spoke in favor of solar energy as she sought to amend legislation that provides funds for the U.S. Department of Energy. Congresswoman Kaptur referred to solar energy as a growth industry in America, creating jobs and reducing America's dependence on imported petroleum. A recent Brookings Institution study found that Toledo ranks among the top 50 metropolitan areas in the country for "green jobs." Brookings said Toledo added almost 5,000 clean energy jobs between 2003 and 2010. "While the U.S. economy is anticipated to increase jobs by just two percent in the next year, in the solar industry that number is 26 percent," Kaptur said. Yet the appropriations measure cuts solar energy research and development by more than one third from last year and 60 percent below the president's request. The Kaptur Amendment would transfer $10 million from administrative expenses at the department to solar energy research and development. "Solar is a sector that is growing jobs in our country, despite what we face in terms of international global competition," Kaptur said. "As costs go down and production capacity grows, solar energy becomes a viable energy alternative to imported energy sources. "It is precisely because of our investments in this fledgling, cutting-edge industry that is high tech that such successes are possible. We cannot allow America to be complacent. Right now we are in competition to be the leader in this sector." Citing competition from China in the solar sector, Kaptur said the United States "must redouble our efforts, continue our investment in research and bring this market to scale in America." She said her amendment would "promote American industry and energy independence."
07.12.2011	Following on the heels of last week's federal award for new vehicles for TARTA, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced $1 million in federal funds for solar panels and solar equipment at the transit authority's main offices on Central Avenue. Kaptur said the $1 million was awarded by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), whose administrator, Peter M. Rogoff, visited Toledo last week to announce $3.49 million in new vehicles for TARTA's paratransit fleet. "Toledo is increasingly recognized as the solar capital of the Midwest, so this award is particularly fitting," said Kaptur. "It will not only help TARTA harness the power of the sun, but also lower its operating costs and reduce its carbon footprint." The funds will be used to install solar energy equipment and environmentally-friendly light fixture replacements at TARTA's administrative headquarters and bus garage. The equipment will enable TARTA to reduce long-term operating costs and lower its reliance on expensive electricity. Kaptur also said she is pleased that TARTA and the Arts Commission of Greater Toledo will collaborate on a visible and artistic solar structure on the exterior of the maintenance facility. Kaptur encouraged members of the public and local artists to become involved in making the appearance of the project as appealing as possible.
07.05.2011	The interest rate on subsidized student loans has been cut in half over the past four years, saving students and families thousands of dollars. Legislation that was passed by a Democratic-led Congress in 2007 resulted in four annual interest rate cuts, starting in July 2008 when the rate on subsidized student loans stood at 6.8 percent. The last of the four rate reductions took effect on July 1 and brought the interest rate down to 3.4 percent. "Making higher education more affordable must be a top priority for getting our economy back on track," said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Committee who voted in favor the College Cost Reduction and Access Act. "We cut the interest rate in half over a four-year period. As a result, the typical student borrower who will graduate from college next year will have saved $2,750 over the life of their loan." "Making college more affordable is one of the most important things we can do to invest in our nation's future and build a stronger middle class," Kaptur said. "Millions of students and their families take out subsidized loans each year and this legislation effectively lowers the eventual debt load for students with subsidized loans." Click here to read more about student aid programs.
07.01.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur helped kick off a capital campaign for the next phase of the successful Oneida Street greenhouse project. The campaign goal is to raise $271,000 to build a farm training center at the site. Young people from the community will themselves build the center, where they will then learn urban agriculture techniques, aquaculture, apiary science, gardening, and life skills. Two challenge grants, including one from The Andersons, Inc., will match other contributions in the early phase of the campaign. Click here to view a graphic rendition of the proposed facility.
07.01.2011	On June 27, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and other regional & local leaders welcomed Mr. Luc Peeters, Manager of Sustainability & External Relations at Mechelen Auctions of Belgium. During the day, they met to discuss ways local growers could maximize production and partner with local retailers. With concerns about food quality and increasing costs, many Americans are looking to buy locally grown produce; an opportunity where our local greenhouse industry hopes to increase their market share. Mr. Peeters explained how the Mechelen Auctions co-operative of over 2,500 gardeners work together to place their product with retailers in the region. The auction creates uniformity for prices, quality control and terms of payment that benefit both local growers and retailers. The co-operative auction generates over 200 Euros ($289 million dollars) per year. Congresswoman Kaptur, Mr. Peeters and many others from the community also visited the Oneida Street Gardens that day to kick-off efforts for a Toledo Grows urban training center.
06.30.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur held a telephone town hall meeting with constituents to discuss Social Security and Medicare. Click here to listen to the recording. (This recording may take a few minutes to download)
06.22.2011	Ms. Bowersox, the 2010 runnerup on American Idol, and Mr. Beebe, an entering freshman at St. John's Jesuit High School, lobbied Congresswoman Kaptur to support federal research into better treatments and a cure for type 1 diabetes. "Everyone knows someone with diabetes—a relative, a neighbor or a co-worker. We cannot rest until we find a solution to improve the quality of life for millions of people," said Kaptur. "It's not only the right thing to do—it will also save billions of dollars in medical care. I commend William and Crystal for carrying the cause of diabetes research to the highest levels." The "Children's Congress" is a biennial three-day event that brings together youth delegates from the around America to share their experiences and lobby federal officials. The delegates participated in a town hall meeting on Tuesday that featured testimonials diabetics from the sports world and entertainment industry who have overcome the challenges to flourish in their chosen fields. Bowersox, the Elliston native whose career as a musician skyrocketed after gaining national exposure on the FOX network, accompanied Mr. Beebe as delegates fanned out across Capitol Hill. Bowersox and the "Children's Congress" delegates told lawmakers about the personal impact that diabetes has made on their bodies and their lives. They urged Congresswoman Kaptur and other federal officials to take action to accelerate the regulatory process at the Food and Drug Administration for review of the artificial pancreas systems, which hold the promise of transforming the lives of type 1 diabetics. They also advocated for continued federal research and thanked Congress for renewing last December the Special Diabetes Program, which accounts for one third of all federal research into type 1. Type 1 diabetes is a potentially-fatal autoimmune disease that affects as many as three million children and adults in America. Until a cure if found, people with type 1 diabetes must test their blood sugar and give themselves insulin injections multiple times every day—or use an insulin pump. Even with such intensive care, insulin is no cure for diabetes, nor does it prevent complications that can include kidney failure, blindness, heart disease, stroke and amputation.
06.13.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur reminded area farmers they have until July 1 to apply for funding to a new water quality program under the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Eligible farmers can receive technical and financial assistance to implement conservation practices on their properties to help protect water quality in the Western Basin of Lake Erie. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will pay a portion of the costs of keeping sediment and nutrients out of the lake. “Millions of Ohioans depend on Lake Erie for drinking water and recreation,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Phosphate pollution and excessive sedimentation are issues that need to be addressed.” GLRI funding will be available to farmers through existing conservation initiatives such as the Environmental Quality Incentives Program and the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program. Deadline for signup is July 1. Although applications from farmers in the Lower Maumee and Sandusky watersheds will receive priority consideration, farmers in other counties are also encouraged to apply. Information is available at local NRCS offices and on the website at https://www.oh.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/GLRI/glri_10.html.
06.03.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed President Barack Obama to the Jeep plant in Toledo today to celebrate the comeback of the American automobile industry. “The president showed leadership at the crucial time when he made a consequential decision to extend a lifeline the American automobile industry,” Kaptur said. “The workers in this plant—I know this—can outcompete anybody on a level playing field.” President Obama referred to the Chrysler complex in north Toledo as “the economic rock of the community…What would life be like here in Toledo if you didn’t make these cars? Now, two years ago we came pretty close to finding out. We were still near the bottom of a vicious recession … that cost eight million jobs. And it hit this industry particularly hard… “We decided to do more than just rescue the industry from crisis. We decided to retool it for a new age.” “It was about you—your families, your jobs, your lives, your dreams…I placed my bet on you. I put my faith in the American worker … What you’ve done vindicates my faith.” “We have the best workers in the world,” Kaptur said, “and today is their day. Today they were rewarded for their hard work, innovation and sacrifice.” All three companies in the Big 3 are now turning profits, Obama said, and all three are gaining market share. “Chrysler has repaid every dime and more of what it owes the American taxpayer from the investment we made during my watch…I couldn’t be prouder of what you’ve done.”
06.02.2011	Speaking at a House Budget Committee hearing, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today blamed deregulation of the financial sector for the collapse of the housing market in the United States in 2008 and urged a congressional investigation into the crises at two prominent government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae, known formally as the Federal National Mortgage Association, and Freddie Mac, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, were placed into conservatorship in 2008 during the global financial crisis. "Who drove the meltdown in the housing sector?" asked Kaptur, a member of the Budget committee. "High-risk behavior in America's housing markets began during the early 1990s when deregulation of the private sector, which was pushed by some Members here in Congress, allowed the private sector to turn formerly-prudent loans into bonds, and then to securitize them into the international market in a manner that bore no relationship to their true value or to local real estate markets." She said the two GSEs were "not the ball carriers in this game of market manipulation—that was Wall Street—but they were very important receivers in this high-stakes hyperventilation of the mortgage market." She said deregulation, culminating in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, "unleashed the speculators" that eventually pulled the market under. She is the author of H.R. 1489, the Return to Prudent Banking Act of 2011, that would reinstate the provisions of Glass-Steagall legislation that prohibited banks from engaging in both commercial banking and investment banking. "For our nation to dig itself out of the worst housing depression since the Great Depression, we must go back and unwind what happened and restore prudent standards," she said. "I remember when the large commercial banks, and later speculative investment houses, applauded the demise of the staid thrift industry and its conservative mortgage lending practices as they hungrily sought after the housing market as a new national profit center," Kaptur stated. "The private sector soon discovered that home mortgages were sleepy instruments with a 30-year horizon and therefore didn't yield the quick paybacks of commercial loans. So the big banks, along with their minions in the origination, servicing and ratings industries, figure out how to inflate their returns." Looking back, she said, it is hard to understand how the industry could have placed so much faith in an untested private, global marketplace for housing finance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac then adopted high-risk practices themselves in becoming key agents to move this mortgage paper into international tranches.
05.24.2011	It's a great moment for those of us who care about making goods in America. We are celebrating an American success story. As we celebrate Chrysler's repayment of its loans to the government, we also remember that this outcome was not always guaranteed. Two years ago, Chrysler and General Motors were in danger of shutting their doors. President Obama and his leadership were absolutely critical. So many other people who are running for president totally opposed our efforts to save the American automobile industry. We were able to prevail because no great power should ever allow such an important industry to collapse. It's just too important to our industrial and defense base. And this region is the heart of American automotive production. It's nice to do something for America for a change. It really did make a difference for America, at a time when she needed us. Congratulations to Chrysler—management and workers. Congratulations for keeping your end of the bargain and paying back the loans ahead of schedule, with interest. We stand ready to forge ahead with you in building on the successes of the past 18 months and look forward to more good news in the future.
05.02.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur is urging Speaker John Boehner to allow the House of Representatives to vote on eliminating tax breaks for oil and gas companies. "Why should the taxpayer subsidize the same oil companies that are charging more than four dollars a gallon for gasoline?" said Congresswoman Kaptur. Kaptur said six large, integrated oil companies have reported more than $34 billion in profits for the first quarter of the year. Their net income increased between 16% (BP) and 69% percent (Exxon) during the first three months, compared to the same period a year ago. Meanwhile, gasoline prices in the Midwest have increased 28 percent in the past year, according to statistics from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, a federal agency. "Congress cannot simply stand by and do nothing," said Kaptur. "The oil companies are not only causing pain at the pump, but also endangering our economic recovery. "Just a few days ago, Speaker Boehner indicated he was open to vote on ending tax breaks for the giant oil companies. But something happened, and now's he backtracking. "Oil company lobbyists are telling Speaker Boehner they can't afford to give up their tax breaks. He should listen to the American people instead. They would tell him they can't afford gasoline at four dollars a gallon or more. "Speaker Boehner, let us vote." Click on the icon below to watch Congresswoman Kaptur's floor speech on America's dependence on foreign oil.
05.02.2011	America has been waiting almost a decade for this moment. It closes a major chapter in the struggle against those who attacked the United States. This effort owes so much to the thousands and thousands of soldiers who have died or been wounded since 9/11. We salute the courage and skills of those who carried out this operation. This is a long struggle and America must continue her vigilance, but I am glad this particular chapter is closed.
04.26.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur commended President Roy A. Church, faculty, staff and students at Lorain County Community College for being named one of the nation's top community colleges. "Lorain County Community College has always enjoyed a sterling reputation in Northern Ohio, as evidenced by increased enrollment, and now the recognition is national," said Congresswoman Kaptur, who represents western Lorain County. "LCCC is a jobs engine for Lorain County. The advanced technology center, the first in Ohio, puts LCCC at the forefront of efforts to create jobs and build a stronger economy. This is truly a well-deserved honor," Kaptur said. LCCC was the only institution in Ohio to be ranked among the top 120 community colleges in America. The non-profit Aspen Institute performed the ranking of community colleges throughout the country based in part on the percentage of students who graduate with an associate's degree or successfully transfer from their community colleges into four-year institutions.
04.07.2011	In our tender economy, where job creation should be our top priority, this flawed legislation moves us backwards. It gives no confidence to the markets that anyone here in the majority knows what they are doing. This bill is partial, it is short term, and it is a selective bill that leaves the vast majority of budget choices off the table. It is irresponsible. The American people are sick and tired of political antics. This bill is so flawed it leaves out the veterans who come home and can't get work and are lined up with their families at food banks across this country. This bill does nothing about reemploying them nor assuring their sustenance as employment and food commodity programs are left off the table. It omits decisions regarding food supplies to those pantries so essential to holding life together for our unemployed veterans as well as for millions of other Americans facing hard times. And what about those vets lined up to exercise their GI benefits at local community colleges? This resolution turns its back on 2011 educational funding at community colleges that are an essential reentry portal for returning veterans. So this bill is partial, selective and lopsided. What about those vets with disabilities who are lined up across our country to get adjudication? This resolution turns its back on them and those adjudication judges that also get paychecks from the government of the United States to do their job. Let me urge the majority to do what the American people sent us here to do, and that is to govern, to govern for all, to not leave anyone out, to not leave any veterans out, to not leave the vast majority of Americans out. I ask my colleagues to defeat this flawed resolution. Let us govern responsibly by addressing the entire budget, not just a slice of it.
03.30.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a federal award of $79,192 to the Perkins Township Fire Department under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The grant is dedicated to operations and safety at the department. "This is wonderful news for Perkins Township," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect lives and property. This federal assistance is crucial, particularly during these challenging times. I will continue to push for this funding to ensure the safety of the brave men and women who serve the public." Perkins Township Fire Department delivers fire, emergency medical and emergency response services with a staff of 24 full-time and 19 part-time employees out of fire stations on Campbell Street and Milan Road. Congresswoman Kaptur said the AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of the first-responder personnel. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
03.30.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a federal award of $34,200 to the Sylvania Township Fire Department under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The grant is dedicated to operations and safety at the department. "This is wonderful news for Sylvania Township," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect lives and property. This federal assistance is crucial, particularly during these challenging times. I will continue to push for this funding to ensure the safety of the brave men and women who serve the public. They deserve our full support." Congresswoman Kaptur said the AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
03.16.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a federal award of $54,117 to the Oberlin Fire Department for operations and safety. Funding was made available through the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Eligible uses for the grant money are training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. "Congratulations to Chief (Dennis) Kirin and the department for winning this federal award," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The community of Oberlin and the neighboring area depend on the department to protect lives and property every day of the year." The Oberlin Fire Department responds to approximately 800 incidents a year in the city and township. The department operates two engines, two rescue units, a pumper-tanker, an aerial tower, a grass fire unit, and a special rescue team. The AFG program funds fire departments and emergency medical service operations throughout the country to enhance response capabilities and support first responder activities. The program has provided approximately $4.6 billion in grants to first-responder organizations since 2001. In 2007, the Oberlin department received a $382,000 grant to purchase a mobile "live fire simulator" for use in firefighter training. During the recent budget battles in the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Kaptur joined a bipartisan effort to restore funding to the AFG grant program and to support local firefighters and emergency personnel. She voted in favor of an amendment by Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) to restore $510 million for fire grants. The House vote was 388-113 (186-6 among Democrats and 132-107 among Republicans).
03.15.2011	Appearing on C-Span's Washington Journal call-in program, Congresswoman Kaptur said Congress should focus on creating jobs and eliminating tax preferences for large corporations. "We need a growth economy. We need jobs in America to have a robust economy that can produce the revenue to pay the bills," she said. By focusing only on discretionary spending, she said, Congress makes meaningful deficit reduction "a mathematical impossibility." Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of both the Appropriations and Budget committees in the House, said Congress should address the trade deficit and Wall Street conduct. "We are not dealing with trade issues, holding Wall Street accountable, and how to make things in America again. "Corporate profits are at an all time high, but Congress isn't focused on that. Not the big picture. We're looking at the short end of the telescope." Kaptur was joined on the program through Skype by students at West Phoenix (Arizona) High School. On other topics, she said: • Defense cuts should be on the table in budget negotiations. She repeatedly citing military contracting as an area where cuts could be made. • A proposal by Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) to pass a defense appropriations bill separately from the rest of the budget "puts them in a special category," which would make it more difficult to pass any measure to prevent a government shutdown. • A no-fly zone over Libya should be considered, but emphasized engaging other partners in the region to address the political crisis in North Africa. • U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan is desirable, but Afghan security must be sufficient to hold the areas not currently under Taliban control. • Premium increases on Tricare benefits for retired military personnel should be opposed. "I am not favorable toward scrimping and trying to hurt anyone once they've rotated out of active service."
03.14.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today outlined steps that constituents can take to find information about U.S. citizens and others in earthquake-stricken Japan. Anyone with concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in Japan should send an e-mail to JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov. Anyone with concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in the Tsunami zone outside of Japan should send an e-mail to PacificTsunamiUSC@state.gov. E-mail inquiries are strongly preferred, but constituents may call the Department of State's emergency assistance center at 888-407-4747, if they are unable to use e-mail. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that all U.S. military personnel in Japan have been accounted for, with no reports of injuries. However, if family members of Department of Defense personnel wish to inquire about loved ones, they should call 800-342-9647. Inquiries about Japanese citizens should be made to the Japanese Embassy in Washington, D.C. (202-238-6700). Inquiries about citizens of a third country should call that nation's embassy or consulate. Contact information is available at www.travel.state.gov. Information about the situation in Japan can also be obtained at www.travel.state.gov and https://japan.usembassy.gov. The U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy and consulates in Japan are working to obtain information on the status of U.S. citizens and provide emergency assistance to U.S. citizens. As of this morning, no U.S. citizens have been reported as injured or killed in the earthquake. Although telephone lines are disrupted, relatives may want to try contacting loved ones in Japan by e-mail, text (SMS) message, or other social media.
03.08.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur has issued a reminder: the deadline for eligible service members, veterans and their beneficiaries to apply for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay has been extended to March 18, allowing personnel more time to apply for benefit they might have earned under the program guidelines. The deadline extension was included in the continuing resolution signed by President Obama, providing funding for federal government operations. The Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay was established to compensate for the hardships military members encountered when their service was involuntarily extended under Stop Loss Authority between Sept. 11, 2001, and Sept. 30, 2009. Eligible members or their beneficiaries may submit a claim to their respective military service in order to receive the benefit of $500 for each full or partial month served in a Stop Loss status. When the Stop Loss Special Pay began on Oct. 21, 2009, an estimated 145,000 service members, veterans and beneficiaries qualified for the benefit. Because most of those potential recipients had separated from the military, the service branches have engaged in extensive and persistent outreach efforts, including the news media, direct mail, engaging military and veteran service organizations, and social networks. To apply for more information, or to gather more information on Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay, including submission requirements and service-specific links, go to https://www.defense.gov/stoploss.
02.24.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today congratulated General Motors Corporation and its workers on staging a successful comeback from bankruptcy. The company today reported net income of $4.7 billion and automotive cash flow of $6.6 billion for the 2010 calendar year. It was GM's first profitable year since 2004. "Northern Ohio well understands how vital a thriving U.S. motor vehicle industry is to America's economy, good jobs, and our nation's defense," said Kaptur, who supported the automotive rescue plan in Congress in 2008. General Motors is a major employer in the area, having invested approximately half a billion dollars in Toledo Transmission plant in 2006. "General Motors certainly had a good year," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "They launched a competitive product line, including the fuel-efficient Cruze, posted four consecutive quarters of profitability, and completed a $23 billion initial public offering. The workers have made sacrifices and contributed to the turnaround in a dramatic way and we wish them all the best going forward." The company announced that as a result of its 2010 performance, it will pay profit sharing to approximately 45,000 eligible hourly employees. The average payout per employee will be approximately $4,300. The House of Representatives, over strong Republican opposition, approved $14 billion in bridge loans to the U.S. automakers in December 2008. (The House vote was 237-170; the Ohio delegation was divided, with nine members voting in favor, eight opposed, and one absent.) In addition to providing bridge loans, the legislation would have given the auto companies additional time to negotiate with creditors and the United Auto Workers union on additional concessions. President George W. Bush extended a $17.4 billion lifeline to the U.S. auto industry in mid-December 2008 and General Motors received $30 billion in debtor-in-possession financing when it filed for bankruptcy in June 2009.
02.23.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur today announced a $261,250 federal award to the South Amherst Fire Department in Lorain County for vehicle acquisition. Funding was made available through the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. "Congratulations to South Amherst for winning the grant competition," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This federal assistance will help the department continue protecting lives and property." The South Amherst fire department and emergency medical service personnel respond to approximately 25 calls a month. The department consists of 29 volunteers. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security. It funds fire departments and emergency medical service operations throughout the country to enhance response capabilities and support first responder activities. During the protracted budget battle in the House of Representatives last week, Congresswoman Kaptur joined a bipartisan effort to restore funding to the AFG grant program and to support local firefighters and emergency personnel. Congresswoman Kaptur voted in favor of an amendment by Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-N.J.) to restore $510 million for fire grants. The House vote was 388-113 (186-6 among Democrats and 132-107 among Republicans). Only two members of the 18-member Ohio delegation voted against the Pascrell amendment. The program has provided approximately $4.6 billion in grants to first-responder organizations since 2001.
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced a federal award of $65,601 to the Springfield Township Fire Department in Holland under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. “This award will greatly assist the department in its mission to protect lives and property,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Since 2001, the Department of Homeland Security has awarded $4.6 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to provide much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protection equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and also training under the AFG program.
02.08.2011	The generosity of two Toledo women brought some warmth to the residents of the Ohio Veterans Home in Sandusky. Congresswoman Kaptur visited the Veterans Home with two outstanding volunteers, seamstress Yvonne Curate and retired nurse Mary Gregory, to distribute blankets free of charge to the veterans. Each blanket was handmade and adorned with the words, "Welcome Home" and "Thank You." "What a wonderfully kind gesture on the part of Yvonne and Mary," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The veterans were so appreciative. You could see it in their faces, just knowing that someone had taken all that time to honor them and show they cared." The Ohio Veterans Home in Sandusky has operated for 122 years with the mission of "Serving Those Who Served." Click here to go to their website.
01.27.2011	The United Nations has designated January 27 as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. The date also marks the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Nazi death camp. This annual day of commemoration is an opportunity to honor the memory of Holocaust victims. International Holocaust Remembrance Day should be commemorated by every American. All of us should redouble our commitment to making sure that these atrocities are never forgotten and never again allowed to happen. Click here to read more about the Holocaust.
01.20.2011	Six Projects Nationally Recognized for Capturing Methane Gas for Use as Alternative Energy Congresswoman Kaptur today congratulated the city of Toledo for receiving a national award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for the Hoffman Road landfill project, which captures methane gas for use as renewable energy. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson said the Hoffman Road facility is one of six methane capture projects to receive the 2011 award at the 14th annual Landfill Methane Outreach Conference in Baltimore, Md. "The EPA is right to recognize the potential of this projects to create jobs, help us achieve energy independence, and reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions," said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. The genesis of the Hoffman project occurred in 2003 when Congresswoman Kaptur secured $1.6 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to begin construction. EPA has assisted with more than 490 landfill gas energy projects over the past 16 years, transforming waste into a green community asset. Landfill gas electricity generation projects have a capacity of 1,680 megawatts and provide the energy equivalent of powering almost one million homes annually as a clean energy source. The U.S. currently has approximately 540 operational landfill gas energy projects. Methane, a primary component of landfill gas, is a greenhouse gas with more than 20 times the global warming potential of carbon dioxide. Using landfill gas has several benefits: it provides a significant energy resource, prevents greenhouse gas emissions, and reduces odors and other hazards associated with emissions. This year's winning projects, EPA officials said, will avoid the emissions of 165,600 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The reduction is equivalent to the annual greenhouse gas emissions from more than 31,600 passenger vehicles or the carbon dioxide emissions from 385,200 barrels of oil consumed. The direct-use projects will use 830 standard cubic feet per minutes and the electricity-generation projects total 13.3 megawatts of generation capacity. Other awardees are: Montgomery Regional Solid Waste Authority Small Engine Project, Christiansburg, Va.; Frederick County Electricity Project, Winchester, Va.; Crow Wing County Small On-Site LFG Boiler Project, Brainerd, Minn.; and, Newton County Renewable Energy Park LFG Direct-Use Project, Brook, Ind. Escambia County (Pensacola, Florida) was named the community partner of the year at the conference.
01.19.2011	Congresswoman Kaptur has again earned assignments to both the Appropriations and Budget committees for the 112th Congress following official actions taken by the Democratic leadership. Kaptur, who is serving her fifteenth term in the House, ranks 23rd in seniority among 435 members. She is the longest-serving woman in the House and the senior-most of Ohio's 18 members. Kaptur will rank second to Ranking Member Norm Dicks (D-Wash.) on the powerful Appropriations Committee. She will again serve on the defense subcommittee, ranking fourth among Democrats. She is the first woman to serve on the defense subcommittee. She will be the third-ranking Democrat on the transportation, housing and urban development subcommittee and the fourth-ranking Democrat on the agriculture subcommittee. Congresswoman Kaptur will again serve on the House Budget Committee, where she ranks third. She is also co-chair of the Congressional Jobs Now! Caucus.
01.10.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur has issued the following statement about the shooting incident in Tucson, Arizona over the weekend: "Our thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords, her family, and her constituents in the Eighth Congressional District of Arizona. We pray for her recovery and the recovery of all those who suffer following this senseless attack. "Our condolences go out to the families of those who were killed."Our nation must never give in to those who preach hatred and intolerance. "We must condemn in the strongest terms anyone who advocates or resorts to violence. It simply has no place in our society."
01.05.2011	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives, will participate in today’s opening session of the 112th Congress, including the installation of fellow Ohioan John Boehner as the 53rd Speaker of the House. Congresswoman Kaptur, the dean of the Ohio Democratic delegation, will serve as a member of the escort committee that will accompany Mr. Boehner to the chair of the House. As senior woman in the House, she will also serve as the chief Democratic tally clerk as members of the House formally vote to elect a new speaker. Mr. Boehner will be the third speaker of the House from the state of Ohio. J. Warren Keifer, a lawyer from Clark County, served as speaker in the 74th Congress and Nicholas J. Longworth, a Cincinnatian, served as speaker in the sixty-ninth through seventy-first Congresses (1925-1931). Kaptur, who wore a red and gray corsage adorned with buckeyes to celebrate the occasion, is beginning her 15th term in Congress. She said the 112th Congress should put Heartland values forward, setting partisan differences aside to rebuild the American economy and preserve liberty. “I was honored to be chosen as a member of the escort committee,” Kaptur said. “We thank the Speaker-elect for reserving special chairs in the chamber for the Ohio delegation. Ohio welcomes the attention! Importantly, today, we are united, as Ohioans and Americans, as we celebrate the peaceful transition of power in the House of Representatives,” Kaptur said. “We all wish Speaker Boehner Godspeed in the days ahead as we address the weighty challenges facing our nation. In America, as in Ohio, all things are indeed possible.”
12.22.2010	The deadline for eligible service members, veterans and their beneficiaries to apply for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay (RSLSP) has been extended to March 4, 2011, allowing personnel more time to apply for the benefits they've earned under the program guidelines. The deadline extension is included in the continuing resolution signed by President Obama today, providing funding for federal government operations through March 4, 2011. "There was a surge of applicants as we approached our earlier deadline, but there may still be more out there who have yet to apply," said Lernes Hebert, director, Officer and Enlisted Personnel Management. "We are pleased that this extension was included in the continuing resolution which will give those remaining the opportunity to apply as we continue to work through the current applications." The RSLSP was established to compensate for the hardships military members encountered when their service was involuntarily extended under Stop Loss Authority between Sept. 11, 2001, and Sept. 30, 2009. Eligible members or their beneficiaries may submit a claim to their respective military service in order to receive the benefit of $500 for each full or partial month served in a Stop Loss status. When RSLSP began on Oct. 21, 2009, the services estimated 145,000 service members, veterans and beneficiaries were eligible for this benefit. Because the majority of those eligible had separated from the military, the services have engaged in extensive and persistent outreach efforts over the past 14 months. Outreach efforts including direct mail, engaging military and veteran service organizations, social networks and media outlets, will continue through March 4, 2011. To apply for more information, or to gather more information on RSLSP, including submission requirements and service-specific links, go to https://www.defense.gov/stoploss.
12.03.2010	“Moreover, the continued diversification of the strategic metals in Brush Wellman’s product line is essential to our region’s leadership role in this vital sector. The collaboration between AEM and Brush Engineered Materials is a win-win for our communities, both Amherst and Elmore, and also for our nation.” The Army said approximately three fourths of the production work will be performed at the Brush Wellman beryllium manufacturing plant in Elmore, Ohio (73 percent), with the remainder performed at the Picatinny Arsenal in New Jersey. The engineering on the project will be performed in Amherst. American Engineering & Manufacturing, formed in 2002, manufactures products and develops technology for various defense and commercial applications. The company specializes in engineering design services, prototyping, product packaging designs, and logistical support. Brush Wellman, headquartered in Mayfield Heights, operates its Elmore plant through its subsidiary Brush Engineered Materials, Inc., supplying highly-engineering advanced enabling materials, including special metals, beryllium, beryllium alloys and beryllium composites. Its flagship manufacturing facility in Elmore began operations in 1953. Atomized magnesium powder is used in many applications by the military, including tracers and flares, infrared countermeasures to protect aircraft from heat-seeking missiles, and pyrotechnic munitions that can be detonated at a specific, delayed time. Estimated contract completion date is May 2, 2014.
12.03.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur issued this statement following the Department of Labor's report of the November unemployment rate: "Congress and the Administration have to attack the jobs crisis in America. We have a deficit reduction commission, but what we really is need is a job growth commission. Job creation must be the top priority of the government. Congress seems to be dealing with everything except job creation right now."
12.01.2010	"The Toledo refinery has been selected to process this massive new source of petroleum into gasoline and other fuels. This will lock in our region’s position as a key player in the transportation fuels industry in North America." Kaptur said she has been in close contact with both the company and the Canadian government in recent months as the project moved toward fruition. "Working with our Canadian neighbors is particularly rewarding as we share the same democratic values and respect for a transparent legal system." BP in 2007 announced a 50-50 joint venture with Husky Energy, Inc. to develop the Sunrise site and process the crude in Toledo. The project has been complicated by various factors, but is now “moving ahead full throttle,” Kaptur said, “and that’s good news for us.” The London-based Financial Times said yesterday that “BP has argued that it can make the economics of Sunrise work by integrating it with the Toledo refinery, which can be optimized to make the best use of oil from that source.”
12.01.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur also said: • Tax benefits to corporations should be conditioned on keeping jobs in the United States. She pointed to a tax compromise proposal that she made with Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) to extend the tax cuts for small businesses that might be subject to the top two tax brackets if they certify that they are manufacturing in the U.S., hiring only American citizens, and generally buying domestic content goods and materials. • “We need a timeout on trade agreements and we need to renegotiate” agreements such as NAFTA. She said trade agreements should prohibit partner countries from using environmental and labor laws for competitive advantage. She said the nation’s deficit, which will exceed $400 billion this year, is quashing domestic growth. “NAFTA is a framework that doesn’t work for us as a country. Certain industries benefit, but if you look at the trade deficit that our nation has accumulated since NAFTA’s passage in 1993, it’s over a trillion dollars in the red…Our ability to grow is severely hampered by this inundation of imports from very low-wage, undemocratic places.” She again called for a bipartisan coalition that includes freshman Republicans in the House to change the framework of the proposed U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. • “Everything should be on the table” as congressional leaders and the administration search for possible budget cuts. • “Our Republic is at risk because of what is happening with unlimited amounts of money being put into campaigns…The most important action Congress could take would be to reform campaign finance.” • The 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial banking from investment banking for 66 years, created “a great moral hazard into our banking system and we are still suffering from that.”
11.30.2010	“The recovery must reach deeper to lift workers and families that have been impacted by the current recession. We must reverse the trend toward outsourcing of good jobs. The winning strategy is to ‘Invent in America’ and ‘Make and Grow It in America Again.’ “The recession that began in 2007 has hollowed out the jobs base of our regional economy. We need innovative policies to repair our infrastructure, develop clean sources of energy, and capitalize on our strengths in manufacturing, transportation, value-added agriculture, and natural resources. “I look forward to representing our members from the nation’s heartland on the Steering and Policy Committee.” Kaptur represents Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District, which includes all of Ottawa and Erie counties and parts of Lucas and Lorain counties.
11.24.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur said many of the young people who are processed in the juvenile justice system suffer from mental illness. “We simply have to do a better job in this community of dealing with juvenile mental illness,” she said. “We want to get to these young people early, before they are trafficked, and rescue them from surviving couch to couch,” said Rev. Anthony, whose organization administers “Second Chance,” which provides comprehensive services to victims of domestic sex trafficking.
11.15.2010	Among the resources available to explore these options: • Internet: The web site, www.medicare.gov, which offers a personalized comparison of costs and coverage of the plans available in their area through the Medicare Plan Finder and Medicare Options Compare tools. • Telephone: Call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) for around-the-clock assistance. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. Multilingual information and counseling is available. • Printed material: the 2011 Medicare & You handbook is available by calling Congresswoman Kaptur’s office or by visiting www.medicare.gov. • Personal assistance: one-on-one counseling from the local State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP). Local SHIP contact information can be obtained by calling 1-800-MEDICARE. Under Medicare’s Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition (NET) program, Medicare beneficiaries who cannot meet the costs of prescription drugs might be eligible for additional resources. Based on eligibility for “extra help,” some people Medicare will pay no more than $2.50 for each generic drug and no more than $6.30 for each name brand drug. The NET program can also help pay for premiums and other out-of-pocket costs. There is no cost to apply for this extra help. Medicare beneficiaries, family members, trusted counselors or caregivers can apply online at www.socialsecurity.gov/prescriptionhelp or call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY users should call 1-800-325-0778) to find out more. Congresswoman Kaptur said the new health care law also provides better tools to help fight waste, fraud and abuse to help protect Medicare. Beneficiaries should not give personal information to anyone arriving to their home uninvited or making unsolicited phone calls selling Medicare-related products or services. Beneficiaries who believe they are a victim of fraud or identity theft should contact 1-800-MEDICARE or visit www.stopmedicarefraud.gov. More information is available at www.healthcare.gov.
11.10.2010	For more information about Veterans Day, click here.
10.29.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur made a statement at the first hearing held by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) in Sandusky on the electric rate hikes experienced by her constituents, many of whom are retired and living on a fixed income. Click here to read the Congresswoman’s statement.
10.28.2010	
10.22.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur said Oberlin College will conduct a comprehensive, district-wide assessment of energy infrastructure and alternative energy transmission under the guidance of the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL). NETL is a federally-owned and operated laboratory that advances energy options to fuel the American economy, strengthen national security, and improve our environment. Kaptur said the immediate winners will be ratepayers and citizens in four communities—Oberlin, Wellington, Oak Harbor and Elmore—which will partner with Oberlin College to incorporate clean energy into their electric grids and diversify their power bases with alternative energy sources. “The Department of Energy has recognized our region as a national leader in the development of clean energy,” Kaptur said. “Ratepayers will benefit, too, in the long term. The partnership between the college and these four communities represents an important step forward for our region as we create a clean energy future and create jobs through innovation.” Kaptur said the study will include the current energy demand in communities throughout the Ninth Congressional District, financial and regulatory barriers to sustainable energy production, farm waste and its potential as an energy source, and potential farm business opportunities for Northern Ohio as we transition to sustainable energy sources. Oberlin College, she said, will also study solar energy feasibility and sustainable energy opportunities for the city as well as potential options for converting the college’s current central heating plan to biomass or another alternative energy source. A Technology Advisory Committee will guide the studies that help frame the assessments and place the findings in a national context. As part of the project, the award will also support a series of projects in Wellington, Oak Harbor and Elmore, which as part of the American Municipal Power (AMP) network. AMP will act as the project coordinator on behalf of member communities. Funding will allow the following communities to undertake the following activities: Wellington will develop a solar recharging station for an electric service vehicle to read and service electric meters. Also, almost all the pole-mounted street lamps in the village will be retrofitted with LED (light-emitting diodes) illumination. Department of Energy studies have confirmed significant savings to taxpayers in maintenance and energy costs by retrofitting (Oakland, California study, 2008) Elmore will upgrade its aging energy substation, making it more reliable and also safer for workers and residents; and, Oak Harbor will upgrade its distribution circuit and install approximately 350 LED/HID (high-intensity discharge) lighting fixtures, creating an estimated energy savings of more than 50 percent for the village. A public power community, Oak Harbor currently serves more than 1,460 customers through its electric department. Congresswoman Kaptur said the studies will also help identify additional economic development opportunities as the region makes the transition to sustainable energy.
10.01.2010	U.S. Agriculture Secretary Thomas J. Vilsack said production losses in 41 Ohio counties warranted the disaster declaration due to the combined effects of varying periods of excess rain and drought, tornadoes and high winds, flooding, flash flooding, hail and freeze and frost during the period of April 1-August 3. An additional 38 Ohio counties were named contiguous disaster counties. Possible assistance includes Farm Service Agency emergency loans and Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments (SURE). Farmers in the designated counties will have eight months from the date of the declaration to apply for emergency loan assistance. FSA will consider each emergency loan on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses, security available, and repayment ability. SURE program applications for 2010 crop losses will be accepted in 2011 when the 2010 farm revenue data becomes available. Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations agriculture subcommittee, noted that one in seven Ohioans is employed in the food and agriculture industry. She said the industry contributes almost $100 billion a year to the state’s economy. Ohio's top commodities include soybeans, corn, wheat, eggs, tomatoes and cucumbers. Kaptur said farmers should contact their local FSA office for more information or go online to https://www.fsa.usda.gov.
10.01.2010	Healthcare.gov has more than 4,400 private plans offered by over 200 insurers, across all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The number of plans are expected to increase in the coming months. Click here for a tutorial on how to use this health insurance comparison tool. Click here to watch a webcast from the Department of Health and Human Services describing the new tool. Click here to use the private health insurance comparison tool. Hopefully, you will find that this new health insurance tool provides the information you need to select the best health insurance plan for you and your family.
09.20.2010	In technical terms, the agency will award “a presumption of service connection” for: • Ischemic heart disease • Parkinson’s disease • All chronic B cell leukemias, such as hairy cell leukemia In practical terms, Congresswoman Kaptur said that Vietnam veterans who have a "presumed" illness need not prove an association between their medical problems and their military service. By helping veterans overcome evidentiary requirements that might otherwise present significant challenges, this "presumption" simplifies and speeds up the application process, so that the veterans receive any benefits they deserve. Congresswoman Kaptur estimated that more than 500 veterans in the Ninth Congressional District will either submit Agent Orange claims over the next 18 months or resubmit previously-denied claims that will be reviewed by the VA for service connection for the three conditions. She said this historic regulation will be implemented after a 60-day congressional review process that will be completed in late October. After which, the VA will begin providing benefits for new claims and may award benefits retroactively for earlier periods. Congresswoman Kaptur encourages all Vietnam veterans with these three diseases to contact her office at (800) 964-4699 or the VA at 1-888-GIBILL1 for assistance in applying for access to VA health care and compensation, so the VA can begin development of their claims.
09.15.2010	Washington DC – U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur’s (D-OH) bill, H.R. 2039, the Congressional Made in America Promise Act, passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 371-36. The bill will extend Buy American Act requirements for federal agencies to apply to the legislative branch and aims to ensure that products purchased by the U.S. House of Representatives and the United States Senate are American-made. “Our nation has been losing millions and millions of good jobs to foreign outsourcing while America has become more and more dependent on imported goods,” said Rep. Kaptur. “It seems almost everything one buys has a sticker or a label designating it was made just about anywhere but in America – China, India, Malaysia -- or some other country. Outsourced production translates into lost jobs,” she continued. “The number of jobs lost to Americans as a result of the trade deficit is staggering. It is felt in every corner of America and certainly in my home state of Ohio. This year alone, the trade deficit has cut GDP growth by three points, to just over 1.5 percent. So, when an avalanche of imports dwarfs our exports, the bottom line is lost jobs, lost income, a diminishing middle class, and sluggish economic growth,” said Kaptur. “This legislation – H.R. 2039 – sets a clear standard and will bring about a change in practices. Business as usual and bad trade deals have brought this country to near economic calamity. We must restore manufacturing in America and start right here by raising the consciousness of the Legislative Branch of our federal government. Today, we send a clear message: it is time we make goods in America again and get our people back to work,” Kaptur said. “This nation grew its way out of the Great Depression and we can build and grow our way out of this Great Recession by buying goods made in our nation. Congress will once and for all get serious about leading America forward and use its buying power to support jobs and manufacturing in America,” Kaptur concluded.
09.13.2010	“This is great testimony of the excellence of our Library system, which provides so many community services,” said Director Scoles. “The new computer center and mobile unit will reach out to so many people who otherwise could not afford high-speed Internet and computer training. This will improve the lives for residents of Lucas County.” “I am excited for the residents of Lucas County,” said Margaret Danziger, Deputy Director. “This is a win-win situation for the Library, local partners and the community.” Working with Congresswoman Kaptur’s office, the Toledo-Lucas County Public Library applied to National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) for an ambitious project that includes the following initiatives: Major expansion of the Kent Branch Library in central Toledo into a public computer center. Working in partnership with community institutions, the public computer center will provide enhanced computer capability for job training, health awareness and computer literacy—with a focus on unemployed workers in the manufacturing sector who have been hard hit by the recession. A mobile computer center. In the spirit of the iconic “Bookmobile,” the newly-constructed mobile unit will extend the library’s Outreach Services by delivering free education and training classes, including one-on-one instruction in basic computer skills, Internet use, job search, healthcare and preventive care awareness, and e-mail account management. Expanded training for small business owners and would-be startup companies. Reflecting concerns over the community’s economic future, the library will conduct classes for small business owners and others who are interested in starting their own companies. Proposed class topics include business plan development, finance, health and safety regulations, and practical help in starting a small business. A key course offering will teach patrons about job searches, interviewing skills, educational opportunities, and public benefits. The project proposes to deploy approximately 109 new work stations and upgrade approximately 23 additional computers, increasing public access to computer centers by up to 36 hours weekly and accommodating an additional 240 weekly users. Also, it will provide computer training to as many as 18,000 residents with up to 36,000 hours of teacher-lead training annually over the life of the project. Congresswoman Kaptur said the application recognizes that public libraries today are “more than buildings with books and movies—they’re community centers. They’re the places people come to get help writing resumes and looking for jobs, learn about health care options, contact the Social Security Administration, and make application for veterans benefits.” “This initiative will build a bridge across the ‘digital divide’ in our community by making broadband vastly more accessible in under-served neighborhoods,” she added. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) provided a total of $7.2 billion to NTIA and the Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service to fund projects that will expand access to and adoption of broadband services. NTIA is utilizing approximately $4 billion of that funding for the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP), which provides grants to support the deployment of broadband infrastructure, enhance and expand public computer centers, and encourage sustainable adoption of broadband service. Home to the fifth largest book collection in the state of Ohio, the award-winning Toledo-Lucas County Public Library offers a wide range of resources to the public, including classes for children and adults, computer training and Internet access, and space for community meetings.
09.13.2010	The Toledo Farmers Market, traditionally a summertime venture, will be open this winter after of the construction of new bay enclosures, full-heating units, a new drainage system, streamlined platforms, updated restrooms, and a new office to conduct business. Congresswoman Kaptur helped secure a federal award of approximately $270,000 for the project from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development via the Economic Development Initiative. The Toledo Farmers Market accepts the Ohio Direction Card, making fresh products available for those who receive SNAP & WIC benefits, but also for seniors who participate in the successful Senior Farmer’s Market Coupon Program, which Congresswoman Kaptur pioneered a decade ago and has now been replicated around the country. “Having locally-grown nutritious food available for our seniors and our at-risk population is vital to the well-being of our entire community. My hope is accessibility will increase to these groups due to the extended season,” Kaptur relayed. Kaptur noted that more than 70 vendors offer their products at various times throughout the summer. The economic impact is substantial both for local producers as well as people who work and live downtown. “The completion of this project, slated for December, also marks continuous improvements in the heart of the Warehouse District. Through hard work and dedication, we continually rebuild this part of the city, as we go about rebuilding our community and America one step at a time,” Kaptur said.
09.08.2010	The University of Toledo will study the feasibility of tile drain caps as a way to reduce contamination of waterways by contaminants from biosolids that are applied to farm fields in northwest Ohio. Another project ($250,000) will enhance plant and wildlife habitat in western Lake Erie through the beneficial use of dredged sediment. The Toledo Harbor Sediment Management Plan will also be completed, resulting in detailed plans to manage all material that is dredged from the Toledo Harbor shipping channels. A third project, totaling $168,000, will reforest Maumee Bay State Park in Lucas County and Mary Jane Thurston State Park, which is located on the south bank of the Maumee in both Henry and Wood counties. The ash tree populations at both parks have been decimated by an invasive species, the emerald ash borer. At least 500 replacement trees are needed to replace damaged trees that have been removed at Maumee Bay State Park.
09.08.2010	Established in September 2004 when the first 11 packages went out at Christmas time, HIA now has provided thousands packages to date. “When Heroes in Action can offer a thoughtful gift or tribute they encourage our soldiers; they remind them that they are loved and that they are supported from home,” said Kaptur. They also support and honor veterans and the families of active military service by providing food baskets, clothes, household need, home & auto repairs, encouragement, support or whatever help they can deliver.
08.30.2010	More beneficiaries will receive checks in the coming months as they enter the coverage gap, Congresswoman Kaptur said. Eligible beneficiaries get the checks automatically when they reach the “donut hole,” and need not sign up in order to receive the rebates. They are receiving these benefits because of the health care law Congress passed to strengthen Medicare, lower costs for seniors, and give seniors more control over their medical care. “Congressional Republicans have voted to repeal this law and undercut Medicare by making it a voucher system,” Kaptur said. “We should focus on closing the donut hole once and for all and making Medicare stronger.” Rebate checks will help people with their drug costs this year. Starting in January, those who fall into the donut hole will receive a 50 percent discount on covered brand name medications while in the donut hole. Every year, the amount Medicare beneficiaries pay in cost sharing will decrease significantly until the coverage gap is closed. The law also provides new benefits to Medicare beneficiaries, including free preventive care services such as mammograms and certain colon cancer tests and a free annual physical starting in 2011 in Original Medicare. Additionally, seniors can expect to save on average almost $200 per year in premiums by 2018 compared to what they would have paid without the new law. Most beneficiaries will also see a significant reduction in their Medicare coinsurance as a result of the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act also contains important new tools to help crack down on criminals seeking to scam seniors and steal taxpayer dollars. HHS and the Department of Justice are collaborating on fraud prevention by bringing together law enforcement experts, providers and seniors to help utilize these new tools to fight fraud and protect seniors. The Affordable Care Act strengthens the screenings for health care providers who want to participate in Medicaid or Medicare, enables enforcement officials to see health care claims data from around the country into a single, searchable database, and strengthens the penalties for criminals. The reduction in waste, fraud and abuse returns savings to the Medicare Trust Fund to strengthen the program into the future. Seniors are encouraged to contact 1-800-MEDICARE to report any solicitations of personal information, or go to www.stopmedicarefraud.gov.
08.26.2010	TOLEDO -- U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today urged the U.S. Senate to act quickly in the wake of the national egg recall to pass legislation to strengthen food safety laws in America. “Families in America deserve to know the food on their table is safe, and Congress should give federal regulators the tools they need to do the job,” Kaptur said at a news conference outside a family-owned market in south Toledo. Kaptur said the House passed the Food Safety Enhancement Act last year, but the Senate has yet to act. She said the national recall of more than half a billion eggs due to an outbreak of salmonella enteritidis illustrates the need for swift government action and stronger enforcement. “We have to remain vigilant in ensuring that our food supply is the safest in the world,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is a member of the House Appropriations agriculture subcommittee. “Everyone has a role to play—producers, retailers, consumers and the government—in making sure that our food is safe for families and children.” She noted that Ohio produces 7.1 billion eggs a year, second only to Iowa. The egg industry in Ohio creates approximately 17,000 jobs and generates an estimated $585 million in revenue. Kaptur said the Food Safety Enhancement Act would give the Food and Drug Administration and U.S. Department of Agriculture greater authority to regulate food production, including more frequent inspections, increased transparency in the production process, and enhanced capacity to trace contaminated food in the event of an outbreak of food-borne illness. Congresswoman Kaptur said consumers can visit her web site at www.house.kaptur.gov to learn about the status of the egg recall for particular brands. “We have an icon on our web site that puts the consumer one click away from everything they need to know about protecting her family from eggs that have been recalled,” she said. Kaptur said she looks forward to congressional hearings on the egg recall when the House of Representatives reconvenes in mid-September.
08.25.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur today issued the following statement to mark Women’s Equality Day and to celebrate the 90th anniversary of women gaining the right to vote: “Ninety years ago today, America finally extended to women the right to vote and took an important step toward achieving its destiny as a nation where equality is embodied in the law. “The road was difficult. Courageous women who became known as suffragettes had to march, struggle and sacrifice in order to bring the dream of equality closer to reality. “As Carrie Chapman Catt, the founder of the League of Women Voters, said about the effort to win passage of the 19th Amendment: ‘To get the word ‘male’ in effect out of the Constitution cost the women of the country 52 years of pauseless campaign.’ “Yet, Ms. Catt and her colleagues were not to be denied. Their quest was to create a more perfect union and today, we are the beneficiaries of their foresight and dedication. “On Women’s Equality Day, we honor their contribution. We stand on their shoulders and recommit ourselves to the ongoing process of creating a more perfect union.”
08.11.2010	Companies have long been innovating their products in America and manufacturing them in other countries. “Our trade deficit with other nations has hindered our economic growth and has put us on a path of selling the assets of our nation and leaving us vulnerable to a new form of tyranny. It’s time to stop letting big corporations use these tax loopholes to take advantage of American workers,” said Kaptur. In addition, this legislation will reduce our national deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
08.05.2010	“The reform proposal makes Medicare stronger, makes Medicare more solvent, and makes Medicare an even better program for America’s seniors than before. “Social Security and Medicare are two of the most important programs in American history. For the past 45 years, Medicare has given seniors in America health care security that was previously lacking. For 75 years, Social Security has provided income security so that seniors could lead independent lives and receive the benefits they have earned through years of hard work. We must protect them.”
08.04.2010	Kaptur drove a Cruze prototype into the Powertrain plant and celebrated with workers and plant officials. “This is not only a ‘Made in America’ car, but mostly a ‘Made in Ohio’ car,” said Kaptur. “The engine blocks are built in Defiance, the stamping done mainly in Parma, the assembly done in three shifts in Lordstown, and the six-speed transmission made right here in Toledo, Ohio by the best workers in the world!” The Cruze has been called “the most important car in (GM’s) global turnaround plan” by the Detroit Free Press. “The American automobile industry has come roaring back after receiving federal assistance during the national economic crisis,” Kaptur said. “This is a quality, fuel-efficient compact that is selling briskly around the world. The Cruze is proof that we can make it in America—make in here in Ohio—and compete with anybody else in the world.” Kaptur defended her vote for the automobile rescue package in Congress, citing General Motors’ investment of more than $600 million in the Powertrain plant in 2007. “Saving the U.S. auto industry was not popular in certain quarters, but it was the right thing to do,” she said. “It would have been economically insane to fail to protect GM’s historic investment in our community and irresponsible to the families that rely on the jobs here. “Everybody sacrificed at little bit, but the strategy worked. And now we’re back!”
07.22.2010	Kaptur noted that most unemployment benefits are turned immediately back into the local economy to pay for essentials such as food, shelter and transportation expenses. She noted that the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that extending unemployment benefits is the most efficient way for the government to generate economic growth. Jobless benefits, the CBO said, add $1.90 to the economy for every dollar spent, injecting demand and generating businesses for local companies.
07.20.2010	House Democrats last evening urged the Senate to pass unemployment insurance, to be responsive to Americans' needs, to abandon politics, and to give their constituents the benefits they deserve. The Senate passed the extension today and the House will take it up tomorrow.
07.02.2010	Senator Byrd’s great-granddaughters participated in the wreath-laying and Bishop William Boyd Grove, the former Bishop for the W.V. Episcopal Area of the United Methodist Church, gave the invocation. The welcome introduction was given by Governor Joe Manchin, and the benediction was given by the Reverend James L. Patterson, President of the Partnership for African American Churches. Bagpiper Major Mark Burdette of the Kanawha Valley Pips and Drums played a rendition of "Amazing Grace", and the 249th Army Band ended the service by playing “Country Roads”, while the crowd sang along.
06.28.2010	The new office and maintenance facility will serve the Toledo Area Regional Paratransit Service, which provides transportation services to seniors and people with disabilities. “TARPS is a vital service,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It truly is a lifeline to independent living for thousands of people in our area. It is an example of our commitment to their quality of life, which is one of the main goals of the Americans with Disabilities Act. “The construction of this facility over the next year will create jobs and help rebuild this part of the city as we go about the process of rebuilding our community one step at a time.” Kaptur also noted that the new TARPS facility will incorporate a number of energy-efficient features, including an earth-sheltered building design, solar panels, geothermal heating and cooling, skylights and reflective roofing. It will also feature a biodiesel fueling center. Construction on the new facility will begin later this year, with opening tentatively scheduled for August 2011.
06.28.2010	The new office and maintenance facility will serve the Toledo Area Regional Paratransit Service, which provides transportation services to seniors and people with disabilities. “TARPS is a vital service,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It truly is a lifeline to independent living for thousands of people in our area. It is an example of our commitment to their quality of life, which is one of the main goals of the Americans with Disabilities Act. “The construction of this facility over the next year will create jobs and help rebuild this part of the city as we go about the process of rebuilding our community one step at a time.” Kaptur also noted that the new TARPS facility will incorporate a number of energy-efficient features, including an earth-sheltered building design, solar panels, geothermal heating and cooling, skylights and reflective roofing. It will also feature a biodiesel fueling center.
06.25.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur will honor Korean War veterans on Saturday morning, June 26, at 10 a.m. with a free brunch at Michael’s Bar and Grill, 901 Monroe Street. The Korean War began 60 years ago this week. Reservations are not necessary for the veterans. For more information, call Steve Fought at 703-587-8165 (cell).
06.25.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur attended a special ceremony in Statuary Hall of the U.S. Capitol Building on June 25 to mark the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War. “Today we remember our veterans who fought so courageously in the Korean War and pay tribute to the servicemen and women currently stationed in South Korea and around the world,” said Kaptur. The war began when North Korea invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950. More than 37,000 American troops were killed and 8,000 reported missing in the war, which ended on July 27, 1953 when an armistice agreement was signed.
06.24.2010	“TCOP is a valuable partner in the National Cancer Institute’s strategic plan, which holds the promise of unprecedented progress in the fight against cancer, which places almost unbearable burdens on millions of American families every year. The NCI plan also makes clear that cancer research is an economic force as well, bringing and sustaining quality jobs in communities such as Toledo in the search for a higher quality of life,” Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur said programs such as TCOP were founded on the belief that advances in cancer care result directly from participation in clinical trials and that the involvement of community physicians and their staffs would provide the necessary volume of patients to provide answers to clinical research questions. TCOP provides a regional Institutional Review Board to review and monitor cancer research protocols at participating hospitals and clinics. Approximately 50 participating physicians from medical and radiation oncology, general surgery, pathology, thoracic surgery and urology play an active role, along with 90 allied health professionals, such as oncology nurses and clinical research assistants. This team has been regularly accruing more than 100 patients annually on treatment related to research trials. In 1989, TCOP became a primary member of the North Central Cancer Treatment Group with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group and Southwest Oncology Group as secondary research bases. Many TCHOP physicians have chaired protocols and have served as chairs of the NCCTG Surgery Committee, RTOG Economic Impact Committee and ECOG Quality of Life Committee. For more information about clinical trials: https://www.cancer.gov/features/clinicaltrials2010.
06.21.2010	Beginning in 2011, the bill provides a 50% discount on prescription drugs in the donut hole; by 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. Under the new health care legislation, the guaranteed Medicare benefits that seniors have earned will not change, regardless of whether they receive them through Medicare or Medicare Advantage. Eligibility will not change, either. Medicare will continue to cover costs the way it always has, but it will be on a stronger financial footing moving forward. And the number of primary care physicians will increase so that seniors can get the care they need. If you have any questions about the health care legislation, please call my office.
06.08.2010	Kaptur also urged local residents to be cautious in beginning their work to rebuild as unscrupulous contractors may not be far behind the storm in trying to defraud residents out of money. “As hard as things are and as important in getting on the road to recovery is, I strongly urge homeowners to do their homework and check with trusted sources for validation of contractors’ credentials,” said Kaptur. According to Ohio Attorney General Rich Cordray’s office, in the wake of damaging storms, such as a tornado, unscrupulous contractors tend to drift state-to-state and prey on desperate people anxious to get their property repaired and lives back in order. In one instance reported, a consumer unwittingly granted Power of Attorney to their roofing contractor. The roofer then managed to negotiate the insurance transaction and pocket the consumer’s insurance proceeds without doing the work. The Ohio Attorney General released these tips for consumers on how to avoid becoming a victim of contractor fraud: • Ask for ID-do not allow entry to any person who is not willing to provide proper identification. • Safeguard personal information. Social Security and bank account numbers are not required by inspectors. • Contact your insurance company to verify benefits immediately after a disaster and so they can send an adjuster to assess any potential damage you may have incurred. • Obtain a list of reputable contractors from your insurance carrier, the Better Business Bureau or a specialized consumer organization. • Do not allow a contractor to inspect your property when you are not home. • If you give contractors permission to inspect your property, personally watch them conduct the inspection. • Contact multiple contractors and obtain more than one estimate. • Request references from contractors and contact the references to verify work was completed timely and to satisfaction. • Obtain in writing the terms and conditions of the project. • Avoid signing a contract until the document is reviewed fully and/or discuss the terms of the contract with a legal representative or a trusted adviser. • Avoid signing a contract that has not been completed fully. • Pay contractor by check or credit card, rather than in cash. • Never sign your insurance check to a contractor. Instead, arrange for a certificate of completion with your bank. • Refrain from paying a contractor in full, or signing a completion certificate, until all work has been finished. • Do not provide the contractor with your personal information, such as your social security number. If you suspect that you have been conned by a fly-by-night contractor, you should contact the Ohio Attorney General at 1-800-282-0515, the Department’s Fraud and Enforcement division at 1-800-686-1527, or your local Better Business Bureau. If you have questions or concerns about insurance, please contact the Department’s consumer hotline at 1-800-686-1526 or go to www.insurance.ohio.gov.
06.08.2010	The aerostat system can also provide surveillance and communications in emergency situations – setting up emergency cell towers, providing visuals of disasters including flooding, draughts, tornadoes and hurricanes. Western DataCom of Westlake, OH provides the communications expertise, while SkySentry of Colorado Springs, CO and its team of Ohio employees provide operations and business development expertise. Roger Nikiforow, local high school teacher and state naturalist commented that “Congresswoman Kaptur understands the importance of real world scientific experience for students K – 12. The aerostat provides just those opportunities that show students real world applications of communications, power and surveillance technologies - they intrigue students and are the future of intelligence, surveillance & reconnaissance.” Normal 0 false false false st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} This fall the team of aerostat operators and partners, including NASA, John H. Glenn Research Center, will demonstrate the communications and surveillance techniques with the U.S. Coast Guard, Neah Bay, the Ohio Department of Homeland Security and Border Patrol. These high-tech systems can provide the Coast Guard, border patrol agents, Homeland Security and U.S soldiers with reliable secure communications and surveillance in the Great Lakes as well as the innermost areas of enemy territory – including Afghanistan and Iraq. The applications are very complimentary. Often times the Coast Guard has limited voice and data connectivity in the Great Lakes called “drop zones” and similarly our U.S. soldiers have extreme limitation in mountainous regions in theatre. According to SkySentry President, Charlie Lambert, “this team can provide ruggedized network and surveillance solutions offering our Border Patrol Agents, Coast Guard, Homeland Security and U.S. soldiers with secure visual, voice and data communications on demand over very cost effective and reliable cellular systems”. Situational awareness is what Border Patrol, Homeland Security, Coast Guard and U.S. Soldiers sometimes refer to as the “unblinking eye” where they have a comprehensive understanding of their current engagement – including suspects and more importantly their own forces. The fall demonstration will provide solutions that deliver voice and video to displays on the intercept boat providing a “Common Operating Picture” connecting all First Responders and avoiding communications difficulties such as those encountered during 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina.
06.02.2010	“This is a day we have worked toward for a long time because our veterans deserve the best from a grateful community and a grateful nation,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who servers as a member of the defense subcommittee of House Appropriations. Kaptur said construction on the new 66,000-square foot clinic, to be located on the Health Sciences campus of the University of Toledo, will begin sometime next year with completion scheduled for the summer of 2012. To be built on the Health Sciences Campus at the University of Toledo, the new 66,000-square-foot facility will replace the current, 32-year-old VA clinic (40,000 square feet) on Glendale Avenue. The building award was made to Carnegie Management and Development of Westlake, Ohio.
05.21.2010	Ottawa County native Crystal Bowersox has advanced to the final round of American Idol. The popular songstress will appear on the show's finale on Tuesday evening, May 25. On May 14, Ms. Bowersox, known affectionately as "Mama Sox," returned to Northwest Ohio for a hometown visit that included a noontime appearance in downtown Toledo and an afternoon concert at the Ottawa County Fairgrounds in Oak Harbor. Congresswoman Kaptur praised the hometown heroine as "America's precious daughter of song" and presented her with an American flag. "She lifts us all and we are inspired by her success," said Kaptur. "Three weeks ago, Crystal sang a heartfelt song by Curtis Mayfield titled, ‘People Get Ready.' "What I have to say is, ‘America, get ready-get ready for Crystal Bowersox.' " Ms. Bowersox, 24, graduated from the Toledo School for the Arts and took her songwriting and singing talent to Chicago, then performed locally in such establishments as Papa's Tavern in East Toledo and the Village Idiot in Maumee before qualifying for the national competition on American Idol.
05.20.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Trade Working Group, made a statement on the House floor in response to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's recently released report that claims U.S. free trade agreements have supported more than 5 million jobs. Reacting to the report, Congresswoman Kaptur asked, "Is this some sort of cruel joke? Are we talking about the same country?" NAFTA and NAFTA-like trade agreements have promised more jobs in the U.S. and a rise in the standard of living. However, these agreements have led to an increase in the trade-deficit and a sharp reduction in manufacturing jobs, as U.S. workers and companies are forced to unfairly compete against state-managed capitalism in places like Mexico, China and Japan. "Take Ohio: Since 1994, employment just in the manufacturing sector has declined by one-third. Companies like Silgan Holdings, Delphi, Georgia Pacific, GM, Dixon Ticonderoga, and Champion Spark Plug all have moved to Mexico," said Kaptur on the House floor this morning. "It is time to wake up, stand up for this country and renegotiate those agreements that keep moving our jobs offshore." Click on the video below to watch the Congresswoman's floor speech.
04.30.2010	Her effort in the House of Representatives netted 62 signatories. Activist groups then waged an on-line petition drive that obtained approximately 140,000 signatures. On Wednesday, Kaptur joined representatives of MoveOn.org and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee at the Justice Department to present the letter and the petitions together. Kaptur said the week's events underscore the need for more concerted action against potential fraud in the financial sector. Kaptur is the sponsor of the Financial Crisis of 2008 Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Act of 2009 (H.R. 3995) that would authorize the hiring of up to 1,000 investigators by the FBI as well as additional personnel by the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission's enforcement division. Click here to read the letter. Click here to view or sign the petition.
04.27.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur today voted for legislation that would freeze congressional salaries next year. "For the first time in 35 years, Social Security recipients did not receive a cost-of-living increase this year," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Why should it be any different for members of Congress? With so many people experiencing so much pain due to the economy, the vote to forego a cost-of-living increase is the right thing to do." Without legislative action such as today's vote, members of Congress would receive an automatic, annual cost-of-living increase as a result of legislation that was passed in 1989. Kaptur, a 14-term member, has rejected pay raises for years and annually contributes more than $25,000 in foregone pay raises to worthy causes in the Ninth Congressional District.
04.22.2010	Since 2003, the "We the People" bookshelf program has introduced young readers to great literature and themes from American history. This year's theme is timed to coincide with the commemoration of the Civil War, which began 150 years ago. "The works in the bookshelf grant help illustrate the motto of our nation-e pluribus unum-out of many, one," Congresswoman Kaptur said. The OLPH Library will receive a set of books along with posters, bookmarks, and other promotional materials through the American Library Association, working in partnership with the NEH. The award includes Spanish translations to accompany three of the selected titles, as well as bonus materials for library patrons of all ages. As part of the award, libraries around the country are organizing programs and events to raise awareness about these classic works and to engage young readers through April 30 of next year. The Bookshelf award includes the following books: Kindergarten to Grade 3: Tico and the Golden Wings by Leo Lionni; A More Perfect Union: The Story of Our Constitution by Betsy and Giulio Maestro; Una unión más perfecta: la historia de nuestra constitución by Betsy and Giulio Maestro (translated by Aída E. Marcuse); When Marian Sang: The True Recital of Marian Anderson by Pam Muñoz Ryan Grades 4-6: César ¡Sí, se puede! by Carmet T. Bernier-Grand (Spanish edition); César ¡Si, Se Puede! / Yes, We Can! By Carmen T. Bernier-Grand; Eagle Song by Joseph Bruchac; The Great Little Madison by Jean Fritz; Darby by Jonathon Scott Fuqua Grades 7-8: Chains by Laurie Halse Anderson; Warriors Don't Cry by Melba Beals; Lincoln Shot: A President's Life Remembered by Barry Denenberg; Hitch by Jeanette Ingold Grades 9-12: The Souls of Black Folk by W. E. B. DuBois; American Creation: Triumphs and Tragedies at the Founding of the Republic by Joseph Ellis; Lincoln in His Own Words by Milton Meltzer; Carver: A Life in Poems by Marilyn Nelson; Twelve Angry Men by Reginald Rose; Ángeles asesinos by Michael Shaara (translated by Manuel de los Reyes); Killer Angels by Michael Shaara Bonus: The Civil War: A Film by Ken Burns; The Civil War: An Illustrated History by Geoffrey Ward, Ric Burns, Ken Burns; Declaring Independence: The Origin and Influence of America's Founding Document edited by Christian Y. Dupont Created in 1965 as an independent federal agency, the National Endowment for the Humanities supports learning in history, literature, philosophy, and other areas of the humanities. NEH grants enrich classroom learning, create and preserve knowledge, and bring ideas to life through public television, radio, new technologies, museum exhibitions, and programs in libraries and other community places. # # # Contact: Steve Fought (419) 259-7500 Additional information about the National Endowment for the Humanities can be found at www.neh.gov. Additional information about the American Library Association can be found at www.ala.org .
04.21.2010	The Toledo area was one of 25 communities to receive a total of $452 million in Recovery Act funding under the Retrofit Ramp-Up initiative administered by the U. S. Department of Energy. The program will focus on partnerships between communities and non-profit organizations on innovative programs to retrofit entire neighborhoods and towns. The local AEU will identify, evaluate, install, finance and manage energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, primarily in public and commercial buildings. Energy efficiency will be made accessible to hundreds of thousands of homeowners and businesses. Because of Toledo's geographic proximity to Michigan, the local project is designed to benefit businesses and citizens from both states. The 25 projects announced nationally today by Vice President Biden will leverage an estimated $2.8 billion dollars in private sector investment over the next three years. Grantees will employ innovative financing models to make these savings accessible-for example, by offering low and no-interest loans that are repaid through property tax and utility bills. Overall, Treasury Department officials said, the program was eight times oversubscribed, with more than $3.5 billion in applications submitted for the just over $450 million in Recovery Act funds available, indicating significant demand for investment in energy-saving and job-creation projects. The Retrofit Ramp-Up projects, which are part of the overall $80 billion Recovery Act investment in clean energy and energy-efficiency, complement the Obama Administration's ‘Recovery through Retrofit' initiative, which lays the groundwork for a self-sustaining and robust home energy efficiency industry. The awards announced today are the competitive portion of DOE's Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) Program, which was funded for the first time under the Recovery Act, which Congresswoman Kaptur supported, to help state, local, and tribal communities make strategic investments in improving energy efficiency, reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions.
04.21.2010	"Our region is already recognized around the world as a leader on the solar, biofuels and alternative energy fronts," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This is a transformative event as federal assistance will leverage private dollars many times over and further secure our competitive advantage in this high-growth sector of the economy. "This is where many of our jobs will come from as we unleash the creativity and nurture the entrepreneurial spirts of our region, creating jobs across a number of sectors through workforce energy audits, engineering and design, and worker retraining for green technology." The Toledo area was one of 25 communities nationally (two in Ohio--Toledo and Cincinnati)--that received a total of $452 million in Recovery Act funding under the Retrofit Ramp-Up initiative administered by the U.S. Department of Energy. The program will focus creating partnerships between communities and non-profit organizations on innovative programs to retrofit entire neighborhoods and towns. The local AEU will identify, evaluate, install, finance and manage energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, primarily in public and commercial buildings. Energy efficiency will be made accessible to hundreds of thousands of homeowners and businesses. Because of Toledo's geographic proximity to Michigan, the local project is designed to benefit businesses and citizens from both states. The 25 projects announced nationally today by the vice president will leverage an estimated $2.8 billion in private sector investment. Grantees will employ innovative financial models to make these savings accessible--for example, by offering low- and no-interest loans that are repaid through property tax and utility bills. Overall, Treasury Department officials said, the program was eight times oversubscribed, with more than $3.5 billion in applications submitted for the just over $450 million in Recovery Act funds available, indicating significant demands for investment in energy-saving and job-creation projects. The Retrofit Ramp-Up projects, which are part of the overall $80 billion Recovery Act investment in clean energy and energy efficiency, complement the Obama Administration's "Recovery Through Retrofit" initiative, which lays the groundwork for a self-sustaining and robust home energy efficiency industry. The awards announced today are the competitive portion of DOE's Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program, which was funded for the first time under the Recovery Act, which Congresswoman Kaptur supported, to help state, local and tribal communities make strategic investments in improving energy efficiency and reducing fossil fuel emissions.
04.13.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } Â "Over time, the solar field will pay for itself, not only in jobs created and expertise gained locally, but also from the savings that ODOT will realize in the cost of lighting the bridge. This project is a bright, shining example of what we can accomplish when working together-federal, state, and local, public sector and private sector. "With leading-edge technology, the Skyway will now help light the way to a new and brighter future for our regional economy." "This project is a great example of the expertise the University of Toledo and the UT Transportation Center can bring to the table as solar and alternative energy are increasingly integrated into transportation systems across the state and nation," UT President Lloyd Jacobs said in a statement. Installation of the solar panels will begin this spring along I-280 south of Central Avenue and west of Galena Street. The solar array is expected to begin generating electricity by the end of the summer.
04.09.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } The 2010 program also includes an $89.5 million project to improve safety and reduce congestion at the I-75/I-475 interchange in central Toledo. The project will widen I-475 to three lanes in each direction. Scheduled to begin this summer, the project is scheduled to be completed in 2013. The "Fort to Port" project on U.S. Route 24 will involve construction of a four-lane, divided highway in Lucas and Henry counties this year. Due to open in the summer of 2012, the final three phases of the project will complete a vital link from the port of Toledo to Fort Wayne, Indiana. An $8.9 million project will widen Wheeling Street, including the bridge over I-280, in Lucas County. Scheduled completion date is December 2011. And, the DiSalle Bridge over I-75 in Lucas County will be redecked at a cost of $10.2 million. This is also a Recovery Act-funded project. The ODOT program also includes three projects in Ottawa County, including the repair of four bridges on State Routes 19 and 590 at a cost of $842,000; replacement of a culvert on State Route 53, just north of the Sandusky-Ottawa County line, at a cost of $245,000; and repair on the Port Clinton Lift Bridge ($161,000), which will be closed to masted navigation through April.
04.09.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Congresswoman Kaptur announced on Friday a $1 million federal award to the Ohio Veterans Home in Sandusky for the tub room and nurse call system project. Funding came from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Kaptur said. The federal grant will cover approximately 65 percent of the anticipated cost of construction, she said. The state of Ohio will guarantee the balance of funding, said Kaptur. "The veterans of our nation deserve the best care our nation can provide. These long-needed improvements at the Sandusky Home will upgrade patient care and help to create local jobs as our construction season starts." The Ohio Veterans Home dates back to the Civil War era. The facility has housed veterans from the Civil War, the Mexican Border War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War and the Persian Gulf War. More than 50,000 veterans have resided at the facility over the years.
04.02.2010	Kaptur said the commercialization complex highlights the growing importance of the University of Toledo to regional economic development. "This takes our joint efforts at job creation to new heights, building on our successes in alternative energy, biomedical research at the Health Sciences Campus, advanced materials research at the College of Engineering, and transportation research as well." Kaptur said regional leaders are "well aware" of the nature of global competition. "We know we're engaged in a worldwide competition for jobs and investment," she said. "But make no mistake-these achievements did not happen by accident. They are part of a comprehensive strategy to make our region globally competitive." She cited collaborations with federal partners such as EDA, NASA, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Transportation. "We will continue to fight for our fair share of federal dollars to help our region grow," she said. Congresswoman Kaptur also cited the Clean and Alternative Energy Incubator, the new Savage and Associates Complex for Business Learning and Engagement, and the Center for Technological Entrepreneurship and Innovation as key components of the strategy for economic growth. "We have underscored that commitment to competitiveness by redoubling our efforts at commercialization so that our region can realize the fruits of successes in innovation and entrepreneurship. "We're putting the world on notice - thanks to the leadership of Dr. Jacobs and his team here at UT and also the vision and generosity of Norm Nitschke - we're in this competition to win."
04.01.2010	Read H.R. 4872, The Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, here. Read summary of the bill here. Read section by section analysis of the bill here. Read the report by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office on the budgetary impact of the reconciliation bill here. Read the President's Executive Order prohibiting the use of federal funds for abortion here. Click on Gallup and USA Today to view recent polls that confirm that a majority of Americans support the health care reform bill that was signed into law by President Obama.
03.31.2010	"Education is the key to getting a good-paying job,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Workers with bachelor’s degrees earn approximately 80 percent more on average than workers with only high school diplomas. “That’s why Congress acted to make higher education more affordable, especially in these tough economic times.” Like rising health care costs, increases in college tuition are burdening American families across the country. Students who depend on federal grants and loans in order to advance their careers are struggling to make ends meet. And when students lack access to education or fail to graduate with a degree, our economy suffers. Pell Grants: The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act invests more than $40 billion to ensure that eligible students receive an award and that the awards increase in order to keep pace with inflation. It ensures a continued maximum grant of $5,500. The federal government will make available more than 800,000 additional Pell Grants over the next 10 years. Student Loan Programs: The legislation saves an estimated $61 billion in the student loan program over 10 years by cutting out the middle man and moving all institutions to the Direct Loan program by July 1 of this year. Student Loan Repayment: The act also helps students and families repay the loans that are such an important part of financing higher education. It amends the income-based repayment program to cap loan repayments for borrowers who assume loans after July 1, 2014 at 10 percent of their discretionary income (the current cap is 15 percent). If these borrowers keep up with their payments over time, they will have the balance forgiven after 20 years. “I’ve talked to students who are graduating from college with $20,000 or more in student loans debt, so this is an extremely important provision as our young people try to get ahead,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Community Colleges: The legislation also includes $2 billion over four years for America’s community colleges. As the largest part of our nation’s higher education system, community colleges will receive a total of $2 billion through the Community College and Career Training Grant Program. This program is designed to fund training and education programs that serve the needs of workers who are eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance because they lost their jobs due to the impact of foreign trade. “The Career Training Grant Program is particularly important for our region due to the high unemployment and the large number of people who are seeking training for the jobs of tomorrow,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Loan Forgiveness: The legislation allows public service workers—such as teachers, nurses, and members of the military—to have any remaining debt forgiven after only 10 years. More than 1.2 million new borrowers, and perhaps more than 2,500 borrowers in the Ninth Congressional District, are expected to quality and participate in this new benefit.
03.25.2010	In those communities that have provided maternal care and health care for children, for all children, we find that the abortion rate goes down significantly. Wouldn't it be wonderful if in our country no woman ever had to face the fateful decision of abortion? I think that what we have done through this bill and through this executive order is to establish a platform under all of America 's families, to give them the peace and security of a future where they don't have to make gruesome choices. I just want to say to all of my colleagues, it was a joy to work with them because we know what we are doing is we are being a voice, as the March of Dimes tell us, for over a half a million children in this country who are born every year-low birthweight, many with deformities, because the mothers have never receive sufficient care during that childbearing period, and that's going to change with this bill. I know that speaking with President Obama, as all my colleagues have, he's a very good father, he's a very good husband, and he would wish that for all of America 's families. We want to thank him for his leadership on this issue. I also want to thank Congressman Stupak, Congresswoman Dahlkemper of Erie, Pennsylvania, my sister in this effort, and also my good colleague from the state of Ohio, Steve Driehaus from Cincinnati, who has stood tall as a father himself, a good father, for all of America's children and families, to Congressman Rahall, Congressman Mollohan, Congressman Carney, all of equal suit, all fathers. We have stood up for all of America's families.
03.25.2010	"More than 300,000 in investment at the Sandusky Veterans Home will not only result in jobs in the local economy, but improve the quality of life for our veterans at the home in Sandusky," Kaptur said. "What an honor it is to serve those who have served our nation." The Sandusky facility, which has operated for more than 115 years, provides standard care and special care in its licensed nursing home. It also offers Veterans Hall, a domiciliary for people who are unable to live independently, and DOM-Plus for those who require only limited assistance and not the level of care that is provided to nursing home residents.
03.24.2010	This provisions in the bill include: Creating construction jobs by extending Build America Bonds, which provide funding to state and local gov ernments to rebuild schools, hospitals, and sewers in our communities; Extending Recovery Zone Bonds for areas with high unemployment so that communities can invest in local infrastructure, job training programs, education, and economic development; and Increasing the capital gains tax cut for those who invest in small businesses - giving our small businesses the new capital they need to grow and hire more workers. The bill is fully paid for by cracking down on foreign corporations that evade U.S. tax laws. "This legislation is one more piece of the ongoing effort to create jobs and put our economy on sound footing for the future," said Congresswoman Kaptur.
03.24.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Kaptur was interviewed by Dan Moulthrop on "The Sound of Ideas," which has been recognized as the best radio program in Ohio. Kaptur called health insurance reform "a very historic moment for our country," ranking it with Social Security and Medicare. "It does take a step in the direction of covering those who remain uninsured in our country and making sure that everyone who is insured has more competition and private insurance plans that are more competitive for our people." Kaptur said she is particularly sensitive to the concerns of small business. "I come from a small business family," she said. "Our father had several heart attacks and had to sell his business and take a job in an auto plant so that he could have health insurance for his wife and children. So I know the pressures of small business. "By 2010, there will be a 35 percent tax credit that will accrue to small business that is effective this year, rising by year 2014 to 50 percent."
03.21.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur said she was convinced that the legislation will maintain existing law on abortion. “We have received assurances that we will be able to work with the Administration to assure that existing law is maintained—not to change it in any way, but to make sure that it applies to this bill.” She also took note of skyrocketing insurance premiums. “Families and small businesses are seeing that the market is becoming less affordable,” she said. “This bill, for the first time in American history, gives small business a chance to get affordable rates—not from the government, because all the plans that are being allowed to serve on the exchange are private plans. We create the rules for competition and we break down the monopolies and kind of false market that the 50 states have created. “I’m very hopeful that as they see this move forward, they will see that they as families and small businesses will benefit. People have been losing benefits and the costs have been increasing. We hope that with competition we will get a more robust system for everyone.”
03.18.2010	The HIRE ACT includes: · Tax incentives for small businesses to write off up to $250,000 in any new investments that they make in equipment this year; · A payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, which is estimated to create 300,000 jobs; · A $1,000 tax incentive for businesses that retain unemployed workers for at least 52 weeks; · An extension of the Highway Trust Fund to spur billions of dollars in infrastructure development, including an estimated $300 million in the state of Ohio; and · A provision to delay by up to three years a tax break for US companies that have shipped jobs overseas. "While I am pleased that we were able to move decisively toward addressing unemployment issues in our district and across our nation, there is more work that needs to be done."
03.17.2010	Joining Geithner at today's hearing were the other two members of the so-called "troika" of economic policymakers: Council of Economic Advisers chair Christina Romer and Office of Management & Budget director Peter Orszag. "We expect to begin seeing job gains sometime this spring," Romer said, citing the administration's forecasts that the labor market will add about 100,000 jobs per month this year, 200,000 per month next year, and 250,000 per month in 2012. "Nevertheless," she said, "because of the severe toll the recession has taken on the labor market, unemployment is likely to remain elevated for an extended period." Romer reiterated the administration's forecast that the unemployment rate currently at 9.7 percent will fall to 8.9 percent at the end of next year and 7.9 percent at the end of 2012. She also repeated its predictions that the economy will grow by 3 percent this year and 4.3 percent the next two years, with inflation expected to remain low. 'Dismaying and Out of Touch' But in a sign of the widespread frustration about the economic downturn, Rep. Marcy Kaptur, a Democrat from Ohio, ripped into the three administration officials for not doing enough to help the unemployed. "I find your testimony dismaying and out of touch," Kaptur said, arguing that they were more focused on the deficit than job losses. "You have no urgency!" "People are becoming desperate," she said. "I am their representative. I cannot politely sit and listen to this and not feel compassion for them and expecting some from you." Kaptur blasted the administration's foreclosure prevention plan, which to date has helped only 168,000 homeowners permanently modify their mortgages. Administration Says Economy Coming Back, Gets Earful "Your work-out programs are not working," Kaptur said. "The people who caused this mess are doing just fine&they're doing fine. The taxpayers bailed them out and my people are suffering, they're at the edge. Where is the urgency?" "The banks are not doing good enough and we are going to put substantial pressure on them&" replied Geithner. But Kaptur quickly interrupted him: "It is pitiful, it is an embarrassment to the nation." Romer pushed back against Kaptur's criticisms. "The urgency is absolutely enormous," Romer said. "I can tell you that every single time we meet with the President, no matter what you tell him, his question is what does that mean for jobs." The three administration officials blamed the Bush administration for the country's soaring budget deficit, saying the Bush team cut taxes in 2001 and 2003 and left the country in a severe recession when Obama took office in 2009. The panel's ranking Republican replied that the rising red ink was hurting the economic recovery. "We can agree to disagree on the cause of our economic troubles, but the fact remains that we cannot spend our way to economic health," said Rep. Jerry Lewis, R-Calif. "Until this Congress and this administration curbs its appetite for spending, our economy will continue to suffer&The simple truth is that Uncle Sam does need to go on a diet." Click here to go to the article on ABC News. Copyright © 2010 ABC News Internet Ventures
03.10.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur released the following statement today following the Democratic Caucus' decision to further limit earmarks in the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations process: "Chairman Obey deserves credit for taking unprecedented steps to reform earmark procedures and eliminating the potential for abuse. "Under his leadership, the committee has increased transparency, cut the dollar amount of earmarks almost by half, and now limited earmarks to non-profit entities. "The record is clear: the Republicans took none of these steps when they were in power. The Obey reforms will cut earmarks by 1,000 projects. Under the Republicans, earmarks increased by more than 1,000 percent. Every American who cares about clean government can understand that simple math. "Chairman Obey has struck the proper balance between retaining a role for the legislative branch in funding worthy projects and eliminating any potential for abuse. "The bottom line: worthy requests from non-profit organizations such as universities and local governments will stand an even better chance than before these reforms were announced. "And small businesses with a better mousetrap will have a direct opportunity to present their ideas to the Department of Defense to improve the efficiency of keeping our nation safe." Click here to view the press release from the House Appropriations Committee. Click here to view the fact sheet on the recent history of earmark reform.
03.05.2010	The measure passed the House of Representatives on Thursday, March 4. “We have 40,000 workers unemployed in the Ninth Congressional District, and we need aggressive action on jobs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Besides creating the tax holiday, the HIRE Act includes a $1,000 income tax credit for businesses that retain the unemployed workers whom they hire. Other provisions of the HIRE Act make it easier for states to undertake infrastructure projects such as school construction and energy retrofitting. An extension of the Highway Trust Fund will spur billions of dollars in infrastructure development, including an estimated $300 million in the state of Ohio. “Congress needs to act decisively on jobs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who co-founded the Congressional Jobs Now! Caucus. “Our region has been hard hit by the recession, with jobless rates exceeding 12 percent in Lucas and Erie counties. Ottawa County has the second highest unemployment rate in the state.”
03.03.2010	“The Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act will save money for our seniors and more than 150 billion taxpayer dollars over the next decade,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The only parties who benefit from the current arrangement are the drug companies.” The Bush Administration in 2004 prevented the federal government from negotiating with private pharmaceutical companies for discounts on drugs that are bought in bulk for the Medicare Part D program. Taxpayers fund more than three quarters of the cost of the Medicare Part D drug benefit, Kaptur said, which accounts for $50 billion worth of drugs in 2009 alone. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the Department of Veterans Affairs has reduced costs significantly by negotiating rates. A recent report by Families USA found that the top five Medicare Part D insurers charged 58 percent more than the VA for 20 commonly prescribed drugs.
03.01.2010	Kaptur, who co-chairs the House Jobs Now! Caucus, said credit unions can help fill the gap left by the mega-banks, “which even now seem to be more interested in gambling on high-risk instruments such as derivatives than providing credit to worthy customers.” She noted that 30 credit unions are headquartered in the Ninth Congressional District. Kaptur has joined a bipartisan effort to encourage House leadership, both Democratic and Republican, to make credit unions a key part of America’s economic growth strategy. In a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Republican Leader John Boehner, Congresswoman Kaptur, along with colleagues Paul Kanjorski (D-Pa.) and Ed Royce (R-Calif.), urged support for the Promoting Lending to America’s Small Businesses Act. This bill (H.R. 3380) would double a credit union’s business lending cap to 25 percent of total assets. It would also credit unions to exempt from their business lending caps any loans of less than $250,000. “These two steps would make substantially more credit available to creditworthy borrowers and accelerate the economic recovery,” said Kaptur. “Raising the business lending cap for credit unions could provide an estimated $10 billion for new loans to small businesses and create approximately 100,000 new jobs—at no cost to the taxpayers.” Kaptur said increasing competition in the marketplace for small business loans would also increase the efficiency of capital allocation. “Increased competition in the marketplace will help to ensure that all lenders treat their customers fairly,” she said.
02.24.2010	
02.24.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform committee, charged the automaker with failing to act on warnings from consumers about safety defects in Toyota vehicles. Brandishing a copy of "The Toyota Way," a book by Jeffrey Liker, Kaptur asked Mr. Toyoda, "How did Toyota lose its way?"She noted that the book is widely used in business schools around the world as an example of successful management, but that Toyota in fact "went from emphasizing long-term values and corporate responsibility to fighting against safety regulations, against environmental regulations, and against worker rights." "I am disappointed," she said. "Is it the 'Toyota way' to use insider dealing to influence decisions and push a deregulation agenda that works against the people of our own country?" Mr. Toyoda said he was sincerely sorry for the deaths and pledged his company would do better in the future. Earlier in the hearing, Congresswoman Kaptur questioned Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood about the level of cooperation from transportation safety regulators in responding to concerns about Toyota products.
02.22.2010	“And reply to the Census form when it arrives in the mail next month. “We need everyone to participate so that everyone is counted and everyone’s voice is heard. Congresswoman Kaptur told the crowd of approximately 150 people that the Census is required by the U.S. Constitution and is used to draw legislative districts, including Congress, and to allocate funds to communities for important programs such as transportation and social services. Click here to apply for Census jobs.
02.05.2010	Below are some of the photos from the event. More photos to come in the near future. Other awards or honorable mentions were won by the following students: Bowsher: Ryan Murray; Whitmer: Stacy Miles, Cristi Ruff, Seth Ellis, and Alexandra Yambert; Oberlin: Zofia Stanely; Ottawa Hills: Meara Thombre; Milan Edison: Corey Vanderbaan; Notre Dame Academy: Natassa Christides; Springfield: Chelsea Trombla; St. Ursula: Jessica Marciniak; Sylvania Northview: Brett Quinn; and, Toledo School for the Arts: Vanessa Carpenter. Mr. Murray also won the University of Toledo award, as did Ms. Carpenter. Ms. Ruff, Ms. Miles and Ms. Christides won the Bowling Green State University awards. Mr. Vanderbaan received the Eastman & Smith award. Mr. Madden received the Commercial Design Award. His artwork will be reproduced into glassware by Libbey, Inc. Honorable Mentions in the commercial category were received by: Sirena Mason (Bowsher), Zi-Qi Liew (Ottawa Hills), Brooke Marshall (Toledo Waite), and Tim Williams (Whitmer). All participants in the commercial design competition have been invited to a Design Career Workshop hosted by Libbey. Jurors for this year’s competition were: Seder Burns (University of Toledo); Sue Ann Ladd, a retired art educator; Tom Matteson (Lourdes College); Maria Rodriguez-Winter (board member, Arts Commission of Greater Toledo); Barbara Rollins (board member, Firelands Association of the Visual Arts); Sara Schleicher (Bowling Green State University); and, Sandy Shult (graphic artist, Libbey, Inc.). The students’ artwork will be displayed in the lobby of Fifth Third Center at One Seagate through Feb. 21 before traveling to Oberlin College Science Center (March 1-21). A reception for participants will be held on Sunday, March7 at 1:30 p.m. in Oberlin. The 27th annual competition, which affords young people to opportunity showcase their artistic ability, was sponsored by Congresswoman Kaptur in connection with the Arts Commission of Greater Toledo, the longest standing arts commission in the state of Ohio.
02.01.2010	Appearing on the On Point program hosted by Tom Ashbrook, Congresswoman Kaptur noted that one county in the Ninth Congressional District, Ottawa County, is suffering from 17 percent unemployment. “So direct efforts to help people are a very high priority with me,” she said. Kaptur also stressed the need for jobs and economic growth. “Whatever we do,” Kaptur said, “we have to create growth in the economy—that’s right at the top … You grow your way out of a deficit and this long-term debt. People have to work.” Kaptur said fiscal responsibility is achievable. “I have been a part of a Congress, back in the Nineties, that balanced the budget and started to bring down the debt,” she said. “We gave President Bush a balanced budget in 2000. So it can be done, but the choices will be tough. This president (Obama) assumed office in a vortex. Things were going down. The Bush Administration had left a huge deficit. We never had a balanced budget in those years and these two wars have extended for over a decade, and there’s a huge cost to that.” She also emphasized the importance of reforming the financial system. “We have to do what’s right in the banking system,” she said. “The public sector can’t possibly substitute for the capital that is being destroyed every day in the banking system.” She said she would support targeted tax cuts, citing the success of the first-time homebuyer tax credits that Congress approved last year.
01.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;}
01.25.2010	Congresswoman Kaptur said the expansion of the Commodity Supplemental Food Program means that 6,000 food packages will be available each month—up 40 percent from the previous level. The program has existed since the early 1970s for mothers and children and was expanded in 1985 to include senior citizens. Ohio became eligible to participate in the program in Fiscal Year 2000. The packages offer staples that every family can use, including canned meat and fish, peanut butter, cheese and other dairy products, canned fruits and vegetables, juices, cheese, cereals and grains. Nationally, Congress and the Administration provided $171 million for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program in Fiscal Year 2010, supporting more than 600,000 participants. “During these difficult times,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, “program such as the Commodity Supplemental Food Program provide an important lifeline to some of the more vulnerable members of our community.”
01.15.2010	He was assassinated on April 4, 1968, but his dream of equality, his leadership and his courage continue to inspire millions of people around the world. For more information about this event, please contact the Board of Community Relations at 419.245.1565, the UT Office of Special Events at 419.530.2200, or click here. For directions to the venue, please click here.
01.14.2010	The state of Ohio has received $54 million in federal LIHEAP funding to help low-income citizens pay the costs of heating and insulating their homes. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released $1.2 billion in LIHEAP funds now in order to ensure that states such as Ohio has the resources available to help needy families through the winter. LIHEAP helps more than six million low-income households in America deal with energy costs. Individuals who are interested in applying for energy assistance should contact their local LIHEAP agencies. For more information, please go to the LIHEAP website or click here to view the LIHEAP online brochure. You are also welcome to call Congresswoman Kaptur’s office for more information at (800)964-4699.
01.13.2010	According to the U.S. State Department, the American Red Cross is accepting donations for its rescue and relief efforts in Haiti by cell phone. Those interested in donating funds toward this effort can text the message "HAITI" to "90999". A donation of $10 dollars will immediately go to the American Red Cross and will be charged to your cell phone bill. Please click here for more information. For a list of charitable organizations that are accepting donations online for their relief efforts in Haiti, please click here. For information about the status of U.S. citizens in Haiti, please contact the American Citizens Services at 888-407-47 Click here to learn more about Haiti.
01.13.2010	My prayers are with the people of Haiti during this difficult time. As you know, thousands are feared dead and many more injured from the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated the already impoverished Caribbean nation on January 12, 2010. There are about 45,000 Americans in Haiti, and a spokesperson for the American Red Cross estimates that as many as 3 million people may be affected by this earthquake. According to the U.S. State Department, the American Red Cross is accepting donations for its rescue and relief efforts in Haiti by cell phone. Those interested in donating funds toward this effort can text the message "HAITI" to "90999". A donation of $10 dollars will immediately go to the American Red Cross and will be charged to your cell phone bill. Please click here for more information. For a list of charitable organizations that are accepting donations online for their relief efforts in Haiti, please click here. Click here to learn more about Haiti.
01.08.2010	Xunlight will receive $34.5 million in tax credits while First Solar will receive $16.32 million in credits. A total of $2.3 billion in Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits were announced by President Obama at the White House. Of the 183 projects, seven were located in Ohio, including Circleville (Du Pont), Bedford (Cardinal Fasteners and Specialists), Findlay (Dow Chemical), Bucyrus (General Electric Lighting), and Dayton (AcuTemp). “This is another red-letter day--or perhaps I should say 'green-letter' day--for our region,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “All our efforts to build a clean energy sector in our local economy and create good new jobs are paying off big time.” "This will help us ramp up our manufacturing process to reach the 100 megawatt production scale," said Dr. Xunming Deng, founder and chief executive officer of Xunlight. "This will allow us to expand our operations from the current level of 100 employees and create hundreds of high-paying jobs in Northwest Ohio." The tax credits, which were contained in the Recovery Act legislation that Congress passed last year, focus on putting Americans back to work in a robust renewable energy sector with American-made parts and equipment. The credits also bring closer the President's goal of doubling the amount of renewable energy the country uses in the next three years with domestically-manufactured wind turbines and solar panels. “Building a robust clean energy sector is how we will create the jobs of the future,” said President Obama, who said the awards “will help close the clean energy gap that has grown between America and other nations while creating good jobs, reducing our carbon emissions and increasing our energy security.” The investment tax credits, worth up to 30 percent of each planned project, will leverage private capital for a total investment of nearly $7.7 billion in high-tech manufacturing. The projects announced today address the broad spectrum of manufacturing capabilities needed to support a robust clean energy economy.
01.05.2010	Kaptur said the project represents a pioneering effort to make U.S. military bases energy independent. The construction efforts outlined today will ultimately produce more than one megawatt of power, or more than a third of the base’s total requirement of electricity. “Even on an overcast day such as today, this solar energy plant is doing yeoman’s work producing power for the 180th,” Kaptur said. She said the hardware for the array is now 100 percent locally acquired with the addition of a locally manufactured inverter, introduced recently by Toledo-based Nextronex. Almost a dozen northwest Ohio companies are involved in building the solar plant, which Kaptur initiated from her position on the House Appropriations defense subcommittee. She has directed more than $9 million for the solar field at the 180th and a sister field that is underway at Camp Perry in Ottawa County. “Imported energy is America’s chief strategic vulnerability,” Kaptur said. “We are trying to nation’s defense to an energy independent posture.” Kaptur said the 180th Fighter Wing base “serves as a 21st Century prototype, not just for Ohio, but for the entire nation. Our region, because of our advanced energy technologies, will help lead America to a new day when energy freedom will be restored. Others may talk about restoring America’s energy independence. Here in northern Ohio, we are already leading America forward.” Kaptur noted that The Economist has identified Toledo as one of the three most significant solar energy research communities in the world. “This base clearly captures that lead in a way that the public will come to understand,” Kaptur said. The solar field concept, she said, provides a more cost effective technology than other applications, such as a project underway in Nevada. She said the initiatives at the 180th and at Camp Perry complement her efforts to help build an alternative energy industry in Northern Ohio around the hub of the Center for Solar Energy and Hydrogen at the University of Toledo. “We’re creating the economy of the future thanks to a robust federal commitment, combined with local participation from many quarters,” she said. “There’s no higher priority than making our nation energy independent and positioning Northern Ohio as a leader in that endeavor. We have shown that can lower our operating costs and improve our security at the same time. We intend to show the rest of America the way to declaring independence from unstable foreign energy sources.” The 180th Air Wing at Toledo Express Airport has been ranked as an Excellent unit in the Air Force ranking system and is slated to receive the Joint Strike Fighter, the successor aircraft to the current F-16s that are being flown. Energy Resources A guide to installing solar energy Alternative energy tax credits for which you may be eligible Funding opportunities from the The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Related to Energy Read more about solar energy development in Northern Ohio here.
01.04.2010	Each household will receive a Census form in the mail starting in mid-March. For the first time, every household will receive the short form, which is simple, straightforward and easy to understand. Short forms traditionally have had higher participation rates than long forms. Failing to return the questionnaire not only shortchanges our local communities, but it also costs the taxpayer: the process of interviewing households that do not return their questionnaires is the most expensive component of the Census. Most non-responding households will receive a second questionnaire. A special focus of Census 2010 is to improve outreach to “hard-to-count” communities and to expand efforts to reduce historical undercounts of minority populations. The Census Bureau and its 12 regional offices, including Detroit, have signed up a record number of organizations that are volunteering to help spread the message that the 2010 Census is easy, safe and important. The Census Bureau reported that the population of the United States reached 308,400,408 on January 1, an increase of 0.9 percent from last year. The bureau estimated that a birth occurs every eight seconds in the United States and a death occurs every 12 seconds. The Census is mandated by the United States Constitution (Article 1, Section 2).
12.28.2009	To qualify for the COBRA subsidy, a worker must have been involuntarily separated between Sept. 1, 2008 and Feb. 28, 2010. Workers who have lost their jobs and meet the qualifications may receive a 65 percent subsidy for COBRA continuation premiums for themselves and their families for up to 15 months. Eligible workers who elect COBRA and qualify for the subsidy would pay their 35-percent share to their former employers, usually on a monthly basis. The involuntary termination must occur during the period beginning Sept. 1, 2008 and ending Feb. 28, 2010. The premium reduction applies to periods of health coverage that began on or after Feb. 17, 2009 (when this provision of the Recovery Act took effect). Workers who lost their jobs between Sept. 1, 2008 and enactment of the legislation on Dec. 19, 2009, but who failed to initially elect COBRA because it was unaffordable, received an additional 60 days to elect COBRA and receive the subsidy. Workers who have lost their jobs after Dec. 19 still have the customary 60 days to choose whether or not to elect COBRA.
12.11.2009	Click on the picture below to watch the Congresswoman's floor speech. Real reform means breaking up the big banks. Real reform means empowering community banks and local capital accumulation. Real reform means separating speculation and investment. Real reform means restoring prudent lending. Real reform means restructuring troubled housing mortgages. Real reform means rewarding institutions that play by the rules and don't over-leverage. Real reform means prosecuting financial white-collar criminals and keeping them out of finance permanently. Real reform means directly connecting executive pay and bonuses to the performance of the company and recouping the $145 billion in unwarranted bonuses for the American taxpayer. Real reform means regulating all derivatives openly and clearly. Real reform means limiting interconnectedness between large financial institutions. Real reform means independent supervisory and regulatory agencies that do their job--independent supervisory and regulatory agencies. The bill that will be considered tomorrow, as it was today, merely bunts at wrestling casino capitalism to the ground. This bill, like so many before it, will simply lead to more abuse, more risky behavior, and more reward for the most hazardous and imprudent characters. Wall Street needs our help in rescuing them from their own bad behavior, not because Wall Street deserves it or is worthy; they need to be disciplined because our natural interest is more important than Wall Street. Let's dissect America's economic predicament and what Congress has passed to fix it. In the fall of 2008, Congress passed the "Wall Street bailout." It told America that the TARP would work to steady the housing market. It not only didn't steady the housing market, but its purpose was totally changed by Secretary of Treasury Paulson, who gave the money to the biggest banks in our country whose risky behavior caused the meltdown. And Congress, it just looked the other way. Now the housing foreclosure crisis has worsened coast to coast; 2 million Americans have lost their homes, and another 6 to 12 million are projected to lose their homes. Meanwhile, the biggest perpetrators of this disaster--the Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs--have gone from controlling 30 percent of all deposits in this country when this mess began to 40 percent now. The big 5 are just eating us up and taking bigger bonuses too. It is estimated they will reward themselves with that $145 billion in bonuses this year. Credit remains frozen across our country until today, seizing up economic recovery, and this bill calls itself the "Wall Street Reform Bill." This bill, like those before it, will not meet the serious challenges crippling our financial system and it surely will not give a good signal to the future. Congress said the TARP bailout would save us from depression, but TARP passed, and the American people went into depression. Only the big banks were saved. The bills passed by Congress today protect Wall Street and their shareholders. Main Street pays the price. Is this bill a reform bill? No. It will not break up the big banks. It will not create a strong, independent financial institution regulatory agency. It will not separate speculation from investment activity. It will not require loan workouts to stem rising foreclosures. It will not recoup undeserved Wall Street bonuses to help pay for this economic mess and put America back to work. In fact, the bill merely asks for nonbinding votes of shareholders. It will not rein in nonbanking firms, but instead provide them with a golden sandbox. It will not rein in the power of the Federal Reserve. It will not regulate all over-the-counter derivatives. It will not provide the requisite number of FBI agents and prosecutors to put behind bars the financial world's white-collar criminals whose fraudulent behavior caused this mess. It will not bring to justice the wrongdoers at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. There are bills in this House to do that; they're not included in this bill. And it places the Treasury Department, a politically appointed superstructure, so much a part of the problem, in charge of the Finance Services Oversight Council. Importantly, it fails to institute and strengthen independent financial regulatory and supervisory agencies. The political appointees on this oversight council are surely clapping in the wings. This bill gives more power to the opaque Federal Reserve. You know, you would think that after all the damage that has been done in the Republic, this Congress would have the guts for real reform. This bill isn't it, and I urge my colleagues to vote "no" on final passage.
12.07.2009	Currently, approximately 1.3 million active home loans were obtained using VA's Home Loan Guaranty Program, which protects the lender from loss if the borrower fails to repay the loan. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that more than 90 percent of VA-guaranteed loans are made without a down payment. Nonetheless, VA has the lowest serious delinquency rate in the industry as well as the lowest percentage of loans in foreclosure. Depending on the situation, VA loan specialists can intervene on a veteran's behalf to help pursue home-retention options such as repayment plans, loan modifications and forbearance. Additionally, under certain circumstances, VA can refund a loan, which involves purchasing the loan from the mortgage company and modifying the terms so the veteran can afford the new mortgage payment. Since 1944, VA has guaranteed more than 18.7 million home loans worth more than $1 trillion. To obtain more information about the VA Home Loan Guaranty Program, veterans can call Dan Foote in Congresswoman Kaptur's office in Toledo.
12.04.2009	st1\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#ieooui) } @page Section1 {margin: 1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in; size: 8.5in 11.0in; mso-header-margin: .5in; mso-footer-margin: .5in; mso-paper-source: 0; } P.MsoNormal { MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; FONT-SIZE: 12pt; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } LI.MsoNormal { MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; FONT-SIZE: 12pt; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } DIV.MsoNormal { MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; FONT-SIZE: 12pt; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } P { FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; MARGIN-LEFT: 0in; FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN-RIGHT: 0in; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto } DIV.Section1 { page: Section1 }“The biorefinery project represents a significant investment in jobs and a commitment to the economic future of our region,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our area is recognized worldwide as a leader in solar energy, but now we are putting our stake in the ground in another aspect of alternative energy: biofuels.” Kaptur said the project will create at least 100 jobs in the short-term, including construction jobs, with the potential for many more. Federal funding for the project will total $19.9 million and will be derived from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, popularly known as the economic stimulus plan. "Our goal is to put our people to work in an industry that can help America break its dependence on imported petroleum,” Kaptur said. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, came to Toledo to roll out $564 million in Recovery Act funding to accelerate the construction of 19 biorefineries around the country, including the Toledo pilot project. The Toledo project is a key part of the Obama Administration’s strategic initiative for full commercial-scale development of a biomass industry in the United States. “Advanced biofuels are critical to building a cleaner, more sustainable transportation system in the U.S.” said Secretary Chu. “These projects will help establish a domestic industry that will create jobs here at home and open new markets across rural America.” The Toledo pilot plant will refine biodiesel—which Secretary Chu noted will be an end product that requires no additional processing in order to be used in diesel engines—out of agricultural and forest product residue. Secretary Vilsack, a former governor of Iowa, called the project “a new day” and said it offers enhanced economic opportunity for Ohio farmers. "The development of renewable energy is a critical component of our efforts to rebuild and revitalize rural America," Secretary Vilsack said. "This farm bill program is instrumental in increasing our energy independence and expanding new technologies and markets for agricultural and environmental waste material." Kaptur emphasized the importance of alternative energy to an overall strategy to diversify the economic base of Northern Ohio. “This facility can reach so much of the nation. Approximately 100 million people live within a 500-mile radius of Toledo. It really weds our industrial production, our renewable energy expertise and agriculture,” said Kaptur, who serves on the agriculture appropriations subcommittee in the 111th Congress. The Toledo pilot project was selected in a highly competitive process. The applicants include Red Lion Bio-Energy LLC, a Toledo-based firm, along with the California-based Renewable Energy Institute International and Pacific Renewable Fuels.
12.02.2009	“Building a fully operational solar installation, such as the solar plant at the 180th Air National Guard base, illustrates our region’s commitment to alternative energy as a source of jobs in the future,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “Developing a local, domestic source for inverters demonstrates that we’re serious about being a leader in green jobs.” Congresswoman Kaptur also welcomed the announcement of four alternative energy projects in the Ninth Congressional District—three in Toledo and one in Huron—totaling approximately $1.3 million through the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act, popularly known as the federal economic stimulus program. The Ninth Congressional District projects represent approximately 10 percent of the value of all projects statewide, which were initially announced by the governor of Ohio, Ted Strickland. • Toledo Museum of Art. Long recognized as one of the nation's premier art museums, the Toledo Museum of Art will receive $282,264 to install a 100-kilowatt rooftop solar system. The museum, Congresswoman Kaptur said, has pursued green energy for almost two decades. It began replacing gallery lighting with halogen and LED lights in 1992. It installed four microturbines in its power plant in 2004; they now generate a quarter of the museum's electrical power. The latest initiative will build on last year’s installation of 1,450 solar panels on the museum’s roof and give the museum more than 200 kilowatts of solar-generated energy. • Huron-Wind, LLC and the City of Huron. This partnership received $280,500 to install a 100-kilowatt wind turbine. “Wind power is the fastest growing alternative energy source in America,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, “and the Huron project is an opportunity to demonstrate its effectiveness in creating jobs and saving tax dollars.” Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the U.S. Department of Energy hopes to expand the number of distributed wind turbines (1 kilowatt to 1 Megawatt) in the U.S. market fivefold by the year 2015 from a baseline of 2,400 turbines in 2007. • Toledo Zoo. Congresswoman Kaptur welcomed the announcement of $306,837 for installation of a 103-kilowatt solar energy system to generate electricity. Zoo officials said the system, which will be located in the main parking lot, will generate 126,000 kilowatt-hours of green electricity annually and reduce the zoo’s carbon footprint by 172,620 pounds of carbon dioxide. • Toledo Electric Joint Apprentice and Training Committee. Congresswoman Kaptur said a $420,000 award to the Toledo Electric Joint Apprentice and Training Committee will fund installation of a 100-kilowatt wind turbine for use as a hands-on training tool for 1,000 journeymen and apprentices.
11.20.2009	At a time when many communities are facing cuts to basic services due to budget pressure, the Act allows local fire departments to provide training, purchase equipment and vehicles, and hire personnel. “This bill has provided critical funding to fire departments from Sylvania to Oberlin and numerous other communities in the Ninth Congressional District,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “It is vital to safeguarding our families and property.” The bipartisan legislation authorizes a total of $2.2 billion a year in grants for local municipalities to upgrade crucial equipment and maintain adequate levels of personnel. It also makes it easier for local fire departments to access these critical funds by lowering matching requirements and modifying time commitments. “Our local firefighters, both career and volunteer, literally put their lives on the line to protect us,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “They deserve the best training and equipment that we can afford.” The bill was supported by the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the National Fire Protection Association, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute.
11.19.2009	“The purpose of the Jobs Now! Caucus is to take a stand for putting our families, our communities and our nation back to work,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “This caucus will advocate for policy initiatives that stimulate and maintain a strong economy based on sustainable development. It will seek to achieve one common goal across the political spectrum: creating jobs again in America. “By mobilizing the broad membership of Congress, district by district, on a bipartisan basis, our goal is to understand the conditions affecting each district and solicit the best ideas for job creation from Members ‘from the bottom up,’ rather than rely on top-down solutions so typical of Washington-centered policies of the past.” The first order of business for the Jobs Now! Caucus, said Congresswoman Kaptur, will be the introduction of a resolution to express the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States faces a nationwide job crisis that requires a robust policy response. “We know this: the American people want to work,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “A good job is the key to staying in your home, building your community, and keeping our nation strong. We also know that economic recovery means job creation, not just a rising stock market. Double-digit joblessness continues to plague not just the Great Lakes states, but all geographic parts of the country. “Our region’s communities, for example, have served as production platforms as America built a solid middle class. Our region does not simply trade wealth, as do Wall Street and other mega-banking centers. We make wealth. And we don’t accept the fact that Wall Street megabanks are making so much money that they’re able to set aside enough to pay each worker in their investment banking divisions outrageous bonuses that are ten times more than the median annual income of middle-class families.”
11.18.2009	"Back when America had a positive trade balance, people could find jobs,” Kaptur said. “When we started experiencing massive trade deficits, America’s economy started to deteriorate. Good jobs were lost, our economy began to sputter, and our middle class started to shrink as real wages declined despite rising worker productivity.” Congresswoman Kaptur made her comments at a news conference called to mark the upcoming ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Geneva, Switzerland. Kaptur noted that it was 10 years ago that the Seattle Ministerial meeting resulted in the collapse of the Millennium Round as developing nations rejected proposed WTO expansion and mass protests highlighted the political volatility of the trade issue. “The deterioration in our nation’s trade accounts parallels the decline in our economy,” Kaptur said. “We have not had balance in our trade accounts since 1973. It is not a coincidence that the rise in the trade deficit mirrors the loss of manufacturing jobs.” A longtime opponent of corporate managed trade, Congresswoman Kaptur noted that proponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement had promised a jobs boom. Instead, the U.S. has lost thousands of jobs, especially in the manufacturing sector. “Is it any wonder our nation is paying the price of economic policies that led to the current deep recession?” Kaptur said. “This is the direct result of more than a quarter of a century of outsourcing U.S. jobs to ‘penny-wage’ environments, and of allowing other nations to keep their markets closed through managed trade practices, substandard environmental systems, and many undemocratic political systems able to exploit their workforces for the benefit of a few owners.” Kaptur noted that the Bush Administration fought tirelessly to expand financial regulation in the ongoing Doha Round of WTO negotiations and called for a new approach to trade policy that puts people first. “The bedrock principle for any trade policy should be free trade with free people. America’s working families deserve a government that takes their side and fair trade agreements that produce a level playing field," she said.
11.13.2009	The new legislation, which President Obama has signed into law, extends and expands the provisions of the popular homebuyer tax credit program that was implemented earlier this year as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the economic stimulus bill). The new provisions will extend the homebuyer credit to thousands of taxpayers beyond the estimated 1.4 million families who have claimed it already, chiefly by making the credit available for the first time to long-term homeowners buying a replacement principal residence. A previous version of the law limited its provisions to first-time homebuyers. For more information about the credit, go to www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=204671,00.html
11.09.2009	“I promised myself when I was elected to Congress that passing legislation to cover small business would be one of my top priorities,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is serving her fourteenth term. “Finally, it became possible to vote on a bill that will do this for millions of our fellow citizens. This legislation finally provides small businesses the ability to secure affordable health care coverage for their employees and their families.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the Affordable Health Care for America Act will strengthen America and offer greater security to our workers, families, seniors and businesses. “It will enhance our nation’s health care system, placing American healthcare consumers where they belong: at the heart of it,” Kaptur said. “With the mounting economic strain on American families and the rising costs of health insurance to workers, businesses and federal budget, the status quo has proven itself unsustainable, fiscally irresponsible and morally unacceptable. “The time has come for this historical change. I stand in support of its promise to the American people.” Kaptur said the legislation would strengthen the Medicare system. She said an estimated 7,600 seniors in the Ninth Congressional District would benefit from closing the prescription drug “donut hole,” starting with $500 of cost foregiveness in 2010. Earlier in the evening, Kaptur co-sponsored and helped win passage (240-194) of an important amendment that prohibits the use of federal funds for abortions, except in the case of rape, incest and the life of the mother, as has been the law of the land under the Hyde Amendment for 32 years. Kaptur said the Stupak Amendment “maintained existing federal law, the Hyde Amendment, on the compelling issue of abortion. This amendment reaffirms longstanding, existing law, and nothing more. It represents the broad consensus of the American people after 32 years of consideration on this issue.” Kaptur cited several economic reasons for support of the legislation: • The rising cost of health insurance from 7% of median family income in 1987 to 17% now • The correlation between health care costs and bankruptcy • Substantial savings (estimated at $120 million) for hospitals and health care providers in the Ninth Congressional District as a result of reductions in uncompensated care • Strengthening not-for-profit purchasing collaboratives, such as the FrontPath Health Coalition in northwest Ohio, to achieve careful plan management and cost savings • A temporary reinsurance program, capitalized at $10 billion, to help offset the costs of expensive health claims for employers that provide health benefits for retirees age 55-64 Congresswoman Kaptur noted that 60 percent of America’s uninsured population consists of small business owners, workers and their families. “This equals at least 28 million uninsured Americans,” Kaptur said. Premium increases (approximately 130% since 2000) on small business, Kaptur said, “have smothered their potential and destroyed their ability to cover their employees.” Under the House bill, Kaptur said, an estimated 14,500 small businesses will be able to obtain affordable health care coverage, with 12,400 of those businesses eligible for tax credits to help reduce the cost of coverage. Without this bill, family premiums are projected to increase an average of $1,800 per year. With this bill, no American family will have to declare bankruptcy just because a family member got sick.
11.03.2009	The bill is known as the Financial Crisis of 2008 Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Act. “Due to crippling personnel limitations, the FBI has been unable to assign sufficient agents to investigate the current global financial crisis, despite having identified the ‘epidemic’ of fraud in the mortgage markets as early as September 2004,” Kaptur said. The bureau had substantially more personnel and resources to investigate the savings and loan crisis in the 1980s, Kaptur said, even though the 2008 crisis is significantly larger and more widespread. “Given the magnitude of the current crisis, the resulting job losses, and the billions of taxpayer dollars spent to keep the financial system from collapsing, the FBI should have no fewer than 1,000 agents to attack fraudulent activity, uncover any crimes committed, and bring the perpetrators to justice.”
10.22.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur authored the bill to create the National World War II Memorial in 1987.
10.22.2009	“This legislation plays to one of our economic strengths as a region,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who backed the bill after her amendment to the underlying bill was accepted on the House floor. "We are one of three leading solar centers in the hemisphere. Solar power is so much a part of our economic future. “As solar energy continues to emerge as an engine for jobs and economic growth locally, this legislation will make the federal government a stronger, more reliable partner.”The bill instructs the Secretary of Energy to form a committee to write a “roadmap” for short-term and long-term solar technology research and development, much like the successful model that was developed in the semiconductor industry in the 1980s. The roadmap committee would be charged with making solar technology more dependable, available and environmentally responsible. The bill also provides more than $2 billion for new research partnerships and up to 15 major demonstration projects for solar energy technology. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that Northern Ohio has emerged as a national leader in solar technology, thanks to the University of Toledo energy incubator and successful operations by major solar players such as First Solar, Willard & Kelsey, Xunlight, and Advanced Distributed GenerationThe Kaptur Amendment directs the roadmap committee to consider domestic commercialization opportunities, technology transfer, and manufacturing. “We have to ensure that this important initiative is focused on job creation in America and keeping our competitive advantage in the world market,” she said. “We cannot sit back while China, Germany and Spain try to take the lead.” The Kaptur Amendment also specifies that the committee should consider existing solar “clusters” such as Toledo in identifying a national strategy.The legislation creates a coordinated research and development program for solar technology through public-private partnerships. “We have seen in this area the benefit of public-private partnerships through the University of Toledo and various spinoff companies,” Kaptur said. Please click on the video below to watch the Congresswoman's floor speech on this topic.
10.21.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, said bankers, instead of awarding performances, "should try to make up to the country for some of the damage they have caused. It's getting worse all across the country: more unemployment, more foreclosures, more bank closures." Kaptur, a consistent critic of Wall Street, cited "a culture of greed and excess that operates at the highest levels in our culture. We need a country that changes from greed and excess to financial responsibility and prudence, certainly in the banking sector. They should be leaders, but they are part of the problem, not part of the solution." Kaptur also reiterated her call for 1,000 Federal Bureau of Investigation agents who would be assigned to cases of suspected mortgage or securities fraud.
10.14.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur also urged Congress to increase by tenfold the number of FBI agents assigned to mortgage and securities fraud cases. “It’s very easy to look at the budget of the FBI in mortgage fraud and securities fraud and say, 'How serious is the government?' And until those numbers increase, we will not begin to get justice,” she said. Kaptur was joined on the highly-acclaimed public affairs program by Simon Johnson, former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund. Kaptur said “imprudent, irresponsible” behavior by large banks often involved fraud. “They have really gambled,” she said, “and when they lost their shifted their losses to the taxpayer… “What they’re doing is taking their mistakes and they’re dumping them on the taxpayer—you and I. The long-term debt of our country and our children and grandchildren—it’s all at risk because of their behavior… “It’s socialism for the big banks. Because they've basically taken their mistakes and they've put it on the taxpayer. That's the government. That's socialism. That isn't capitalism.” Moyers noted that Kaptur has a prominent role in “Capitalism, a Love Story,” the new film by Oscar-winning filmmaker Michael Moore. Kaptur charged Congress with failing to rein in the large financial institutions. “The laws of Congress passed last year in terms of housing were hollow… Foreclosures in my area have gone up 94 percent. And we know the basic rules of economics. Housing leads us to recovery. Housing was the precipitating factor in this economic downturn. Unless you deal with the housing sector, you aren't going to have growth in this economy.” She said homeowners who are facing foreclosure “deserve justice, too. And the scales of justice in front of the Supreme Court are supposed to be balanced, and they’re not.” Homeowners have a right to legal representation, she said, and “a right before the judge to have the mortgage note produced by whomever in the system has it.” Kaptur has urged homeowners facing foreclosure to be “squatters in your own homes.” Asked by Moyers whether President Obama should fire Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner and National Economic Counselor Larry Summers, Kaptur said, “I don’t think any individuals who had their hands on creating this mess should be in charge of cleaning it up. I honestly don’t think they’re capable of it…When Lincoln ran into trouble, during the Civil War, he got new generals. He brought in Grant. I hope that President Obama will bring in some new generals on the financial front.” Congress, she charged, “has really shut down. I’m disappointed in both chambers, because wouldn't you think, with the largest financial crisis in American history, in the largest transfer of wealth from the American people to the biggest banks in this country, that every committee of Congress would be involved in hearings, that this would be on the news, that people would be engaged in this? “What we’re seeing is tangential hearings on very arcane aspects of financial reform. For example, now we're going to have a consumer protection agency to help the poor consumer, who doesn't understand all of this, rather than hearings on the fundamental new architecture of reforming the American financial system, so that we have prudent lending, capital accumulation at the local level again; that we encourage savings and limit debt by the American people. Our country needs this. Those aren't the hearings that are happening.” She said deregulation of financial services “opened the floodgates” to the current economic crisis. “All the abuses and the irresponsible and imprudent behavior of the 1990s … led to this. Nobody did anything. They just kept opening more floodgates to them. And then with the removal of Glass-Steagall in 1999 …we just gave them total abandon. And they took it.” Congresswoman Kaptur also repeated her call to take the money out of politics.
10.07.2009	The Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act authorizes Congress to approve veterans’ medical care funding a year in advance in order to better anticipate and meet the demand for veterans health care services. The advanced funding will give the VA up to one full year to plan for the most effective and efficient way of delivering medical care. If the Senate approves the bill, it will go to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. “Our veterans, including the fifty thousand who live in the Ninth District, deserve the best service our nation can provide,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “They have served with honor and they deserve to be treated with dignity. This bill makes it easier to access VA’s medical services so that our veterans have full access to quality health care.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act builds on a record of accomplishment by the 111th Congress on behalf of veterans, pointing to the new G.I. Bill, improvements at veterans hospitals and facilities, and expanded economic opportunities for returning soldiers.
09.26.2009	“It is not fair, during these tough economic times, to put additional burdens on our seniors and people with disabilities,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. The House voted 406-18 to pass the Medicare Premium Fairness Act. Under current law, for almost three quarters of all Medicare enrollees, the Medicare Part B premium cannot increase more than the cost of living adjustment for Social Security, which is likely to be zero next year. (Part B covers physician and outpatient care and is deducted from Social Security checks.) This bill would ensure that 2010 Part B premiums will remain at $96.40 per month. Without congressional action, approximately one in four Medicare enrollees will see their Part B premiums increase to $110 or even $120 per month. Those who will see this premium increase would include: low-income dual eligibles, paid for by the states; higher-income Medicare beneficiaries; new Medicare enrollees; and, enrollees whose Medicare payments are not deducted from their Social Security checks. Congresswoman Kaptur stressed that the House action would not add to the deficit because the estimated cost of the bill $2.8 billion) is fully paid for through financing from the Medicare Improvement Fund.
09.18.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} The federal award, Kaptur said, will be augmented by a previously-announced $2.78 million state loan and $1 million BAX commitment in order to secure 800 existing jobs and open the door to new air cargo service and more jobs to the site. "This award, which further enhances Toledo's reputation as a global distribution center, will create good-paying construction jobs and retain hundreds of jobs at the BAX facility," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "Air cargo is a crucial piece of Toledo's multi-modal transportation advantage." The federal award is the centerpiece of a $7.2 million funding package to build a customs facility and truck terminal at the BAX hub and relocate the hub's maintenance Congresswoman Kaptur was also joined at the event by Michael J. Stolarczyk, president of the port authority, and Ford Weber, president of the LCIC. Mr. Stolarczyk said the project would make the air cargo operations at Toledo Express more competitive. "Once complete, the BAX Global cargo hub will be the premier international air cargo facility in the country--a truly efficient, loow-cost, high throughput operation. Toledo Express Airport has an economic impact of $640 million for northwest Ohio. Reinvestments in this regional asset, such as this grant and the $1 million commitment from BAX Global, ensure our viability and encourage growth." Mr. Stolarczyk said the Toledo facility is not only "low cost," but benefits from proximity to "every mode of transportation known to man," including highway, rail, waterborne and air. Representative Szollosi said, "Our message to the people of Northwest Ohio is clear: this is about jobs." Congresswoman Kaptur said, "Distribution is one of our area's strategic advantages due to our location. This expansion allows us to position ourselves to be more efficient and competitive and to lead the way in intermodal distribution." Kaptur noted that the number of logistics terminals and services is shrinking, pointing to the loss of the DHL facility in Wilmington. She said intermodal transportations connections are becoming increasingly important factors when companies make crucial site selection decisions. Kaptur has been involved in efforts to promote multi-modal transportation opportunities in the area, including a visit to Nova Scotia to work on the "Atlantic Gateway" concept. Toledo Express has emerged as the main hub for BAX Global on the North American continent. BAX, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn AG, one of the largest mobility and logistics companies in the world, operates a 300,000 square-foot facility, including 4,500 square feet of cold storage, at Toledo Express. BAX operates approximately 20 domestic and international flights daily at the Toledo airport, offering capacity to freight forwarding firms. The expansion project will involve a sorting facility that can accommodate wide-body aircraft and greater capacity to handle bulk loads and a "cross dock" to expedite the transfer of material between airplanes and trucks, improving overall efficiency and reducing inventory storage costs. Congresswoman Kaptur said the project is expected to take 12-18 months to complete. She noted that Toledo Express enjoys easy access to deepwater port facilities, the third largest rail center in the United States, and major highway access via the Ohio Turnpike/I-75 Corridor, which is located within 500 miles of 50 percent of the U.S. and Canadian industrial markets.
09.15.2009	The statement: "Economically, culturally, and politically, Latinos are a vital part of our nation. As the fastest growing ethnic group in our country, the Hispanic community makes America a better and stronger nation. Almost 48 million Hispanic Americans exercise more than $600 billion in purchasing power. "In our own communities in Northern Ohio, the Hispanic community has made tremendous strides in all walks of life. Truly, Hispanic cultural contributions have enrichened the marvelous tapestry of American social life. "Despite the growth and progress of our Hispanic community, many families have not fared well economically over the last several years. During the eight years of the Bush Administration, Hispanic median household income in America fell by $3,557, 2.8 million more Hispanics joined the ranks of the uninsured, and 3.2 million more Hispanics fell below the poverty level. "I am proud to celebrate the contributions and heritage of our country's Hispanic community. All Latinos, like all Americans, deserve a meaningful opportunity to achieve the American Dream. "We are a stronger, more vibrant nation as a result of the contributions of Hispanic citizens. "Adelante!"
09.03.2009	Dignitaries from throughout Europe, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Russian President Vladimir Putin, observed an honor guard place wreaths at a war monument in Gdansk. The German battleship Schleswig-Holstein began shelling Polish military positions on the Westerplatte peninsula in Gdansk before dawn on September 1, 1939, marking the beginning of World War II. By the time the war ended in 1945, more than 60 million soldiers and civilians had been killed, but no other nation suffered more than Poland, where one in six persons died. “This has been a phenomenal journey into time and liberty,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is of Polish descent. “May the world remember and dedicate itself to liberty’s cause, in its full manifestation, in this new millennium.” The United States, Kaptur said, was the indispensible actor in resolving the great human tragedy of the Second World War and turning back Nazism. “It is awe inspiring to see the potential for the new century in Europe.” Kaptur traveled to Poland along with 95-year-old Marian Wojciechowski, who was serving in the Polish Army when the Nazis attacked. Mr. Wojciechowski, who lived in Toledo for many years before retiring to Las Vegas, spoke at various ceremonies during the week and urged the Polish people to raise the next generation of leaders. “He is a real hero,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, “and he was recognized as such at all the ceremonies. I am honored to have been his traveling companion on this journey of a lifetime—a journey into the past with a glimpse of the future.” The U.S. delegation at today’s official ceremonies was led by Gen. James L. Jones (ret.), who serves as National Security Adviser to President Obama. It also included Victor Ashe, U.S. Ambassador to Poland, and Elizabeth-Sherwood-Randall, special assistant to the president and senior director for Europe for the National Security Council.
08.29.2009	Kaptur, the senior woman in the U.S. House, of Polish American heritage, had urged the Administration by official lether, to send a high-ranking delegation to attend the historic ceremonies that will commemorate the start of World War II as well as Poland's 10th anniversary of admission to NATO, and the 20th anniversary of Solidarity's victory. The White House announced late in August that an official delegation led by National Security Advisor Gen. Jim Jones, USMC (Ret) will now attend the commemorations. In addition to Jones and Kaptur, the delegation will include U.S. Ambassador to Poland Victor Ashe and Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council. Kaptur is in Poland in advance of the delegation arrival with former Toledoan Marian Wojciechowski, who is a veteran of the Polish Cavalry in World War II and now 95 years of age. He fought as a member of the Polish Cavalry and later in the Underground Home Army against the Nazis and Communists 70 years ago. For his valor and that of his colleagues, Wojciechowski was awarded Poland 's highest military medal, the "Virtuti Miliare." Wojciechowski, who was ultimately captured by the Gestapo, brutally tortured in Radom and during imprisonment for three years at Auschwitz , Gros Rosen, and Leitmeritz concentration camps. His life was saved once by a Jewish doctor, and he ultimately escaped with two of his colleagues in a daring night march in a wooded area of Poland as prisoners were being transferred from one location to another. He ultimately moved to Toledo where he lived for 50 years, worked and raised his family. His life story is recounted in the book: "Seven Roads to Freedom."Prior to leaving for Gdansk, Kaptur is touring the western front sites of the Battle at Mokra, in which Mr. Wojciechowski fought and the site of the start of the war September 1, 1939. On this trip, she has traveled throughout the nation, to all its regions, as a goodwill ambassador. World leaders from all European nations, and many other nations, will be present at Gdansk . Kaptur, who introduced legislation to create the WW II Memorial in Washington DC -- a two decade long labor of love and gratitude -- has been a lifelong champion for liberty in the former Nazi and Communist-held lands in Central Europe. She Co-Chairs the Ukrainian Caucus, is a Member of the US House Polish Caucus, and received the World Council of Credit Unions A highest award for legislation she passed to open Poland to the credit union movement. Kaptur said: "I know on whose sacrificial shoulders I am standing as I build freedom forward as a U.S. Representative. At every site, I pay deep homage to those who fell and fought in freedom's cause, against overwhelming odds. We walk on sacred soil. May the world remember and dedicate itself to liberty's cause, in its full manifestation, in this new millennium."
08.26.2009	“Senator Edward Kennedy was a true champion for social justice and a friend always to the poorest of Americans. Whether he was fighting to protect workers, to insure care for our seniors, or seeking access to quality education for young people, Ted Kennedy’s resolve for a better America was a beacon of hope for millions. Senator Kennedy's leadership, compassion, courage, and endless optimism reminded us that to dream is to open the window to opportunity. Creating opportunity for others was his life’s cause. Today, we recommit ourselves to that cause in his memory. We send our thoughts and prayers to Senator Kennedy’s devoted wife Vicki and to his children Kara, Teddy Jr., and Patrick, my colleague in the House, whose lives were such a source of pride for their father. As we mourn his loss to us, I hope our prayers and fond reminiscences will be a comfort to each of them.”
08.21.2009	Wojciechowski, who celebrated his 95th birthday this year and lived and raised a family in Toledo, Ohio, now resides in Las Vegas, Nevada. Wojciechowski, a Polish Cavalry Platoon Commander, experienced the invasion of his homeland by the Nazis and then three weeks later, the Soviet Red Army, on the Eastern front. Polish armed forces fought the two powerful enemies alone, with no initial support from Allied troops. Rep. Kaptur hopes to honor all those soldiers who served and sacrificed in the events that would initiate World War II. At the time of the invasion, Mr. Wojciechowski (then 25), was a platoon commander in the Polish cavalry. He served in the 21st regiment -- Pulk Ulanow Nadwislanskich of the Wolhynian Cavalry Brigade. This regiment, assisted by a Polish artillery train to blast enemy tanks, fought courageously at Mokra, a small town near Czestochowa. The Battle of Mokra would later be assessed as a strategic victory for the Polish cavalry against the superior German tanks and air power. Despite the Nazi’s strength, the Polish Calvary inflicted surprisingly heavy losses on the German forces. On September 11, 1939, in a forest near Osuchow, Wojciechowski’s group of Polish cavalrymen and foot soldiers from various regiments continued to fight. Finally, they were encircled by German forces. Out of ammunition and medicine, the situation forced the Polish infantry commander to decide to surrender in order to save the wounded. However, the cavalry commander refused to surrender and suddenly ordered a charge. Mr. Wojciechowski, following the commander’s charge, drew his saber and cut through German infantry ranks. Although he survived, a fellow soldier from his home town of Polaniec thought he saw him shot and reported his death to his mother, who held a funeral mass for Marian. Fortunately, Mr. Wojciechowski survived and went on to fight the Soviets who attacked on September 17, 1939. Later, Mr. Wojciechowski joined the underground resistance, was arrested and tortured by the Gestapo, and sent to Auschwitz. Meanwhile, Wladyslawa Poniecka, a young Polish girl scout and also a member of the underground, was arrested with her entire family in Warsaw, sent to the Gestapo prison Pawiak, and was transported to Ravensbruck, a notorious women's concentration camp north of Berlin. Polish Christian women there were subjected to pseudo-medical experiments, including sterilization. After the war, Marian and Wladyslawa met in a refugee camp in Germany, married, had a daughter, and came to America in 1950 under the Displaced Persons Act. They were sponsored by Mr. Wojciechowski's cousins in Toledo, Ohio which became their adopted hometown where they published the polish language newspaper Ameryka-Echo for over seven years. Marian built his career in neighborhood and community development in Toledo and is widely acclaimed for his pioneering work in the restoration of the city’s historic Old West End. It was during this time that the Wojciechowski’s befriended Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, who attended Saint Ursula Academy with their daughter. Today, Mr. Wojciechowski is revisiting the sites and commemorating the events that transpired 70 years ago in a war that changed the world. The group accompanying Mr. Wojciechowski includes Dr. Roman Rozycki, a physician and the leader of the Polish community in Las Vegas, Craig Wojciechowski, Mr. Wojciechowski's grandson, with his fiancée Jodi Benjamin, also of Las Vegas and Rep. Kaptur. They will be traveling to various towns in Poland of historical significance, including the Mokra battlefield, the cavalry school at Grudziadz, and Auschwitz. In addition Kaptur will visit the hometowns of her Polish ancestors in the Gniezno region. This unique journey is about history, family and heritage. Marcy Kaptur first travelled to Soviet-dominated Poland, Ukraine, then Czechoslovakia and Hungary as a private citizen with her mother Anastasia Rogowska Kaptur in 1973 and 1975. They travelled by car in search of a family history that had been lost since the early 20th century. Congresswoman Kaptur represents Ohio’s Ninth Congressional district. Now in her fourteenth term, she is the longest serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives. Of Polish-American heritage and a granddaughter of immigrants, Kaptur knows the price of liberty and the cost of repression. Throughout her life, she has been a steadfast ambassador to Central Europe, a Member of the Polish, Ukrainian, and Russian Caucuses in the U.S. House of Representatives, and the first woman in U.S. history to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. Upon Poland's independence in 1989, Kaptur passed legislation to establish credit unions in Poland where a successful network has been established. For that effort, she received the highest international award of the World Council of Credit Unions. In addition, Kaptur has been a supporter of development assistance for Poland, passage of the visa waiver for Poland, and Poland's admission to NATO. Additionally, Kaptur and her brother Stephen established two small private charities, in honor of her parents – the Kaptur Community Fund and the Anastasia Fund – that contribute to humanitarian causes in the United States and throughout the globe. Congresswoman Kaptur authored the legislation that created the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C., influenced by her family history of military service and the brave men and women who sacrificed life for liberty. “I am honored to accompany this son of Poland and of Toledo as a husband, father, and grandfather; as a learned man and newspaper publisher; as a city housing and development official; and as a living example of an indomitable spirit with a heart of gold who continues to inspire the thousands upon thousands of people whose lives he has touched through his life and continual work,” said Kaptur. “Truly, he is an extraordinary man. And like Generals Kosciusko and Pulaski, who gave themselves to America's Revolution, Marian Wojciechowski understands that the ideal of liberty knows no geo-political boundaries. It resides deep in the human spirit and requires sacrifice. Marian fully embodies that noble idea and that courageous sacrifice,” the Congresswoman concluded. Congresswoman Kaptur has personally funded her travel; it is not a government expense. More information on Congresswoman Kaptur's visit to Poland is available at: https://poland.usembassy.gov/embassy-events-2009/congresswoman-marcy-kaptur-visits-warsaw-21-august-2009.htmland athttps://poland.usembassy.gov/embassy-events-2009/journey-to-poland-95-year-old-world-war-ii-veteran-visits-warsaw-20-august-2009.html
08.18.2009	“I am supporting an improved health system that puts you in charge rather than someone else making a decision about your health care and gives you more options—more options for doctors and more options for insurance,” Kaptur responded to one of the participants in the web chat. “The state systems haven’t worked very well, so we’re trying to provide more options with better managed care where you have a carrier with doctors that that you pick that help you manage your family’s health needs more wisely, rather than just than just sort of a set of transactions that occur between yourself, let’s say, a procedure and the insurance company. “The goal is to try to get you into a plan that you pick, where you feel you have very carefully monitored care, that you participate in, so nobody’s left out, nobody’s rejected and you have choices. That sounds like a much better system than we have today for so many people. If you like what you have, you keep it… “The private market is becoming more expensive and more restrictive. And we have to somehow as a country decide, if we’re spending so much money on health insurance and health care, why aren’t we getting better outcomes? Maybe we need to organize the way that choices are made available, maybe we need to figure out how to negotiate these prescription drug prices to help people have better outcomes. “The goal is to try provide a more streamlined and better system.” Kaptur said one of her objectives is to strengthen provisions for home health care. As currently written, she said, the House bill “gives far too much to the nursing home industry and not enough emphasis to the home caregiver.” She noted in response to other questions that the bill “does not cover anyone here (in the United States) illegally” and that the Hyde Amendment would continue to prohibit the use of federal funds for abortions except in the case of rape, incest or life of the mother. “We simply have to do something,” she said. “More and more people are falling off their insurance.”
08.17.2009	“I am one member that is dedicated to helping our small business community obtain competitive and very good coverage,” she said in response to a question. “The way in which businesses have an opportunity to access insurance in the bill is a work in progress. Nonetheless, the bill does have some major provisions that suggest how this can happen—either they can keep the plan they have or in the insurance exchange they can opt in, select from there, or go into the non-profit plan that is created on the exchange. “There are some pretty serious disincentives in the bill … to discourage existing businesses from dumping their insured populations into the not-for-profit plan and frankly that is one part of the bill that needs a lot of intense scrutiny to make sure it is working for all. I have a very high priority in my mind to develop a plan that is truly workable for small business.” Congresswoman Kaptur stressed the importance of everyone having “a medical home” in order to prevent cost shifting, which is inefficient. “In my district, almost 57,000 people have no health insurance,” she said, noting that emergency room care is particularly expensive… Exorbitant costs are riddled through the system when people don’t have a medical home. It costs all of us in the end. If they don’t have insurance, the cost of their care is shifted to other plans.” The House version of health care reform would mean “if you have insurance, you can keep it,” she said. “The most important step one can take is to make sure that you belong to a plan . . . that you in fact have a medical home. I’m not satisfied, though I’m trying, to get this concept of responsible group management into this bill … Just because you belong to a plan doesn’t mean that plan is well managed.” Hosted by Dan Multhrop, “The Sound of Ideas” is an award-winning public affairs radio program on WCPN, which covers not only Cleveland, but also the eastern portion of the Ninth Congressional District, including Lorain and Erie counties. A podcast of "A Congressional Townhall Meeting" can be heard at https://www.wcpn.org/index.php/WCPN/soi/27396/
08.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} The majority of questions pertained to health care and the current reform proposals. Congresswoman Kaptur was joined on telephone town hall meeting by Dr. Ken Bertka, a family physician, and Wendell Primus, a health care advisor to House Democrats. Under the Democratic reform proposals, "if you like your current plan, you keep it," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "If you don't like it, or if you don't have any insurance, the bill being developed will provide additional options for you under a health insurance exchange . . . You keep what you have if you like it. That is fundamental, because we have a 50-state insurance system and the goal of this is to give you more choices than you have today." She said Americans would have a better choice of insurance plans and would still choose their doctors and health care providers. Kaptur restated her strong support of Medicare, the government health care program for seniors, and said current reform proposals are aimed at strengthening Medicare, not weakening it. Medicare currently covers almost 45 million Americans, including more than 1.8 million Ohioans. Congresswoman Kaptur noted the "misinformation" that is being spread about health care reform. "It’s true that the insurance companies that have been operating in the 50 states, and sometimes have monopolies in a given market, and the pharmaceutical companies are uncomfortable and they are putting up a fight to try to avoid any change . . . If we want to talk about economic growth, 17% of our economy is devoted to the health insurance, and that is double what is spent in all Western democracies that have a standard of living equal or better than ours. Why is that? One of the reason is there are some exorbitant profits being made across this system." She said that "end of life" counseling would be covered in the bill, but not required for any patient. "The only language in the bill that deals with this just encourages, if you’re in a plan, for you to talk about this with your physician," she said. Dr. Bertka said the reform proposal "actually allows Medicare to pay for end-of-life counseling for those patients who want it ... There's nothing in the bill that mandates it. It's up to the patient and their physician." Congresswoman Kaptur said small business is a special area of concern to her, noting that 27 million Americans who work in small businesses lack health insurance. "I am determined as a member of Congress to cover small business. I want to get it right for small business. There are enormous opportunities in this bill for small business. I’ve been meeting with the small business community in order to try to clarify and understand if they are comfortable with this because there are a lot of small businesses that have insurance that are satisfied with their plans. Most of them that I meet with don’t like them because they are too expensive, they have too many exclusions, or they can’t get insurance period, particularly those that have three to 10 employees." Congresswoman Kaptur also took questions about pension coverage, green energy jobs in Northwest Ohio, and the growing percentage of U.S. debt held by foreign interests, particularly China. To listen a recording of the telephone town hall, click on the large icon on the right hand side of Congresswoman Kaptur's home page. It has occupied a prominent place on the home page since last Friday morning with a photograph of a microphone and words that read, "Listen to Our Recent Tele-Town Hall Meeting." Just move your cursor onto that "icon," and double click to download the recording. It's easy!
08.03.2009	st1\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#ieooui) } @font-face { font-family: Georgia; } @page Section1 {size: 8.5in 11.0in; margin: 1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in; mso-header-margin: .5in; mso-footer-margin: .5in; mso-paper-source: 0; } P.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } LI.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } DIV.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman" } P { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN-LEFT: 0in; MARGIN-RIGHT: 0in; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto } DIV.Section1 { page: Section1 }Congresswoman Kaptur said legislation, which Congress passed last year, provides eligible service personnel and veterans the economic support they would need to pursue higher education at such institutions such as the University of Toledo , Bowling Green State University , and Owens Community College . Kaptur said her office has prepared a constituent information package that contains detailed information about the Post-9/11 GI Bill, which she called the “most extensive program to help our veterans with college expenses since the original GI Bill in 1944.” The Post-9/11 GI Bill is geared to veterans and service personnel (including Reservists and the National Guard) with at least 90 days of aggregate service on or after September 11, 2001, or individuals who were discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days. To be eligible for benefits under the Post-9/11 GI Bill, a service member must have received an honorable discharge. Generally speaking, the longer the service, the higher the level of assistance. Tuition and fees are paid directly to the school by the Veterans Administration and must not exceed the maximum in-state tuition and fees at a public institution of higher learning. Kaptur also noted that the Yellow Ribbon program, another provision of the new GI Bill, makes educational opportunities at private institutions such as Lourdes College and Oberlin College available to: a) veterans and service personnel who have served at least 36 months since September 10, 2001; b) veterans who were honorably discharged from active duty for a service-related disability after serving at least 30 continuous days after September 10, 2001; or, 3) in some cases, their dependents. The Yellow Ribbon program allows degree-granting institutions to enter voluntarily into a formal agreement with the Veterans Administration to provide assistance when tuition and fees exceed the highest public, in-state undergraduate rates. The institution can contribute up to 50% of those costs and VA will match this additional funding for eligible students. Also participating in the Yellow Ribbon Program at Mercy College of Northwest Ohio and Herzing University in Toledo as well as ITT Technical Institute in Maumee . Kaptur said the VA expects large numbers of veterans and service members to sign up for the new program. The VA has already received more than 80,000 claims for education benefits during since Veterans and service members could apply online. Up to 460,000 students are expected to participate in the program during the first year.
07.24.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur supported the minimum wage increase, which passed the House with bipartisan support (348-73) as part of an emergency supplemental appropriations bill in May 2007. An employee who works 40 hours a week at the federal minimum wage would now gross $15,080 a year. A family with a full-time minimum wage earner would see its monthly income increase by approximately $120. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis noted that two thirds of America’s minimum-wage workers are women. The U.S. Department of Labor reported that millions of workers in 30 states and the District of Columbia will benefit from the wage increase. The minimum wage in Ohio, established by state law, is $7.35 an hour for non-tipped workers or $3.65 for tipped workers (defined as workers who customarily receive at least $30 a month in tips). Many states have minimum wage laws with provisions that differ from the federal law. When an employer is subject to both, the employer must pay the higher of the two rates. Employers and employees seeking more compliance information on the increased minimum wage should call the Wage and Hour Division hotline at 800-4US-WAGE (800-487-9243).
07.23.2009	The statutory PAYGO bill requires Congress to pay for tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending with other budget savings. “Our nation must confront the enormous deficits and debt we’re facing,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “By passing statutory PAYGO, the House has taken a step in favor of fiscal responsibility. Congress should make the same hard choices that families make when they balance their own budgets.” The House-passed PAYGO bill is similar to the law that was in place during the Clinton Administration, which helped turn massive deficits into record surpluses. Congress allowed these rules to expire in 2002, which contributed to the deterioration of the budget position from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of more than $11 trillion. Exceptions are authorized in the event of a national emergency so that Congress can respond quickly if necessary. The bill contains consequences for not paying for legislation, which will ensure compliance with the PAYGO rules: if the net effect of all legislation enacted during a session of Congress increases the deficit, the law would implement a sequester (across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs). Programs that assist low-income Americans would be protected, as would Social Security, and the effect on Medicare would be limited.
07.17.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur today announced a $30 million boost to efforts to upgrade and replace engines at the Toledo-based 180th Air National Guard Fighter Wing. “This is an investment in the future of the 180th in Toledo as the most modern fighter wing in America ,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the influential House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. The funding was approved by the Subcommittee this morning in its markup and approval of the Fiscal Year 2010 defense appropriations bill. Due to intermittent efforts by the Department of Defense to downsize bases, a process known at the Base Realignment and Closure process (BRAC), Kaptur made fully funding all engine replacements at the base in Fiscal Year 2010 her top committee priority this year. “Bringing the base to full operational preparedness with the most up to date engines, is an investment in the base’s competitiveness in future BRAC processes,” said Kaptur. The funding will complete installation of 18 engines in F-16 fighter jets. Jets in the 180th Fighter Wing were deployed in the Iraq War in 2005 and 2007. Personnel from the Fighter Wing continue to rotate on missions in the current wars in the Middle East. Kaptur said the engine upgrade program provides a cost-effective method of upgrading fighter performance at a fraction of the cost of new aircraft. It also provides a 20 percent improvement in jet thrust and improved performance. This new investment will complete engine replacement process years ahead of schedule and augments a previously slow moving effort, hampered by a lack of funding. The new Pratt & Whitney 229 engines provide immediate improved combat capability to the F-16s existing Block 42 engines. The engines alone cost approximately $5.5 million each. Kaptur had previously secured incremental funding for the engine program of about $12 million a year in 2006, 2007 and 2008. “The 180th Toledo Fighter Wing is a model unit for Air National Guard modernization. It is the most modern base in Ohio . With forward thinking Guard leadership, it has been an honor to assist the unit in its important efforts to modernize, and to steadily improve its operational capabilities, delivering $80 million in base investments over the last ten years,” said Kaptur. The 180th Fighter Wing’s primary mission is to train and stand ready with units for active duty in the event of a national emergency or war. The unit consists of several support functions, including security forces, engineering, communications, aircraft maintenance, food services, transportation, human resources and medics. More than 1,000 people are employed by the unit, which is estimated to contribute $85 million in payroll and local purchases to the local economy annually. Congresswoman Kaptur discusses the importance of the 180th FIghter Wing to our community.
07.17.2009	“This is an investment in the future of the 180th in Toledo as the most modern fighter wing in America,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the influential House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. The funding was approved by the subcommittee in the Fiscal Year 2010 defense appropriations bill. Due to periodic efforts by the Defense Department to downsize bases (a process known at the Base Realignment and Closure process, or BRAC), Rep. Kaptur made full funding of all engine replacements at the 180th base her top committee priority in this fiscal year. The funding will complete installation of 18 engines in F-16 fighter jets. “Bringing the base to full operational preparedness with the most up to date engines is an investment in the base’s competitiveness in future BRAC processes,” Kaptur said. Jets from the 180th Fighter Wing were deployed in the Iraq War in 2005 and 2007. Personnel from the Fighter Wing continue to rotate on missions in the current wars in the Middle East. Kaptur said the engine upgrade program provides a cost-effective method of upgrading fighter performance at a fraction of the cost of new aircraft. It also provides a 20 percent improvement in jet thrust and improved performance. This new investment will complete engine replacement process years ahead of schedule and will augment a previously slow moving effort that was hampered by a lack of funding. The new Pratt & Whitney 229 engines provide immediate improved combat capability to the F-16s' existing Block 42 engines. Each engine costs approximately $5.5 million. Kaptur had previously secured incremental funding for the engine program of about $12 million a year in 2006, 2007 and 2008. “The 180th Toledo Fighter Wing is a model unit for Air National Guard modernization. It is the most modern base in Ohio. With forward thinking Guard leadership, it has been an honor to assist the unit in its important efforts to modernize and to steadily improve its operational capabilities, delivering $80 million in base investments over the last ten years,” Kaptur said. The unit consists of several support functions, including security forces, engineering, communications, aircraft maintenance, food services, transportation, human resources and medics. More than 1,000 people are employed by the unit, which is estimated to contribute $85 million in payroll and local purchases to the local economy annually. Congresswoman Kaptur discusses the importance of the 180th Fighter Wing to the Toledo community.
07.14.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur said the U.S. Department of Transportation award is designated for repair of the sole commercial ferry dock and replacement of the dilapidated passenger and freight terminal building on the island. “These improvements will enhance Middle Bass Island’s significant appeal as a tourist destination,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “More than half the nation’s population lives within a day’s drive of Ohio, and the Lake Erie Islands are increasingly a ‘value proposition’ for families looking for an affordable vacation.” Kaptur said the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) is designed to stimulate economic activity and create jobs through infrastructure improvements. “This is the type of federal investment that will not only create short-term jobs in construction but also help build a sustainable local economy for years to come,” she said. The state department of natural resources opened a new marina on Middle Bass two weeks ago as part of a master plan of improvements. Also in the works are a $1 million renovation of the former Lonz Winery complex, new water and sewer systems, a bikepath and pedestrian walkway, and projects to protect the island's nationally-significant natural areas, which are prime locations for birding and fishing. Vice President Joe Biden recently announced that $19 billion has been obligated to fund more than 5,300 highway and transportation projects under the ARRA. Nineteen hundred projects are already underway.
07.10.2009	Rep. Kaptur today described the St. Lawrence Seaway “the vital link of commerce between our nation’s heartland and world markets” and a powerful engine for job growth. She urged continued investment in the system of canals, channels and locks that connect Northern Ohio and America’s heartland to world markets. Congresswoman Kaptur joined U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and other officials from the U.S. and Canada at ceremonies to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 265-mile-long seaway. “The Seaway we have come to know is an efficient channel of waterborne and intermodal transportation, commerce and renewable hydropower,” Kaptur remarked. “The Seaway serves a strong production platform as the fulcrum of the Great Lakes states. It supports the entire U.S. economy with a strong foundation built of an abundant and sustainable agriculture and a superstructure of heavy manufacturing.” Kaptur gave tribute to “the visionaries, the dreams, pioneers, sailors, engineers and political leaders” who helped build and modernize the seaway. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Queen Elizabeth II and Canadian Prime Minister John Diefenbaker ceremonially opened the seaway in 1959 and Eisenhower’s granddaughter, Susan, attended today’s anniversary ceremonies. The challenge now, Congresswoman Kaptur said, is to “leverage the Seaway’s assets forward--its location, its economy and its unmet potential.” She noted the importance of the Seaway to the economy of Northern Ohio, including Toledo, Port Clinton and Sandusky. More than 2.5 billion tons of cargo have moved through the Seaway in the past half century, including grain shipments from the Port of Toledo that have exceeded two million tons in certain years. Congresswoman Kaptur, who visited Nova Scotia last year to explore multi-modal transportation opportunities in the region, said the Seaway is “the linchpin in our transportation web.” She said she envisions “sophisticated, modern, cost-effective multi-modal distribution hubs that can skirt the congestion in coastal ports.” Investments in Seaway infrastructure, she said, represent “investments in our economic and democratic future. Let us rededicate ourselves in this new century to a renewed destiny for the St. Lawrence Seaway. Let us lead it to its full potential.” Read More: Toledo Blade editorial, "Expand the Seaway "
07.09.2009	“Agriculture is Ohio’s biggest business, and this legislation will help grow our economy forward and propel job creation by building higher technology, sustainable agricultural opportunities across our region,” said Kaptur, a member of the agriculture appropriations subcommittee. The bill funds the U.S. Department of Agriculture, America’s primary department for the production of food, fiber, forestry and fuel, for the fiscal year 2010. Kaptur noted that the bill significantly increases attention to production of agriculturally-based biofuels, food safety, nutrition for the elderly, children, the unemployed and the needy, investment in rural areas and agricultural enterprises in urban counties, and conserves national resources. Due to rising unemployment, she said, the bill includes $5 million to implement Hunger-Free Community grants for promotion, outreach and demonstration projects, and technical assistance to community gardens, community-supported agriculture and linkages between farmers and local markets. The bill expands the Senior Farmers Market Nutrition program, for which Kaptur wrote the initial legislative language as a member of the appropriations committee. The popular program has provided more than $10 million in fresh fruits and vegetables to eligible senior citizens and created an important new market for local farmers since it was implemented in 2001. It also provides expanded funding for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program and permits states to use up to 10 percent of the funds provided for purchasing Temporary Emergency Food Products to help with the costs of storing, transporting and distributing commodities. The bill also provides continuing support for aquaculture, a potential growth industry in Northern Ohio, and expands eligibility for two rural development programs to urban communities-- food products and energy.
07.01.2009	The Great Lakes states would benefit from creation of a new regional power marketing authority thanks to a key amendment that Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur succeeded in placing in the climate change legislation that the House of Representative passed on Friday evening. The Kaptur amendment, included in the manager’s amendment to H.R. 2484, authorizes the Secretary of Energy to authorize a power marketing authority with $3.26 billion in additional lending authority. Kaptur, a longtime advocate of alternative energy, said the authority would be used to develop renewable energy sources and spur economic development in the Great Lakes region. “This amendment promotes much-needed regional equity,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The federal government has been subsidizing infrastructure and economic development in other parts of the country since the New Deal. Now it’s our turn. With the Midwest taking the brunt of the economic crisis, my priority was to bring our region additional tools to create jobs and promote energy independence.” The Kaptur amendment states that within six months of enactment of the legislation, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, would recommend to Congress establishment of a power marketing authority in any region of the nation that lacks such an instrument. The amendment also authorizes $25 million in fiscal year 2010 (starting October 1, 2009) to implement its provisions. Kaptur had advocated her idea for a power marketing authority through the St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation to members of the Ohio delegation in the House of Representatives and to key leadership, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Henry Waxman, chairman of the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s a tough fight,” she said, "but our voice is finally getting heard. Our region’s economy is still struggling. We must transform and modernize our few regional federal assets and manufacture the instrumentalities we need to meet the needs of the new century. Developing renewal power will provide us with greater national security and economic security while meeting environmental challenges. Our region can lead the way, but we need to level the playing field and we need the federal government as a full partner.” Read more here: "Kaptur's Amendment increases lending to Great Lakes " -- Toledo on the Move The Washington Times
06.26.2009	The Kaptur amendment, included in the manager’s amendment to H.R. 2484, authorizes the Secretary of Energy to authorize a power marketing authority with $3.26 billion in additional lending authority. Kaptur, a longtime advocate of alternative energy, said the authority would be used to develop renewable energy sources and spur economic development in the Great Lakes region. “This amendment promotes much-needed regional equity,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The federal government has been subsidizing infrastructure and economic development in other parts of the country since the New Deal. Now it’s our turn. With the Midwest taking the brunt of the economic crisis, my priority was to bring our region additional tools to create jobs and promote energy independence.” The Kaptur amendment states that within six months of enactment of the legislation, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, would recommend to Congress establishment of a power marketing authority in any region of the nation that lacks such an instrument. The amendment also authorizes $25 million in fiscal year 2010 (starting October 1, 2009) to implement its provisions. Kaptur had advocated her idea for a power marketing authority through the St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation to members of the Ohio delegation in the House of Representatives and to key leadership, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Henry Waxman, chairman of the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s a tough fight,” she said, "but our voice is finally getting heard. Our region’s economy is still struggling. We must transform and modernize our few regional federal assets and manufacture the instrumentalities we need to meet the needs of the new century. Developing renewal power will provide us with greater national security and economic security while meeting environmental challenges. Our region can lead the way, but we need to level the playing field and we need the federal government as a full partner.” Read more here: "Kaptur's Amendment increases lending to Great Lakes " -- Toledo on the Move The Washington Times
06.25.2009	Rep. Marcy Kaptur welcomed Vice President Joe Biden to Northwest Ohio and during a private meeting asked the Obama Administration to release funds under the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. Congresswoman Kaptur said local communities in the Ninth Congressional District, including Toledo, have been forced to lay off safety forces due to tight budget conditions. She said the COPS program grants could help alleviate the stress on law enforcement agencies heading into the summer months. “I urged Vice President Biden to accelerate the release of funds to our communities,” Kaptur said. “Public safety is their primary responsibility and we want the federal government to be as helpful as possible. That means getting the COPS funding out the door as quickly as possible.” Vice President Biden, chairman of the Middle Class Task Force, was joined by Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, U.S. Director for Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers Ed Montgomery, and Council of Economic Advisors member Michael Greenstone at Willard & Kelsey Solar Group, which manufactures solar panels in Perrysburg, Ohio. Biden announced an executive order creating a White House Council on Automotive Workers and Communities that will be headed Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and National Economic Council Director Larry Summers. The inter-agency council will focus on issues facing the automotive industry and protection of the hardest-hit communities and workers. “The council builds on the foundation we have laid over the past months to speed up and increase recovery to the region and ensure workers see a coordinated response from their government,” Mr. Montgomery said. Also at the meeting, Secretary Locke announced an expansion of the National Innovation Marketplace, which is part of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, to help manufacturers revitalize their supply chains. “We will bring together in one place the ideas, products and future opportunities that businesses need to identify new markets, diversify and create new jobs,” he said. “We will bring these services to you in a one-stop shop so you don’t have to go to four or five agencies to get the help you need.” “We will measure our success, President Obama and I, not just by how well the economy does, but how well the middle class does,” Biden said. “There are far too many valueable resources, too much valuable capital, and especially too much human skill and know-how embedded in America’s manufacturing sector to allow it to go to waste. “The President and I are committed to doing everything we can to prepare the manufacturing sector for the future and to protect families and communities hurt by recent job losses.” “We know that Lake Erie is the Saudi Arabia of wind power,” Congresswoman Kaptur said afterwards. “We have a strong partnership between the federal government, the University of Toledo and the state of Ohio to develop our green economy. We have the best workers in the world. Now we have to go about diversifying our economy.” “With the right policies, Ohio can be at the forefront for producing parts for wind and solar equipment,” said Amy Hanauer, director of Policy Matters Ohio, who participated in a roundtable discussion.
06.25.2009	The following information is from the House Committee on Education and Labor. Please visit their website for more information on this important issue. The cost of paying for college is becoming even more burdensome for Americans in this economy. While families are losing income, benefits and jobs, college tuition prices continue to rise. The average student now graduates with over $22,000 in total student debt, including federal and private student loans. This year’s class of graduating college seniors also enters one of the toughest jobs markets in decades for recent graduates. Of the 1.2 million jobs lost last year, 60 percent were held by workers aged 25 or younger. Their wages may also suffer: Economists have found that workers who graduated during recessions typically earn less over a lifetime than workers who graduate in better economic times. Many borrowers already spend high percentages of their paychecks making student loan payments – and it’s only likely to get worse.Given these challenges, it’s critical for current college students, new or soon-to-be graduates, and workers to know about new benefits going into effect July 1 that will make student loan payments manageable for millions of Americans. (These benefits were signed into law in 2007 as part of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act.) They include: Cheaper interest rates on need-based (subsidized) federal student loans. On July 1, the interest rates on subsidized federal student loans will decrease from 6 percent to 5.6 percent. This is the second of four annual cuts in this interest rate; it will continue to drop until it reaches 3.4 percent in 2011. Reasonable and affordable monthly college loan payments for borrowers. On July 1, a new Income-Based Repayment program will go into effect that caps borrowers’ monthly loan payments at just 15 percent of their discretionary income (15 percent of what a borrower earns above 150 percent of the poverty level for their family size). Any current or future borrower whose loan payment exceeds 15 percent of their discretionary income is eligible. After 25 years in the program, borrowers’ debts will be completely forgiven. Higher Pell Grant scholarships that cover the average tuition at public universities. Due to funding provided by both the College Cost Reduction and Access Act and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the maximum Pell Grant scholarship for the 2009-2010 school year will be $5,350 – more than $600 above last year’s award. In addition, students and borrowers will be able to continue to take advantage of other recent programs enacted under the law that will make it easier for graduates to go into public service fields while grappling with student debt. To encourage more students to become teachers, the law provides up-front tuition assistance, known as TEACH Grants, of $4,000 a year – for a maximum of $16,000 – to students who commit to teaching high need subject areas in high need schools for four years after graduation. (These grants first went into effect for the 2008-2009 school year). Recent surveys also show students’ interest in public service jobs is surging. Graduates who enter into public service careers, such as teachers, public defenders and prosecutors, firefighters, nurses, non-profit workers and more, will be eligible for complete loan forgiveness after 10 years of qualifying public service and loan payments. (This program began on October 1, 2007.) WHO BENEFITS? A SNAPSHOT…The interest rate cut…Nationwide, about 5.5 million students borrow need-based federal student loans each year. According to the Congressional Research Service, half of these borrowers come from families with incomes between $26,000-68,000. About 38 percent of African-American students take out need-based student loans each year. About 25 percent of Hispanic students take out need-based student loans each year. The Income-Based Repayment program…While it’s difficult to estimate an approximate number of borrowers who could participate, at the end of 2008, there were almost $556 billion in outstanding federal loans, representing almost 95 million student loans to more than 30 million borrowers. In 2008, about 8.9 million students borrowed federal loans. The Pell Grant scholarship…About 6 million students received the Pell Grant scholarship for the 2007-2008 school year. Of these students, 75 percent had family incomes below $30,000. About 47 percent of all African-American students receive Pell Grant scholarships each year. About 37 percent of Hispanic students receive the Pell Grant scholarship each year. WHO QUALIFIES FOR INCOME-BASED REPAYMENT?Borrowers who currently are paying back federal student loans and new borrowers, whose debt exceeds 15 percent of their discretionary income. Borrowers with hefty debt loads or low-paying jobs are most likely to qualify. The program covers all federal loans – both Direct and Federal Family Education loans – made to students, including Stafford, Grad PLUS and federal consolidation loans, but not those made to parents (PLUS loans). Perkins loans are also eligible if a borrower consolidates them into a FFEL or Direct Loan. A borrower must also have enough debt relative to their income to qualify for a reduced payment. If a borrower earns below 150 percent of their poverty level for their family size, their payment will be $0. If they earn above it, their payment will be capped at 15 percent of whatever their income is over that amount. Tips on how to apply for federal student loans and grants »
06.24.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur said local communities in the Ninth Congressional District, including Toledo, have been forced to lay off safety forces due to tight budget conditions. She said the COPS program grants could help alleviate the stress on law enforcement agencies heading into the summer months. “I urged Vice President Biden to accelerate the release of funds to our communities,” Kaptur said. “Public safety is their primary responsibility and we want the federal government to be as helpful as possible. That means getting the COPS funding out the door as quickly as possible.” Vice President Biden, chairman of the Middle Class Task Force, was joined by Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, U.S. Director for Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers Ed Montgomery, and Council of Economic Advisors member Michael Greenstone at Willard & Kelsey Solar Group, which manufactures solar panels in Perrysburg, Ohio. Biden announced an executive order creating a White House Council on Automotive Workers and Communities that will be headed Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and National Economic Council Director Larry Summers. The inter-agency council will focus on issues facing the automotive industry and protection of the hardest-hit communities and workers. “The council builds on the foundation we have laid over the past months to speed up and increase recovery to the region and ensure workers see a coordinated response from their government,” Mr. Montgomery said. Also at the meeting, Secretary Locke announced an expansion of the National Innovation Marketplace, which is part of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, to help manufacturers revitalize their supply chains. “We will bring together in one place the ideas, products and future opportunities that businesses need to identify new markets, diversify and create new jobs,” he said. “We will bring these services to you in a one-stop shop so you don’t have to go to four or five agencies to get the help you need.” “We will measure our success, President Obama and I, not just by how well the economy does, but how well the middle class does,” Biden said. “There are far too many valueable resources, too much valuable capital, and especially too much human skill and know-how embedded in America’s manufacturing sector to allow it to go to waste. “The President and I are committed to doing everything we can to prepare the manufacturing sector for the future and to protect families and communities hurt by recent job losses.” “We know that Lake Erie is the Saudi Arabia of wind power,” Congresswoman Kaptur said afterwards. “We have a strong partnership between the federal government, the University of Toledo and the state of Ohio to develop our green economy. We have the best workers in the world. Now we have to go about diversifying our economy.” “With the right policies, Ohio can be at the forefront for producing parts for wind and solar equipment,” said Amy Hanauer, director of Policy Matters Ohio, who participated in a roundtable discussion.
06.17.2009	“Federal assistance is crucial in helping local governments to continue enhancing their capabilities to respond to both natural disasters and terrorist attacks,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “No matter what the threat, public agencies must be prepared to respond and recover to keep our losses to a minimum. The Toledo area continues to build on its growing reputation for emergency medicine and disaster response, such as our Red Cross regional blood center and the Disaster Medical Assistance Team.” Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano announced almost $1.8 billion in preparedness grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Toledo area is included in the Tier 2 of the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), which provides funding to select high-threat, high-density urban areas to assist in building enhanced and sustainable capabilities to prevent and respond to terrorism. Ohio’s six largest cities, including Toledo, will each receive $321,221 under the Metropolitan Medical Response System, which is designed to help communities build a regional mass casualty incident response capability to respond to terrorism, naturally occurring events, and large-scale hazardous materials incidents. The state of Ohio also received $23.1 million under the State Homeland Security Program, much of which will be distributed to communities.
06.15.2009	“Hundreds of small businesses in our region are under stress because of high unemployment and a slow economy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The ARC program can provide a financial lifeline to these businesses. They are job creators in their local communities and stalwarts of the local economy. This program can offer an infusion of capital to help them get through these tough times.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the ARC program was approved by Congress and signed into law by President Obama as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), also known as the economic stimulus program. To qualify for the ARC loans, a small business must demonstrate that it is experiencing immediate financial hardship due to the economic downturn, but are otherwise deemed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to be viable. The loans will be made by commercial lenders and can be used for payments of principal and interest for existing, qualifying small business debts such as credit card obligations, mortgages, lines of credit, and balances due to suppliers, vendors, and utilities. Repayment of the ARC loan can extend over a five-year period, Kaptur said, and the first payment will not be due for one year, Kaptur said. There are no SBA fees on an ARC loan, she said. Businesses can apply through their local SBA-approved lenders. Loans will available through Sept. 30, 2010, or until funding runs out. Additional information is available at https://www.sba.gov/recovery/arcloanprogram/index.html or by calling Congresswoman Kaptur’s office.
06.12.2009	The program includes $25 billion nationwide for two new types of Recovery Zone Bonds: one program for economic development and another for facilities. Congresswoman Kaptur said the city of Toledo would receive approximately $45 million in bond authority, including $17,975,000 in economic development authority and $26,963,000 in facility bond authority. Lucas County will receive $25,375,000 in authority, including $10,150,000 for economic development bonds and $15,225,000 for facility bonds. Ottawa County would be eligible for $2,717,000 under the economic development program and $4,075,000 under the facility program. “It is my hope that local governments can take advantage of these innovative programs,” she said, "especially in light of the fiscal pressures that have worsened since the credit crisis. These bonds can help finance infrastructure improvements as well as investments in human capital.” Recovery Zone economic development bonds are taxable Build America Bonds through which state and local governments can lower their borrowing costs through a new direct federal payment subsidy for 45% of the interest. The bonds can be used to finance a broad range of qualified economic development projects, such as job training and educational programs. Recovery Zone facility bonds are tax-exempt private activity bonds that can be utilized by private businesses in designated areas for a range of projects. Congresswoman Kaptur credited House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel for developing the Recovery Zone bond program.
06.10.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur said the federal award will fund the purchase of approximately fifteen 35-foot buses, ten 30-foot buses, eleven paratransit for the TARPS fleet, and six support vehicles. The funds also will be used for purchase of a bus-stop and boarding announcement system to enhance access under the Americans with Disabilities Act for 30-foot and 35-foot TARTA buses. Approximately $1 million of the $8.5 million award will be used for maintenance. TARTA, which serves nine communities and carries almost five million passengers a year, has been a participant in a comprehensive study that investigated the impact of using a mixture of biodiesel fuels and petroleum-based diesel fuel. The study was made possible by a federal award obtained by Congresswoman Kaptur. At least 48 TARTA buses and a number of City of Toledo diesel-powered vehicles took part in the study, which was conducted by the University of Toledo. The study focused on differences in emissions, engine performance, engine wear, and operating costs. A mini-bus that was involved in the study has shown the benefits of injecting a small amount of hydrogen in the air intake of the vehicle using B20 fuel. The hydrogen portion of the study was developed and is being directed by H2 Engine Systems, which is located at the Clean Energy incubator at the University of Toledo.
06.03.2009	Read more: Obtaining a U.S. Passport On June 1, 2009, U.S. citizens returning home by land or sea from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean region or Bermuda are required to have a passport, passport card, or other travel document approved by the Department of Homeland Security. Before these new rules went into effect, U.S. citizens only needed to show proof of identity and U.S. citizenship. AIR TRAVEL As of January 1, 2008, U.S. citizens returning from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean region or Bermuda, by air, are required to present a passport to enter or re-enter the United States. LAND AND SEA TRAVEL Now, as of June 1, 2009, the full requirements of the "Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative" regarding land and sea travel are being implemented. U.S. citizens entering the U.S. by land or sea from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean region or Bermuda will be required to present one of the following travel documents: U.S. Passport This is an internationally recognized travel document that verifies a person's identity and nationality. It is accepted for travel by air, land and sea. U.S. Passport CardThis is a new, limited-use travel document that fits in your wallet and costs less than a U.S. Passport. It is only valid for travel by land and sea. Enhanced Driver's License (EDL)Several states are issuing this driver's license or identification document that denotes identity and citizenship. It is specifically designed for cross-border travel into the U.S. by land or sea. Trusted Traveler Program CardsNEXUS, SENTRI, or FAST enrollment cards can speed your entry into the U.S. and are issued only to pre-approved, low-risk travelers. The cards are valid for use at land or sea; the NEXUS card can be used at airports with a NEXUS kiosk. Document Rules for Special Groups: ChildrenU.S. citizen children under the age of 16 will be able to present the original or copy of their birth certificate, or other proof of U.S. citizenship such as a naturalization card or citizenship card. Groups of ChildrenGroups of U.S. citizen children ages 16 through 18, when traveling with a school or religious group, social organization, or sports team, will be able to enter under adult supervision with originals or copies of their birth certificates or other proof of citizenship. "Closed Loop" CruisesTravelers in cruises that depart from a U.S. port, sail only within the Western Hemisphere, and return to the same port do not have to comply with the new rules. Other Special GroupsMembers of the military, members of the merchant marine, and Native Americans can also use special forms of identification. ABOUT THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE TRAVEL INITIATIVE (WHTI) The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) is a result of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to strengthen U.S. border security while facilitating entry for U.S. citizens and legitimate foreign visitors by providing standardized documentation that enables the Department of Homeland Security to quickly and reliably identify a traveler. The initiative requires all travelers to present a passport or other document that denotes identity and citizenship when entering the United States. The countries covered by the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative are Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean region and Bermuda. MORE INFORMATION Apply for a passport>> GetYouHome.gov>> The US Department of State>>
05.26.2009	Here are some of the major tax benefits for small businesses: Faster Writeoffs for Certain Capital Expenditures: Many small businesses that invest in new property and equipment can write off most or all of these purchases on 2009 returns. The new law extended the special 50% depreciation allowance (known as bonus depreciation) and increased limits on the Section 179 deduction. Businesses normally recover these capital investments through annual depreciation deductions spread over several years; the recovery legislation enables businesses to write them off more quickly. The bonus depreciation provision generally enables small businesses to deduct half the cost of qualifying property in the year it is placed in service, whereas the Section 179 deduction enables businesses to deduct up to $250,000 of the cost of machinery, equipment, vehicles, furniture and other qualifying property placed in service during 2009. (The existing $25,000 limit still applies to sport utility vehicles.) A special phase-out provision effectively targets the Section 179 deduction to small businesses and generally eliminates it for most larger businesses. Expanded Net Operating Loss Carryback: Many small businesses that had expenses exceeding their incomes for 2008 can choose to carry those losses back for up to five years, instead of the usual two years. For small businesses that were profitable in the past but lost money in 2008, this could mean a special tax refund. The option is available for a small business with no more $15 million in average gross receipts over a three-year period. This option is still available for most eligible taxpayers, but only for a limited time. A corporation that operates on a calendar-year basis, for example, must file a claim by Sept. 15, 2009. For eligible individuals, the deadline is Oct. 15, 2009. Exclusion of Gain on the Sale of Certain Small Business Stock: The recovery legislation provides an extra incentive for individuals who invest in small businesses. Investors in qualified small business stock can exclude 75% of the gain upon sale of the stock. This increased exclusion applies only if the qualified small business stock is acquired between Feb. 17, 2009 and Jan. 1, 20011 and then held for more than five years. The exclusion rate for previously-acquired stock remains 50% in most cases. Estimated Tax Requirement Modified: Many individual small business taxpayers may be able to defer, until the end of the year, paying a larger part of their 2009 tax obligations. For 2009, eligible individuals can make quarterly estimated tax payments equal to 90% of their 2009 tax or 90% of their 2008 tax, whichever is less. Individuals qualify if they received more than half their gross income from their small businesses in 2008 and meet other requirements. COBRA Credit: Employers that provide the 65% COBRA premium subsidy to eligible former employees can claim credit on their quarterly or annual employment tax returns. To avoid an unnecessary burden on cash flow, affected employers can reduce their employment tax deposits by the amount of the credit.
05.21.2009	“The bill, while it does not go far enough, is a smoke signal that something needs to be done to reign in usurious interest rates and predatory credit card practices,” said Kaptur. The bill levels the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying common sense regulations that would ban most retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances (except when payments are more than 60 days late), double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights is part of a long-term plan to rebuild our economy in a way that is consistent with our values of responsibility and hard work, not high-flying finance schemes. As American families are being forced to tighten their belts during this economic crisis, the lending industry that has found new ways to make profits around old regulations, and faced little oversight, needs a reality check too. Specifically, the bill bans most interest rate increases on existing balances and increases notice of interest rate hikes going forward on new purchases. It requires that bills be sent 21 days before the due date; prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, mail or web; bans over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance; bans due-date tricks; requires payments to be applied fairly to the highest interest rate balance first; and strengthens credit card protections for young people.
05.19.2009	“Nursing jobs are expected to grow faster than most other occupations for the next decade,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our region is well positioned to be a leader in nurse training, including graduate education.” The federal award will provide financial assistance for nurses in the traineeship program at UT, which offers a Master of Science degree in five concentrations: adult nurse practitioner/clinical nurse specialist; psychiatric-mental health clinical nurse practitioner; pediatric nurse practitioner; psychiatric-mental health clinical nurse specialist; and, nurse educator. Master’s prepared nurses who seek specialization as a nurse practitioner or a clinical nurse specialist provide direct care to patients, families or groups. Nurse practitioners have been recognized as significant contributors to the provision of health care and in some rural areas act as primary-care providers. Those who seek preparation as nurse educators fill critical nurse faculty positions. A shortage of nurse educators has been a primary factor limiting the preparation of new nurses.
05.14.2009	The legislation would provide more than $15 million (estimated) in federal awards for public schools in the Ninth Congressional District, including approximately $11.3 million for the Toledo Public Schools, approximately $926,000 for the Washington Local School District, and approximately $699,000 for the Sandusky City school district. (See attached list for other estimated award amounts.) Kaptur said the Economic Policy Institute estimates the legislation would create as many as 136,000 new construction jobs, many of them in areas that will give workers the skills they need to excel in a clean energy economy. “This example of ‘smart legislation’ will help local schools lower their heating and cooling costs, which will save taxpayer dollars while helping grow the alternative energy industry that we are building right here in Northern Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. The bill has been sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Here is a list of estimated awards for local school districts under the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act. NOTE: These are estimated amounts only. They are provided solely to assist in comparing the relative impact of alternative formulas and funding levels in the legislative process and not intended to predict specific amounts that districts might receive. In addition to other limitations, data that is needed to calculate final grants might not yet be available. Lucas County: Toledo, $11,301,000; Washington Local, $926,000; Springfield Local, $398,000; Sylvania, $324,000; Oregon, $208,000; Maumee, $157,000; Anthony Wayne, $102,000; and, Ottawa Hills, $10,000. Erie County: Sandusky, $699,000; Vermilion, $132,000; Berlin-Milan, $89,000; Margaretta, $73,000; Perkins, $72,000; and, Huron, $65,000. Ottawa County: Port Clinton, $172,000; Benton-Carroll-Salem, $74,000; Genoa, $56,000; and, Danbury, $31,000. Lorain County: Midview, $166,000; Amherst, $144,000; Oberlin, $119,000; Keystone, $83,000; Firelands, $75,000; Wellington, $74,000.
05.12.2009	“We are challenging people to plant victory gardens,” she said. “All we ask is that when you grow food for your family that you give some of it to your local food kitchen or a local food bank.” She directed potential victory gardeners to a web site: VictoryInTheGarden.osu.edu. Kaptur was joined on the panel by Rita Mansour, a certified financial planner; Luke Rowe, a foreclosure attorney; and Chuck Parcher, regional manager for Huntington Bank. Kaptur repeated her advice for families facing home foreclosure: “Stay in your home. Get proper legal representation.” She vowed that she would “never vote to get rid of Social Security for this country,” describing the program as “the major social safety net for the families of this nation.” Kaptur again castigated large banks for causing the national economic crisis. Naming JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America, HSBC and Wells Fargo as culprits, she said they “basically made us, the taxpayer, their insurance company. They have that much power. It’s way too much power.” She said legislation to rein in the credit card industry is imperfect, but still needed to require companies to operate more fairly and cap interest rate increases. The bill passed the House and is awaiting action in the U.S. Senate. She said, “The two most important things we can do right now is to ease the credit lines … and have a health plan for small business that is competitive.”
05.11.2009	The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, which passed the House by an overwhelming margin, will outlaw much of the worst behavior that led to the highest foreclosure rate in decades. The bill ensures that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer. It prohibits the practice of prohibits steering borrowers into higher-cost loans. For the first time ever, it holds accountable anyone who originates, sells or buys a loan, including Wall Street interests that bundle mortgages for profit. The bill establishes standards for all home loans. It requires institutions to ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. It also requires that all mortgage refinancing loans benefit the consumer and encourages the market to move back toward fully documented loans. “Predatory lending helped get us into this mess,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This legislation will help prevent that type of irresponsible behavior.”The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act builds upon the other consumer protection legislation recently passed by the House, including the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights and the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act.
05.11.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur will join a panel of local experts to answer questions about money matters, home foreclosures, and much more. Certified Financial Planner Rita Mansour, foreclosure prevention attorney Luke Rowe, and a banker from Huntington Bank will provide help with financial questions. Questions can be addressed to Town Hall Meeting at townhallmeeting@wtol.com . The live special will be streamed on WTOL.com and broadcast on Buckeye Cable Channel 111.
05.10.2009	President Obama has declared a national emergency due to the outbreak of swine flu, which is now present in 46 states. For more information about the swine flu, visit the CDC web site at https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/ or click here . For more information about swine flu in Northwest Ohio, please click here. You can also call the Ohio Department of Health’s toll free number at 866-800-1404. Most health officials believe that vaccination is the best way to protect against the flu. There are two types of vaccines: a swine flu shot and a nasal spray vaccine. The shot is approved for people six months of age and older, including healthy people, people with chronic medical conditions, and pregnant women. The nasal-spray vaccine is approved for use only in healthy people ages 2 to 49 who are not pregnant. For information about vaccine clinics in the Lucas County area, click here. Vaccination efforts should focus first on people in five target groups who are at higher risk for 2009 H1N1 influenza or related complications, are likely to come in contact with influenza viruses as part of their occupation and could transmit influenza viruses to others in medical care settings, or are close contacts of infants younger than 6 months (who are too young to be vaccinated). These five target groups make up an estimated 159 million people in the U.S. The U.S. government has purchased 250 million doses of 2009 H1N1 vaccine, so no shortage is likely. Vaccination will continue throughout the influenza season and into the early part of 2010. Flu seasons can last as late as April or May. Vaccine will be made available as quickly as possible as it rolls off the production lines. Initially, the vaccine will be available in limited quantities. Medical experts believe that swine flu virus spreads in the same way as regular influenza—mainly through coughing and sneezing. It might also be spread by touching infected objects and then touching your nose or mouth. Infection reportedly causes a wide range of flu-like symptoms, including fever, cough, sore throat, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue. In addition, many people also have reported nausea, vomiting and/or diarrhea. Everyone should take preventive actions to stop the spread of germs, including frequent hand washing. People who are sick should stay home and avoid contact with others in order to limit further spread of the disease. Despite the vaccinations and preventive measures, the CDC anticipates more cases, more hospitalizations, and more deaths in the U.S. over the fall and winter.
05.01.2009	“I conveyed to the president the importance of the auto industry to the U.S. defense industrial base and the economic vitality of Northern Ohio," Kaptur said. "This industry has been brought to its knees by the mess on Wall Street and deserves to be restructured and to flourish to meet the transportation needs of the 21st Century.” Kaptur termed the administration’s plan to restructure the company “a very promising agreement.” She said it “avoids liquidation and gives our region the opportunity to be the crown jewel in the industry due to the tremendous goodwill of the Jeep brand. “The President told us that he knows it will be a long road, and he thanked us for our patience. He said his task force had worked with all the stakeholders to avoid liquidation and give the company a chance not only to survive, but to thrive. “The president acknowledged that we’re not out of the woods yet, because there will be a short bankruptcy for a portion of the debts. The United Auto Workers and major creditors agreed to the terms, but certain hedge funds were unwilling to make the necessary concessions. “Chrysler will survive. Most important are the jobs saved. The company must shed liabilities and will emerge stronger. Health benefits will be protected.” Kaptur said President Obama promised to dispatch an official from his auto task force to affected communities in coming weeks to help plan strategy. Kaptur was joined in the conversation with President Obama by Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, along with several members of the Michigan delegation in the House of Representatives. Congresswoman Kaptur was the only Ohio member on the phone call.
04.27.2009	Human cases of swine influenza A (H1N1) virus infection have been identified in the United States—including at least one case in Ohio. The virus is contagious and spreads from human to human. Ongoing investigations will attempt to determine the source of the infection. For information, visit the Centers for Disease Control web site: www.cdc.gov . CDC is working closely with health officials in Ohio and other states, as well as internationally. Lab testing has found the swine flu virus susceptible to the prescription antiviral drugs oseltamivir and zanamivir and has issued interim guidance for the use of these drugs to prevent and treat infection. CDC has prepared guidance on how to care for people who are sick and the use of face masks in a community setting where spread of this particular swine flu virus has been detected. This is a rapidly evolving situation and CDC will provide new information as it becomes available. There are everyday actions people can take to stay healthy:Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it. Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially after you cough or sneeze. Alcohol-based hands cleaners are also effective. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Germs spread that way. Try to avoid close contact with sick people. Influenza is thought to spread mainly person-to-person through coughing or sneezing of infected people. If you get sick, stay home from work or school and limit contact with others to keep from infecting them. If you develop an illness with fever and respiratory symptoms, such as cough and runny nose, and possibly other symptoms, such as body aches, nausea, or vomiting or diarrhea, immediately contact your health care provider, who will determine whether influenza testing is needed.
04.22.2009	Rep. Marcy Kaptur congratulated Oberlin College for winning the “Green Power Challenge” in the North Coast Athletic Conference (NCAC) for the third consecutive year. "The Oberlin College community is leading the way, not only in its own athletic conference but throughout Northern Ohio, with its amazing commitment to green energy and sustainable development," said Kaptur, a staunch advocate of alternative energy and energy independence for the United States. For the past three years, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has tracked green power purchases by colleges and universities across collegiate athletic conferences. To participate in the challenge and earn a listing, a conference must have an aggregate green power purchase of at least 10 million kilowatt-hours between member institutions. Oberlin College carried the NCAC almost on its own with 9.98 million kilowatt-hours of green power in 2008-2009. Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa. was the other NCAC school to participate. Kaptur noted that Oberlin was the only Ohio college or university to participate in the competition. She urged other Ohio schools to participate in the Green Power Challenge. "Our institutions of higher education should be in the arena, moving the ball forward on green power, not sitting on the sidelines," she said. In 2004, Oberlin College agreed to buy a utility green power product from Oberlin Municipal Light & Power and generate green power on-site, which helps reduce the environmental effects associated with the campus’ electricity use. In the 12 months of the Green Power competition, Oberlin’s purchase represented 41 percent of the school’s annual electricity usage. The purchase equaled the amount of electricity needed to power almost 1,000 average American homes each year; the college’s “carbon footprint” has been reduced by approximately 12,000 tons annually. “Oberlin College is pleased to be recognized for its commitment to reducing its carbon footprint through the purchase of renewable energy,” says Marvin Krislov, President of Oberlin College. “Global warming is one of the most important issues we face today, not only in the United States but throughout the world. We at Oberlin College believe it is important to be a leader in facing this challenge through education and action.” “We congratulate Oberlin,” said Cheryl Newton, director of EPA Region 5’s Air and Radiation Division. “They’re helping to improve the air we breathe and cutting greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.” This year’s challenge included 44 competing institutions representing 22 different conferences nationwide. The University of Pennsylvania was the overall champion with a purchase of almost 193 million kilowatt hours of green power. The Ivy League, of which Penn is a member, was this year’s overall champion conference with a cumulative annual purchase of more than 225 million kilowatt hours. EPA’s Green Power Partnership encourages organizations to buy green power as a way to reduce the environmental impacts associated with traditional fossil fuel-based electricity use. The partnership includes a diverse set of organizations including Fortune 500 companies, small and medium businesses, government institutions as well as a growing number of colleges and universities. More information on EPA’s College and University Green Power Challenge and the list of winners is at https://www.epa.gov/greenpower/initiatives/cu_challenge.htm .
04.22.2009	"The Oberlin College community is leading the way, not only in its own athletic conference but throughout Northern Ohio, with its amazing commitment to green energy and sustainable development," said Kaptur, a staunch advocate of alternative energy and energy independence for the United States. For the past three years, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has tracked green power purchases by colleges and universities across collegiate athletic conferences. To participate in the challenge and earn a listing, a conference must have an aggregate green power purchase of at least 10 million kilowatt-hours between member institutions. Oberlin College carried the NCAC almost on its own with 9.98 million kilowatt-hours of green power in 2008-2009. Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa. was the other NCAC school to participate. Kaptur noted that Oberlin was the only Ohio college or university to participate in the competition. She urged other Ohio schools to participate in the Green Power Challenge. "Our institutions of higher education should be in the arena, moving the ball forward on green power, not sitting on the sidelines," she said. In 2004, Oberlin College agreed to buy a utility green power product from Oberlin Municipal Light & Power and generate green power on-site, which helps reduce the environmental effects associated with the campus’ electricity use. In the 12 months of the Green Power competition, Oberlin’s purchase represented 41 percent of the school’s annual electricity usage. The purchase equaled the amount of electricity needed to power almost 1,000 average American homes each year; the college’s “carbon footprint” has been reduced by approximately 12,000 tons annually. “Oberlin College is pleased to be recognized for its commitment to reducing its carbon footprint through the purchase of renewable energy,” says Marvin Krislov, President of Oberlin College. “Global warming is one of the most important issues we face today, not only in the United States but throughout the world. We at Oberlin College believe it is important to be a leader in facing this challenge through education and action.” “We congratulate Oberlin,” said Cheryl Newton, director of EPA Region 5’s Air and Radiation Division. “They’re helping to improve the air we breathe and cutting greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.” This year’s challenge included 44 competing institutions representing 22 different conferences nationwide. The University of Pennsylvania was the overall champion with a purchase of almost 193 million kilowatt hours of green power. The Ivy League, of which Penn is a member, was this year’s overall champion conference with a cumulative annual purchase of more than 225 million kilowatt hours. EPA’s Green Power Partnership encourages organizations to buy green power as a way to reduce the environmental impacts associated with traditional fossil fuel-based electricity use. The partnership includes a diverse set of organizations including Fortune 500 companies, small and medium businesses, government institutions as well as a growing number of colleges and universities. More information on EPA’s College and University Green Power Challenge and the list of winners is at https://www.epa.gov/greenpower/initiatives/cu_challenge.htm .
04.21.2009	Sandusky will serve as home port for a new, commercial-grade research vessel for the U.S. Geological Service (USGS), according to U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur. “I am extremely pleased to be able to announce a new ship for Lake Erie research as a result of the economic recovery bill,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who is a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee. “Lake Erie is such a precious natural resource and it is central to our efforts to create new jobs and economic opportunity in Northern Ohio . Commercial and sport fishing generate more than $7 billion a year for the Great Lakes regional economy. This new vessel will provide state-of-the-art technology to help protect our vital Lake Erie fishery.” Kaptur said the U.S. Department of Interior will allocate funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for a pair of new 60- to 65-foot research vessels, one on Lake Erie and the other on Lake Ontario . They will replace the Sandusky-based R/V Musky II, built in 1960 to serve Lake Erie, and its counterpart on Lake Ontario , the R/V Kaho, which was built in 1961 and is housed in Oswego , N.Y. Both vehicles monitor lake ecology for the purpose of fisheries management. The new ships will be built after contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process. Congresswoman Kaptur said replacing the older, diesel-powered ships will mean safer working conditions, improved fuel economy and significantly lower maintenance costs, which will conserve taxpayer dollars. Replacement of the current aging vessels was recommended by USGS officials in light of prohibitively high maintenance costs for the Musky II and the Kaho. The Kaho, for instance, required more than half a million dollars of safety upgrades, equipment replacement and deferred maintenance between 2004 and 2007.
04.21.2009	“Lake Erie is such a precious natural resource and it is central to our efforts to create new jobs and economic opportunity in Northern Ohio . Commercial and sport fishing generate more than $7 billion a year for the Great Lakes regional economy. This new vessel will provide state-of-the-art technology to help protect our vital Lake Erie fishery.” Kaptur said the U.S. Department of Interior will allocate funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for a pair of new 60- to 65-foot research vessels, one on Lake Erie and the other on Lake Ontario . They will replace the Sandusky-based R/V Musky II, built in 1960 to serve Lake Erie, and its counterpart on Lake Ontario , the R/V Kaho, which was built in 1961 and is housed in Oswego , N.Y. Both vehicles monitor lake ecology for the purpose of fisheries management. The new ships will be built after contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process. Congresswoman Kaptur said replacing the older, diesel-powered ships will mean safer working conditions, improved fuel economy and significantly lower maintenance costs, which will conserve taxpayer dollars. Replacement of the current aging vessels was recommended by USGS officials in light of prohibitively high maintenance costs for the Musky II and the Kaho. The Kaho, for instance, required more than half a million dollars of safety upgrades, equipment replacement and deferred maintenance between 2004 and 2007.
04.07.2009	The project involves replacement or renovation of 905 feet of existing docks, contruction of 590 feet of new floating docks, installation of new lighting connections as well as electrical, water and fire protection improvements on all existing and proposed docks for transient boaters. “This federal award, especially combined with the state funds, will provide even greater access to the boating community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Put-in-Bay is truly one of the crown jewels. Its docks are basically the front door to the community and everything it has to offer.” The competitive grant for Put-in-Bay was one of 14 announced nationally by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. The grants are funded through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Boating Infrastructure Grant (BIG) program. Funding for the BIG program comes from the Sport Fishing and Boating Trust Fund, formerly known as the Aquatic Resources Trust Fund, which is supported by excise taxes on certain fishing and boating equipment and boat fuels. Boating Infrastructure Grant funds are used to construct, renovate and maintain tie-up facilities with features for transient boats (those staying 10 days or less) that are 26 feet or more in length and cannot be transported by trailer. The funds are also used to produce and distribute information and educational materials about the program. A panel of representatives from the Service, as well as a committee from the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, reviewed and ranked the BIG proposals. The Council is a federally chartered body that advises the Secretary of the Interior and the Service on recreational fishing and boating issues.
04.07.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur announced a $2.2 million federal award to the village of Put-in-Bay from the U.S. Department of Interior for dock improvements. The federal award will be matched by $1.3 million from the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR). The project involves replacement or renovation of 905 feet of existing docks, contruction of 590 feet of new floating docks, installation of new lighting connections as well as electrical, water and fire protection improvements on all existing and proposed docks for transient boaters. “This federal award, especially combined with the state funds, will provide even greater access to boaters,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Put-in-Bay is truly one of the crown jewels. The docks are basically the front door to the community and everything it has to offer.” The competitive grant for Put-in-Bay was one of 14 announced nationally by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. The grants are funded through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Boating Infrastructure Grant (BIG) program. Funding for the BIG program comes from the Sport Fishing and Boating Trust Fund, formerly known as the Aquatic Resources Trust Fund, which is supported by excise taxes on certain fishing and boating equipment and boat fuels. Boating Infrastructure Grant funds are used to construct, renovate and maintain tie-up facilities with features for transient boats (those staying 10 days or less) that are 26 feet or more in length and cannot be transported by trailer. The funds are also used to produce and distribute information and educational materials about the program. A panel of representatives from the Service, as well as a committee from the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, reviewed and ranked the BIG proposals. The Council is a federally chartered body that advises the Secretary of the Interior and the Service on recreational fishing and boating issues.
04.07.2009	Col. Mark E. Bartman, 180th Fighter Wing Commander, Ohio Air national Guard and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur walk among the rows of solar panels at the 180th Fighter Wing's Alternative Energy site. USAF Photo by Senior Airman Jodi Joice. Due in part to more than $50 million in legislatively directed projects, Northern Ohio is emerging as one of three major solar-energy centers in the Western Hemisphere. The 180th Air National Guard base boasts the largest solar plant of any such facility in America. The University of Toledo, fueled by federal funding, is recognized as an international leader in research and development of photovoltaic-related materials and products. ABC News has profiled our region as the "Silicon Valley" of alternative energy. Considering our region's legacy as a glass-making capital and its long history as a manufacturing center, the transition to solar energy and other clean renewables is only logical. Taking the lead on alternative energy will not only create new, good-paying jobs, but also help our energy-hungry nation and world break the economic and political stranglehold of petroleum. Solar Energy’s Main Hub: Toledo, Ohio Reinventing oneself in troubled times is a sure sign of the steadfastness of the Midwest, and a core value to Ohioans of the Ninth Congressional District. Scientists and entrepreneurs alike are coming together in to use the Midwestern ingenuity and resources, like a known glass industry, in and around Toledo to support solar energy technology development and implementation. Read more about this ingenuity here: Northern Ohio Leads the Nation in Solar Energy Development Kaptur Announces NASA Partnership with UT To Advance Solar Energy Research Kaptur Breaks Ground on Mixed Technology Incubator Solar Companies in Northern Ohio: First Solar Inc.--Main research center and only U.S. manufacturing plant in suburban Toledo. Calyxo USA Inc.--Subsidiary of Germany's Q-Cells AG developing new ways to make solar panels. Xunlight Corp.--Startup founded by University of Toledo researcher makes flexible, lightweight panels. Willard & Kelsey Solar Group LLC--Private group will begin panel production early next year. Solar Frames USA LLC--Installer of solar fields and panels. Pilkington North America Inc.--Automotive glass maker now supplies First Solar with glass. Research at the University of Toledo The University of Toledo houses one of the The Wright Center for Photovoltaics Innovation and Commercialization (PVIC) as well as work in the Physics and Astronomy.Solar Projects for the Department of Defense The Department of Defense Research and Development Program funded the 180th Fighter Wing's Renewable Energy Project in an effort to reduce the 180th's use of limited fossil fuel and dependence on foreign energy sources. Once completed, the solar field is expected to produce 800-900 Kilowatts of electricity, which will allow the 180th to save approximately 37.5% on the annual electricity budget. The solar field will also reduce the amount of coal burned to produce energy by almost 250 tons annually, while at the same time reducing harmful emissions and greenhouse gasses. The Wright Center for Photovoltaics Innovation and Commercialization The Wright Center for Photovoltaics Innovation and Commercialization (PVIC) consists of a world class science and technology platform in the State of Ohio employing second and third generation Photovoltaics materials tailored primarily for applications in clean electricity generation. Three Primary locations of the Center are the University of Toledo, The Ohio State University, and Bowling Green State University. PVIC was created in January 2007 with $18.6 M in support from the Ohio Department of Development, along with matching contributions of $30 M from Federal Agencies, Universities, and Industrial Partners. Besides reducing solar costs and improving technologies, future successes of PVIC will be in transferring these new techniques from the laboratories to the production lines. Other ResourcesA guide to installing solar energy Alternative energy tax credits for which you may be eligible Funding opportunities from the The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Related to Energy
03.30.2009	"During these tough times, workers need a wide variety of services," said Congresswoman Kaptur. She said the grant will be used to provide access to the full array of services through the state of Ohio, including counseling, case management, job search and job placement. The grant to the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services will serve workers at the Chrysler plant as well as General Motors plants in Lordstown and Moraine, plus 12 suppliers companies throughout the state.
03.26.2009	Rep. Marcy Kaptur welcomed the announcement of state funding priorities under the federal stimulus plan as reflecting several job-producing initiatives that she has championed. “These choices reflect the priorities that I have identified over the past several years,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, citing efforts to develop intermodal transportation capacity, revitalize the Toledo Shipyards, and improve facilities at the Port of Toledo. “These priorities that can create jobs and bring new economic activity to the area,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “I look forward to working together with Governor Strickland on further improvements to our transportation infrastructure.” The governor this morning announced a statewide list of transportation projects that will be funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that was proposed by President Obama and approved by Congress. The list included the high-bay initiative at the Toledo Shipyards ($15 million), the seaport crane project ($6.8 million), the Airline Yard multi-modal transportation project ($6.5 million) and reconstruction of Otter Creek Road in Oregon ($3 million). "These choices reflect priorities that can grow our job base and bring new economic activity to the area. Our previous federal investments in making improvements at the Port of Toledo as well as rail and cargo capacity here have resulted in this further investment,” Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur has led local discussions about an intermodal transportation facility based at the Port of Toledo. She led a local delegation to Nova Scotia last fall to discuss the “Atlantic Gateway” project that would make Toledo a port of destination for global shipping through the St. Lawrence Seaway. “The tandem investments at Airline Yard and the Port of Toledo create opportunities for local business and local job development in a core growth sector of our area’s economy,” Kaptur said. The shipyard modernization project would renovate the current facility, expand the high-bay building to accommodate new job-creating ventures, and acquire equipment for barge construction and wind power component projection. She estimated that approximately 100 jobs would be created. Kaptur said the acquisition of a mobile harbor crane could increase capacity significantly at the Port of Toledo, giving it the ability to move up to 35 containers per hour for bulk material handling. She said the facility improvements will give the Port of Toledo a competitive advantage over other ports on the Great Lakes. “This is another signal to the world that we are serious about competing as a global logistics hub,” Kaptur said. She said a competitive logistics hub would result in new jobs for the local economy.
03.26.2009	“These choices reflect the priorities that I have identified over the past several years,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, citing efforts to develop intermodal transportation capacity, revitalize the Toledo Shipyards, and improve facilities at the Port of Toledo. “These priorities that can create jobs and bring new economic activity to the area,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “I look forward to working together with Governor Strickland on further improvements to our transportation infrastructure.” The governor this morning announced a statewide list of transportation projects that will be funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that was proposed by President Obama and approved by Congress. The list included the high-bay initiative at the Toledo Shipyards ($15 million), the seaport crane project ($6.8 million), the Airline Yard multi-modal transportation project ($6.5 million) and reconstruction of Otter Creek Road in Oregon ($3 million). "These choices reflect priorities that can grow our job base and bring new economic activity to the area. Our previous federal investments in making improvements at the Port of Toledo as well as rail and cargo capacity here have resulted in this further investment,” Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur has led local discussions about an intermodal transportation facility based at the Port of Toledo. She led a local delegation to Nova Scotia last fall to discuss the “Atlantic Gateway” project that would make Toledo a port of destination for global shipping through the St. Lawrence Seaway. “The tandem investments at Airline Yard and the Port of Toledo create opportunities for local business and local job development in a core growth sector of our area’s economy,” Kaptur said. The shipyard modernization project would renovate the current facility, expand the high-bay building to accommodate new job-creating ventures, and acquire equipment for barge construction and wind power component projection. She estimated that approximately 100 jobs would be created. Kaptur said the acquisition of a mobile harbor crane could increase capacity significantly at the Port of Toledo, giving it the ability to move up to 35 containers per hour for bulk material handling. She said the facility improvements will give the Port of Toledo a competitive advantage over other ports on the Great Lakes. “This is another signal to the world that we are serious about competing as a global logistics hub,” Kaptur said. She said a competitive logistics hub would result in new jobs for the local economy.
03.26.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur said the federal award to Toledo is part of $84.2 million in grants for 33 cities and 10 counties in Ohio, including $25 million for the State Energy Office. The funding awards will be officially announced by Vice President Biden and Energy Secretary Stephen Chu as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan. “This is a welcome example of stimulus money coming back to our area to create jobs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our region is rapidly emerging as a national leader in alternative energy, which has long been one of my top priorities. I am hopeful that Northern Ohio will receive its fair share of funding from the state allocation as well.” The grant awards were made according to formula and are aimed at reducing total energy use and fossil fuel emissions through increased efficiency.
03.26.2009	Congresswoman Kaptur said the federal award to Toledo is part of $84.2 million in grants for 33 cities and 10 counties in Ohio , as well as the State Energy Office. The funding awards will be officially announced by Vice President Biden and Energy Secretary Stephen Chu as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan.“This is a welcome example of stimulus money coming back to our area to create jobs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Our region is clearly emerging as a national leader in alternative energy, which has long been one of my top priorities. I am hopeful that Northern Ohio will receive its fair share of funding from the state allocation as well.”The grant awards were made according to formula and are aimed at reducing total energy use and fossil fuel emissions through increased efficiency.
03.20.2009	Looking for employment? https://www.usajobs.com/ is the official website of the U.S. government for employment opportunities. This search engine has a newsletter for which you can sign up to have new job listings e-mailed to you. While you are looking for a new job, be sure to take advantage of all the benefits you've earned. Click here to find out how to access your unemployment benefits or healthcare during your transition period. Additional Resources Small Business Assistance Programs The Federal Government has many initiatives to help small businesses with technical and financial assistance. Grants and Foundations: Government and Private Funding This link provides information and links to resources regarding available government and private funding for a vast array of programs. And as always, please do not hesitate to call us at (800)964-4699 if you have any questions.
03.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Do you qualify for either refinancing or modification of your mortgage? Click here for a self-assessment tool and to learn more: https://makinghomesaffordable.gov/index.html
03.19.2009	AIG is the target of public outrage after revelations that it awarded $165 million in bonuses to executives. AIG has received up to $173 billion in bailout funds from the American taxpayers. Attending the hearing by unanimous consent of a House Financial Services subcommittee, Congresswoman Kaptur asked Mr. Liddy a series of questions, including details about how AIG plans to repay the government and how long it might take. Liddy said the company plans to sell assets, turn over life insurance companies to the Federal Reserve, and also to sell its property and casualty insurance units and devote the proceeds to paying back the government’s Troubled Assets Relief Program. He said the process would take up to three years, but that he expects “material progress” quickly. Congresswoman Kaptur, a former member of the Financial Services Committee, also asked Mr. Liddy about the fair value of the derivatives in the AIG portfolio as well as a best estimate of their trading value. He said the fair value was $1.6 trillion, but acknowledged that he did not know the trading value. "How much of AIG does the federal government own?" Congresswoman Kaptur asked. The answer: 79.9 percent. A vote is expected today in the House of Representatives on legislation that would impose a tax against the bonuses that would effectively rescind them.<
03.19.2009	AIG is the target of public outrage after revelations that it awarded $165 million in bonuses to executives. AIG has received up to $173 billion in bailout funds from the American taxpayers. Attending the hearing by unanimous consent of a House Financial Services subcommittee, Congresswoman Kaptur asked Mr. Liddy a series of questions, including details about how AIG plans to repay the government and how long it might take. Liddy said the company plans to sell assets, turn over life insurance companies to the Federal Reserve, and also to sell its property and casualty insurance units and devote the proceeds to paying back the government’s Troubled Assets Relief Program. He said the process would take up to three years, but that he expects “material progress” quickly. Congresswoman Kaptur, a former member of the Financial Services Committee, also asked Mr. Liddy about the fair value of the derivatives in the AIG portfolio as well as a best estimate of their trading value. He said the fair value was $1.6 trillion, but acknowledged that he did not know the trading value. “How much of AIG does the federal government own?” Congresswoman Kaptur asked. The answer: 79.9 percent. A vote is expected today in the House of Representatives on legislation that would impose a tax against the bonuses that would effectively rescind them.
03.18.2009	“This funding throws a food lifeline for thousands of older Americans,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who as a member of the House Appropriations subcommittee on agriculture wrote legislation to create the Senior Farmers Market Coupon program. “Such assistance is exceedingly important in a state that has suffered a direct hit from the recession.” Vice President Joe Biden today announced the $100 million program, which will provide 14 million meals to low-income older Americans throughout the country. Ohio will receive $2.5 million in congregate nutrition services at senior centers and other community sites as well as $1.23 million for home-delivered nutrition services for frail elders. Congresswoman Kaptur said the funding will make it possible for many senior citizens in the Ninth Congressional District to continue receiving enough food to survive. Without proper nutrition, she said, their health is jeopardized and their ability to remain at home and lead independent lives is compromised. Kaptur said she is looking forward in coming weeks to a formal announcement of the ninth year of the Senior Farmers Market Coupon program. The program makes coupons available to seniors to buy fresh fruits and vegetables and provides local farmers with an additional niche market for their products.
03.16.2009	From March 9–27, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is conducting a signup for restoring and protecting flood-prone lands. Unlike other USDA funds, this program is not restricted to land that is farmed. The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) may purchase easements on any floodplain lands that have been impaired within the last 12 months or that have a history of repeated flooding. The signup period for this funding is limited, so if you are interested, contact USDA quickly. https://www.oh.nrcs.usda.gov/news/News/ewp_signup.html
03.05.2009	This panel was developed in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (a.k.a. the “Bailout”) In response to the escalating crisis, on October 3, 2008, Congress provided the U.S. Treasury with the authority to spend $700 billion to stabilize the U.S. economy. Congress created the Office of Financial Stabilization (OFS) within Treasury to implement a Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). At the same time, Congress created a Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) to “review the current state of financial markets and the regulatory system.” COP is empowered to hold hearings, review official data, and write reports on actions taken by Treasury and financial institutions and their effect on the economy. Through regular reports, COP must: Oversee Treasury’s actions Assess the impact of spending to stabilize the economy Evaluate market transparency, Ensure effective foreclosure mitigation efforts And guarantee that Treasury’s actions are in the best interest of the American people. Lastly, Congress has instructed COP to produce a special report on regulatory reform that will analyze “the current state of the regulatory system and its effectiveness at overseeing the participants in the financial system and protecting consumers.” Tell Your Story The Congressional Oversight Panel wants to hear YOUR Story regarding the bailout, and in particular related to the foreclosure mess and dealing with your banks. Panel Members Elizabeth Warren, Chair Rep. Jeb Hensarling Richard Neiman Damon Silvers John Sununu
03.03.2009	Upgrading facilities for energy efficiency is an investment in keeping future costs down and insuring our community readiness through the time honored tradition of the National Guard,” said Kaptur. “I am pleased to have been able to help bring resources to our local commands for improvements that will put people to work and save taxpayer dollars into the future.” Projects funded under the announcement include: TOLEDO: $648,000 for utility modernization and solar array installation at the Toledo Readiness Center . The Center houses the 323rd MP Unit on the University of Toledo Health Sciences Campus . The project will build on Kaptur’s earlier efforts at the 180th FW at Toledo Express which resulted in the installation of the largest solar array at a National Guard facility in the country and has been recognized for consisting of over 95% local content. PORT CLINTON: $2.04 million will be directed to the Camp Perry Training Facility for projects that include energy saving window replacements, an upgrade of facility electricity distribution, and improvements to water delivery systems on the site. SANDUSKY: $125,000 for energy cost improvements and plumbing upgrades for energy efficiency at the Ohio Army National Guard Sandusky Joint Force Headquarters which houses Company D, 1-148th Infantry Regiment.
02.25.2009	“I agree with President Obama that even though we are facing a long road of rebuilding and recovery, our nation will emerge stronger than before. The American people are extraordinarily resilient, and we will overcome this challenge. “If the President is truly looking to reduce our deficits and return our fiscal house to order, he should include our trade deficits that continue to clock in at hundreds of billions of dollars each year. We must focus on opening markets to American goods so that our workers compete on a level playing field. "Any long-term plan to strengthen, secure, and stabilize our economy must include comprehensive reform of our trade and tax policies. America should eschew the flawed NAFTA-model of trade in favor of a people-centered approach, and we should examine how the value-added tax affects our ability to export. Without a close examination of how our market access is hindered by non-tariff trade barriers in closed markets like China, Japan, and Korea, the U.S. will continue to hemorrhage money abroad. “I am encouraged by the President’s dedication to peace in the Middle East and by his approach to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. "I look with anticipation to further detail in his budget request later this week. "More than ever, Congress and the Administration must stand on the side of the American people.” The Congresswoman was joined for the address by Toledo-native Lisa Rice, who serves as vice president of the National Fair Housing Alliance.
02.16.2009	Rebecca Boone and Marcy with the winning piece. A six-member panel of distinguished jurors honored Ms. Boone for her artwork, “I Am,” which will be exhibited in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Ms. Boone and her parents received three round-trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a June 24 awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. Runnersup in the competition were: Hannah Jones, a student at Oberlin High School, and Jamie Scherer, also a student at Whitmer. “Congratulations to all the participants for their wonderful creations,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Everyone is a winner in this competition, in my opinion.” Honorable Mentions were awarded to: Emily Smith (Ottawa Hills H.S.), Lauren Unverferth and Elizabeth Padgett (Notre Dame Academy); Alexis Molik, Alisa Tippin, Sheheraza Draw, Amber Whitenburg, Jamie Scherer and Katelyn Cody (Whitmer), Paris Wells (Toledo Waite H.S.), Deidra Young (St. Ursula). University of Toledo awards were received by Amber Whitenburg and Alexis Molik, both Whitmer students. The Bowling Green State University awards were received by Sheheraza Draw and Jamie Scherer, also both students at Whitmer. The Eastman & Smith award was received by Jacob Forren (Edison High School). Courtney Jones (Toledo Bowsher H.S.), received the Commercial Design Award. Her artwork will be reproduced into glassware by Libbey, Inc. Honorable Mentions in the commercial category were received by: Chelsea Irons (Bowsher), Melanie Cox, Hailey Suydam, and Rebecca Boone (Whitmer), Heather Klatt (Clay H.S.), Alisha Stahl and Hallandra Johnson (Waite), and, Deidra Young (St. Ursula). All participants in the commercial design competition have been invited to a Design Career Workshop hosted by Libbey. Jurors included Joe Meiser (Instructor, First Year Studies at BGSU), Barbara Rollins (board member, Firelands Association of the Visiting Arts), Diana Attie (Professor of Art, Drawing at UT), Sue Hague-Rogers (Board Member, Arts Commission of Greater Toledo), Tom McGlaughlin (renowned glass artist) and Sandy Shult (Libbey Inc., graphic artist). The students’ artwork will be displayed in the lobby of Fifth Third Center at One Seagate through Feb. 24 before traveling to Oberlin College Science Center (March 3-21). A reception for participants will be held on Sunday, March 8 (1-3 p.m.) in Oberlin. The competition was sponsored by Congresswoman Kaptur in connection with the Arts Commission of Greater Toledo, the longest standing arts commission in the state of Ohio.For more information on the contest, please click here.
02.13.2009	“Our nation is facing a severe economic crisis,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “We face the highest unemployment rates in a generation and an uncertain road forward. This legislation strengthens the safety net for millions of seniors and unemployed Americans. It also makes important investments in our future. Although I wish it would have focused more on job creation in the short term, I am also encouraged by the commitment to green energy, infrastructure projects, and high-speed rail.” Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the bill will provide tax relief for 95 percent of the American people, authorize checks for $250 for most senior citizens and retirees, increase jobless benefits by $25 a week, subsidize COBRA continuing health care benefits for unemployed workers, and expand the Earned Income Tax Credit. Kaptur noted that the bill makes the most substantial commitment to high-speed rail in the nation’s history, noting that she had raised the issue with President Obama last week. She said she is optimistic that the $8 billion investment in high-speed rail will stimulate development of the important Chicago-Toledo-Sandusky-Cleveland rail corridor, which she succeeded in earlier legislation as designating one of 13 major corridors in the U.S. “High-speed rail is a good investment in America’s future—especially here in the Great Lakes coastal region,” she said. “Moving forward on this initiative will create good jobs and build the modern infrastructure that will make our region more competitive in future.” Kaptur is a member of the Transportation-Housing subcommittee of House Appropriations. “We have been pushing for real job creation across our region, based on future-oriented investment. This latest addition will bring real value-added investment throughout our job-starved region and will place Ohio on a new, 21st Century path,” she said. Read the stimulus here: https://appropriations.house.gov/ - Bill Text - Division A - Bill Text - Division B - Bill Text - Signatures of Managers - Joint Statement - Division A - Joint Statement - Division B Stimulus summary: https://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/PressSummary02-12-09.pdf
02.06.2009	Facing forclosure? Click here. Or call us at (800)964-4699 or (419) 259-7500 [Reproduced with permission.] Amy Goodman Wednesday, February 4, 2009 Marcy Kaptur of Ohio is the longest-serving Democratic congresswoman in U.S. history. Her district, stretching along the shore of Lake Erie from west of Cleveland to Toledo, faces an epidemic of home foreclosures and 11.5 percent unemployment. That heartland region, the Rust Belt, had its heart torn out by the North American Free Trade Agreement, with shuttered factories and struggling family farms. Kaptur led the fight in Congress against NAFTA. Now, she is recommending a radical foreclosure solution from the floor of the U.S. Congress: "So I say to the American people, you be squatters in your own homes. Don't you leave." She criticizes the bailout's failure to protect homeowners facing foreclosure. Her advice to "squat" cleverly exploits a legal technicality within the subprime-mortgage crisis. These mortgages were made, then bundled into securities and sold and resold repeatedly, by the very Wall Street banks that are now benefiting from TARP (the Troubled Asset Relief Program). The banks foreclosing on families very often can't locate the actual loan note that binds the homeowner to the bad loan. "Produce the note," Kaptur recommends those facing foreclosure demands of the banks. "[P]ossession is nine-tenths of the law," Rep. Kaptur told me. "Therefore, stay in your property. Get proper legal representation ... [if] Wall Street cannot produce the deed nor the mortgage audit trail ... you should stay in your home. It is your castle. It's more than a piece of property. ... Most people don't even think about getting representation, because they get a piece of paper from the bank, and they go, 'Oh, it's the bank,' and they become fearful, rather than saying: 'This is contract law. The mortgage is a contract. I am one party. There is another party. What are my legal rights under the law as a property owner?' "If you look at the bad paper, if you look at where there's trouble, 95 to 98 percent of the paper really has moved to five institutions: JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wachovia, Citigroup and HSBC. They have this country held by the neck." Kaptur recommends calling the local Legal Aid Society, Bar Association or 888-995-4673 for legal assistance. The onerous duty of physically evicting people and dragging their possessions to the curb typically falls on the local sheriff. Kaptur conditions her squatting advice, saying, "If it's a sheriff's eviction, if it's reached that point, that is almost impossible." Unless the sheriff refuses to carry out the eviction, as Sheriff Warren C. Evans of Wayne County, Mich., has decided to do. Wayne County, including Detroit, has had more than 46,000 foreclosures in the past two years. After reviewing TARP, Evans determined that home foreclosures would conflict with TARP's goal of reducing foreclosures, and that he'd be violating the law by denying foreclosed homeowners the chance at potential federal assistance. "I cannot in clear conscience allow one more family to be put out of their home until I am satisfied they have been afforded every option they are entitled to under the law to avoid foreclosure," he said. Bruce Marks of the Boston-based Neighborhood Assistance Corp. of America is taking the fight to the homes of the banks' CEOs. Last October, as the TARP bailout was shaping up to benefit Wall Street and not Main Street, NACA blockaded the entrance of mortgage giant Fannie Mae until it got a meeting with executives there. Now NACA is working with Fannie Mae to restructure mortgages. Marks is organizing a nationwide, three-day "Predator's Tour," going to the CEOs' homes to demand meetings with them. He told me: "This is what we're going to do with thousands of homeowners, go to their (the CEOs') home and say: 'I want you to meet my family. I want you to see who you're foreclosing on.' ... If they're going to take our homes, we're going to go to their homes, and we're going to tell them, 'No more.' " Before the inauguration, Larry Summers, the chair of President Obama's National Economic Council, promised congressional Democratic leaders to "implement smart, aggressive policies to reduce the number of preventable foreclosures by helping to reduce mortgage payments for economically stressed but responsible homeowners, while also reforming our bankruptcy laws and strengthening existing housing initiatives." According to a report by RealtyTrac, "Foreclosure filings were reported on 2.3 million U.S. properties in 2008, an increase of 81 percent from 2007 and up 225 percent from 2006." As the financial crisis deepens, people facing foreclosure should take Kaptur's advice and tell their bankers, "Produce the note."Copyright Amy Goodman Amy Goodman is the host of "Democracy Now!" a daily international TV/radio news hour airing on more than 700 stations in North America. Denis Moynihan contributed research to this column.
02.04.2009	“America is simply not ready for the conversion,” said Kaptur. “In my district alone, more than five thousand households are still waiting for the coupons to buy converters so their TV screens don’t go dark. Nationally, an estimated two million households remain on a waiting list requests for these coupons. An estimated 6.5 million households would lose reception without an extension of the deadline.” Kaptur said the coupons are important, particularly for senior citizens who rely on television as their primary source for information such as weather and emergencies. “A delay of 115 days will allow the government to fulfill its commitment to the people,” Kaptur said. The legislation allows customers who never redeemed coupons for the converter boxes to apply for replacement coupons. However, no household will be able to redeem more than two coupons. Kaptur noted that the legislation builds in flexibility for the FCC to approve full digital conversion in markets where consumers are prepared for the transition before the June 12 date. “We have taken the right step to make sure millions of Americans don’t lose television reception,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Congresswoman Kaptur said consumers who have requested coupons but not yet received them should call her office.
02.04.2009	“Insuring children is especially important at a time when our communities are facing double-digit unemployment,” Kaptur said. “I am hopeful that our Congress and our new president can continue relieve the worsening burdens on hard-hit families across the nation. Now so many American families can cease to worry about insuring their children.” This bipartisan bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) through FY 2013. It preserves the coverage for all 7.1 million children currently covered by SCHIP, including preserving the coverage of 231,538 Ohio children. It also provides coverage for 4.1 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid, including119,000 children in Ohio who do not currently have health insurance. The bill is fully paid for – raising the tobacco tax by 62 cents. Raising the tobacco tax also promotes children’s health – by discouraging children from smoking. According to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, a 62-cent increase in the tobacco tax means that nearly 1.9 million fewer children will take up smoking. Our action today is a first step toward helping families to make ends meet as the full weight of this financial crisis settles on Main Street. Children weren’t the culprits who brought about of this economic upheaval. We must help them even as we struggle to stabilize communities across the country,” Kaptur added. If you have questions about whether you and your family qualify for this insurance, contact Kaptur’s office at 419-259-7500 or contact your local Ohio county department of job and family services (CDJFS).
02.03.2009	The award of $1.26 million will be used to upgrade mechanical systems at OVH and cover 65 percent of the cost of construction. The remainder of the project will be funded through the state of Ohio. “This work will not only stimulate the local economy, but improve the quality of life for our veterans at the home in Sandusky,” Kaptur said. “What an honor it is to serve those who have served our nation.” The State Home Program is a cooperative effort between the federal government, through Veterans Affairs, and the state of Ohio. Kaptur is a member of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. The Sandusky facility, which has operated for more than 115 years, provides standard care and special care in its licensed nursing home. It also offers Veterans Hall, a domiciliary for people who are unable to live independently, and DOM-Plus for those who require only limited assistance and not the level of care that is provided to nursing home residents. The exact amount of the federal award announced today will depend on final construction costs.
01.30.2009	Read more: Facing Our Financial Crisis The House of Representatives passed an $825 billion stimulus package on January 28. It still awaits Senate approval, but here is a quick summary of the bill as it stands now, and a more thorough one, and how it could help you. As noted in our e-newsletter, the bill includes an average increase of $25 a week in jobless benefits through December 2009. It extends the current extended unemployment benefits program, which provides up to 33 weeks of unemployment compensation-through the end of 2009. Also, it extends health insurance coverage under the COBRA program for older workers beyond the current 18 months. If you have any questions about the bill, or how you might benefit from it, please click here or call 800-964-4699. Tip: If you are looking for a specific provision, press Ctrl+F to search for the term in the browser. The stimulus legislation will target: Infrastructure projects on roads, bridges, waterways and public transit, creating an estimated 1.5 million American jobs; Green energy projects that will create more than one million jobs; Tax cuts of up to $1,000 for more than four million Ohio families; Lower health care costs through the adoption of health information technology, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs Broader coverage for people who currently cannot afford health care; Increased student financial aid for more than a quarter of a million Ohio students; Help for workers who have been hurt by the economy, including more than 450,000 Ohioans who are jobless; Saving the jobs of teachers and police officers. How much does Ohio get? Additional Medicaid Funding Funding to Prevent Education & Other Cutbacks Pell Grant Recipients Additional Students Receiving Higher Ed. Tax Credits Infrastructure Investments (Highways, Transit, etc.) Families Receiving Make Work Pay Credit $2,826,874,000 $2,385,026,000 268,804 128,000 $1,575,509,341 4,179,000 Children Helped by Expansion of Child Tax Credit People Benefiting from Extension of UI Benefit Food Stamp Participants Jobs Saved or Created by End of 2010, with plan Impact on Unemployment Rate, with plan 623,000 91,704 1,209,000 171,750 -2.40% SUMMARY: AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT TITILE II: AGRICULTURE DEPARMENT OF AGRICULUTRE Department of Agriculture: $44 million for repairs and security improvements at USDA's headquarters. Agricultural Research Service: $209 million for agricultural research facilities across the country. ARS has a list of deferred maintenance work at facilities of roughly $315 million. Farm Service Agency: $245 million for critical IT improvements to systems that have been unable to handle workload increases. Watershed Infrastructure: $400 million for the Natural Resources Conservation Service watershed improvement programs to design and build flood protection and water quality projects, repair aging dams, and purchase and restore conservation easements in river flood zones. Rural Community Facilities: $200 million to support $1.2 billion in grants and loans to rural areas for critical community facilities, such as for healthcare, education, fire and rescue, day care, community centers, and libraries. There are over $1.2 billion in applications pending Rural Business-Cooperative Service: $100 million for rural business grants and loans to guarantee $2 billion in loans for rural businesses at a time of unprecedented demand due to the credit crunch. Private sector lenders are increasingly turning to this program to help businesses get access to capital. Wireless and Broadband Grants: $6 billion for broadband and wireless services in underserved areas to strengthen the economy and provide business and job opportunities in every section of America with benefits to e-commerce, education, and healthcare. For every dollar invested in broadband the economy sees a ten-fold return on that investment. Supplemental Nutrition Program Information Systems: $100 million to improve state management information systems for the WIC program. Food Stamp Benefit: $20 billion to increase the food stamp benefit by over 13% in order to help defray rising food costs. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance: $20 billion to provide nutrition assistance to modest-income families and to lift restrictions that limit the amount of time individuals can receive food stamps. Senior Nutrition Programs: $200 million for formula grants to states for elderly nutrition services including Meals on Wheels and Congregate Meals. After School Meals: $726 million to increase the number of states that provide free dinners to children and to encourage participation by new institutions by increasing snack reimbursement rates. TITILE III: COMMERCE-JUSTICE-SCIENCE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Economic Development Assistance: $250 million to address long-term economic distress in urban industrial cores and rural areas distributed based on need and ability to create jobs and attract private investment. EDA leverages $10 in private investments for $1 in federal funds. Periodic Census and Programs, Communications: $1 billion for work necessary to ensure a successful 2010 census, including $150 million for expanded communications and outreach programs to minimize undercounting of minority groups. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Satellites and Sensors: $600 million for satellite development and acquisitions, including climate sensors and climate modeling. NOAA Habitat Restoration: $400 million for ready-to-go habitat restoration projects. National Institute of Standards and Technology: $300 million for competitive construction grants for research science buildings at colleges, universities, and other research organizations and $100 million to coordinate research efforts of laboratories and national research facilities by setting interoperability standards for manufacturing. Small Business Credit: $430 million for new direct lending and loan guarantee authorities to make loans more attractive to lenders and free up capital. The number of loans guaranteed under the SBA's 7(a) business loan program was down 57% in the first quarter of this year compared to last. Industrial Technology Services: $100 million, including $70 million for the Technology Innovation Program to accelerate research in potentially revolutionary technologies with high job growth potential, and $30 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnerships to help small and mid-size manufacturers compete globally by providing them with access to technology. DTV Conversion Coupons: $650 million to continue the coupon program to enable American households to convert from analog television transmission to digital transmission. DEPARMENT OF JUSTICE State and Local Law Enforcement: $4 billion to support state and local law enforcement including $3 billion for the Byrne Justice Assistance formula grants to support local law enforcement efforts with equipment and operating costs, and $1 billion for the COPS hiring grant program, to hire about 13,000 new police officers for three years. The grantee is responsible for at least 25% in matching funds and must commit to use their own funds to keep the officer on board in the fourth year. SCIENCES National Science Foundation: $3 billion, including $2 billion for expanding employment opportunities in fundamental science and engineering to meet environmental challenges and to improve global economic competitiveness, $400 million to build major research facilities that perform cutting edge science, $300 million for major research equipment shared by institutions of higher education and other scientists, $200 million to repair and modernize science and engineering research facilities at the nation's institutions of higher education and other science labs, and $100 million is also included to improve instruction in science, math and engineering. NASA: $600 million, including $400 million to put more scientists to work doing climate change research, including Earth science research recommended by the National Academies, satellite sensors that measure solar radiation critical to understanding climate change, and a thermal infrared sensor to the Landsat Continuing Mapper necessary for water management, particularly in the western states; $150 million for research, development, and demonstration to improve aviation safety and Next Generation air traffic control (NextGen); and $50 million to repair NASA centers damaged by hurricanes and floods last year. TITLE IV: DEFENSE Department of Defense Research: $350 million for research into using renewable energy to power weapons systems and military bases. TITLE V: ENERGY & WATER CORPS OF ENGINEERS Corps of Engineers: $4.5 billion for environmental restoration, flood protection, hydropower, and navigation infrastructure critical to the economy. The Corps has a construction backlog of $61 billion. Bureau of Reclamation: $500 million to provide clean, reliable drinking water to rural areas and to ensure adequate water supply to western localities impacted by drought. The Bureau has backlogs of more than $1 billion in rural water projects and water reuse and recycling projects. DEPARMENT OF ENERGY Renewable Energy Loan Guarantees: $8 billion for loans for renewable energy power generation and transmission projects. Local Government Energy Efficiency Block Grants: $6.9 billion to help state and local governments make investments that make them more energy efficient and reduce carbon emissions. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Research: $2 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy research, development, demonstration, and deployment activities to foster energy independence, reduce carbon emissions, and cut utility bills. Funds are awarded on a competitive basis to universities, companies, and national laboratories. Advanced Battery Loans and Grants: $2 billion for the Advanced Battery Loan Guarantee and Grants Program, to support U.S. manufacturers of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems. America should lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. Energy Efficiency Grants and Loans for Institutions: $1.5 billion for energy sustainability and efficiency grants and loans to help school districts, institutes of higher education, local governments, and municipal utilities implement projects that will make them more energy efficient. Home Weatherization: $6.2 billion to help low-income families reduce their energy costs by weatherizing their homes and make our country more energy efficient. Smart Appliances: $300 million to provide consumers with rebates for buying energy efficient Energy Star products to replace old appliances, which will lower energy bills. Electric Transportation: $200 million for a new grant program to encourage electric vehicle technologies. Cleaning Fossil Energy: $2.4 billion for carbon capture and sequestration technology demonstration projects. This funding will provide valuable information necessary to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from industrial facilities and fossil fuel power plants. Industrial Energy Efficiency: $500 million for energy efficient manufacturing demonstration projects. Department of Energy: $1.9 billion for basic research into the physical sciences including high-energy physics, nuclear physics, and fusion energy sciences and improvements to DOE laboratories and scientific facilities. $400 million is for the Advanced Research Project Agency - Energy to support high-risk, high-payoff research into energy sources and energy efficiency. TITLE VI: FINANCIAL SERVICES GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION GSA Federal Buildings: $6.7 billion for renovations and repairs to federal buildings including at least $6 billion focused on increasing energy efficiency and conservation. Projects are selected based on GSA's ready-to-go priority list. GSA Federal Fleet: $600 million to replace older vehicles owned by the federal government with alternative fuel automobiles that will save on fuel costs and reduce carbon emissions. TITLE VII: HOMELAND SECURITY Border Ports of Entry: $1.15 billion to construct GSA and Customs and Border Patrol land ports of entry to improve border security, make trade and travel easier and reduce wait times, and to procure non-intrusive inspection technology at sea ports of entry, which is used to scan cargo containers to reduce the risk that containers can be used to smuggle weapons of mass destruction. Emergency Food and Shelter: $200 million to help local community organizations provide food, shelter, and support services to the nation's hungry, homeless, and people in economic crisis including one-month utility payments to prevent service cut-off and one-month rent or mortgage assistance to prevent evictions or help people leave shelters. Funds are distributed by formula based on unemployment and poverty rates. Coast Guard Bridges: $150 million for ready-to-go investments to repair or remove bridges deemed hazardous to marine navigation, thereby removing obstructions and improving the safety of marine navigation. TITLE VIII: INTERIOR & ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR Construction on Public Lands and Parks: $3.1 billion for infrastructure projects on federal lands including improvements to visitor facilities, road and trail restoration, preservation of buildings of cultural and historic importance, rehabilitation of abandoned mines and oil fields, and environmental cleanup projects. This includes $1.8 billion for the National Park Service, $325 million for the Bureau of Land Management, $300 million for the National Wildlife Refuges and National Fish Hatcheries, and $650 million for the Forest Service. National Treasures: $400 million, including $200 million to address the deterioration of the National Mall, such as repair of the Jefferson Memorial's collapsing Tidal Basin walls; $150 million to address the repair backlog at the Smithsonian; and $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts. U.S. Geological Survey: $200 million to repair and modernize U.S.G.S. science facilities and equipment, including improvements to laboratories, earthquake monitoring systems, and computing capacity. Reducing Wildfires Threats: $850 million for hazardous fuels removal and other efforts to prevent wildfires on public lands. Making these investments today will create jobs in the short run, but also save long term costs of fighting fires in the future. State and Private Forest Service Wildfire: $550 million for state and local volunteer programs and hazardous fuels reduction efforts which states and communities have determined are of the highest priority. Federal Forest Service Wildfire: $300 million for urgently needed hazard reduction on federal lands. Bureau of Indian Affairs: $500 million to address maintenance backlogs at schools, dams, detention and law enforcement facilities, and over 24,000 miles of roads. BIA schools alone have an over $1 billion construction and maintenance backlog including shamefully unsafe conditions. International Boundary and Water Commission: $224 million to repair flood control systems along the international segment of the Rio Grande damaged by hurricane Katrina and other serious storms. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY Clean Water State Revolving Fund: $6 billion for loans to help communities upgrade wastewater treatment systems. EPA estimates a $388 billion funding gap. The Association of State and Interstate Water Pollution Control Administrators found that 26 states have $10 billion in approved water projects. Drinking Water State Revolving Fund: $2 billion for loans for drinking water infrastructure. EPA estimates there is a $274 billion funding gap. The National Governors Association reported that there are $6 billion in ready-to-go projects, which could quickly be obligated. Rural Water and Waste Disposal: $1.5 billion to support $3.8 billion in grants and loans to help communities fund drinking water and wastewater treatment systems. In 2008, there were $2.4 billion in requests for water and waste loans and $990 million for water and waste grants went unfunded. Diesel Emissions Reduction: $300 million for grants and loans to state and local governments for projects that reduce diesel emissions, benefiting public health and reducing global warming. This includes technologies to retrofit emission exhaust systems on school buses, replace engines and vehicles, and establish anti-idling programs. 70% of the funds go to competitive grants and 30% funds grants to states with approved programs. Last year EPA was able to fund only 27% of the applications received. Brownfields: $100 million for competitive grants for evaluation and cleanup of former industrial and commercial sites - turning them from problem properties to productive community use. Last year EPA was only able to fund 37% of Brownfields applications. Superfund Hazardous Waste Cleanup: $800 million to clean up hazardous and toxic waste sites that threaten health and the environment. EPA has 1,255 sites on its National Priority List, selected based on a hazard ranking system. There are many Superfund sites ready for construction, but not funded due to budget shortfalls and over 600 sites with ongoing construction that could be accelerated. Leaking Underground Storage Tanks: $200 million for enforcement and cleanup of petroleum leaks from underground storage tanks at approximately 1,600 additional sites. There are an estimated 116,000 sites with the potential to contaminate important water supplies. Nuclear Waste Cleanup: $500 million for nuclear waste cleanup at sites contaminated as a result of the nation's past nuclear activities. Accelerating the completion of projects will reduce long-term costs. Indian Health Service Facilities: $550 million to modernize aging hospitals and health clinics and make healthcare technology upgrades to improve healthcare for underserved rural populations. TITLE IX: LABOR, HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES, & EDUCATION DEPARMENT OF LABOR Department of Labor Worker Protection and Oversight: $80 million to ensure that worker protection laws are enforced as recovery infrastructure investments are carried out. Job Corps Facilities: $300 million to upgrade job training facilities serving at-risk youth while improving energy efficiency. Training and Employment Services: $4 billion for job training including formula grants for adult, dislocated worker, and youth services (including $1.2 billion to create up to one million summer jobs for youth). The needs of workers also will be met through dislocated worker national emergency grants, new competitive grants for worker training in high growth and emerging industry sectors (with priority consideration to "green" jobs and healthcare), and increased funds for the YouthBuild program. Green jobs training will include preparing workers for activities supported by other economic recovery funds, such as retrofitting of buildings, green construction, and the production of renewable electric power. Vocational Rehabilitation State Grants: $500 million for state formula grants for construction and rehabilitation of facilities to help persons with disabilities prepare for gainful employment. Employment Services Grants: $500 million to match unemployed individuals to job openings through state employment service agencies and allow states to provide customized services. Funds are targeted to states with the greatest need based on labor force, unemployment, and long-term unemployed rates. Community Service Employment for Older Americans: $120 million to provide subsidized community service jobs to an additional 24,000 low-income older Americans. Benefits Extension: $27 billion to continue the current extended unemployment benefits program - which provides up to 33 weeks of extended benefits - through December 31, 2009 given rising unemployment. Increased Benefits: $9 billion to increase the current average unemployment insurance benefit from roughly $300 per week, paid out of State trust funds, by $25 per week using Federal funds, through December 2009. There are currently 5.3 million workers receiving regular UI and an additional 1.9 million receiving extended benefits. Unemployment Insurance Modernization: Provides funds to states though a "Reed Act" distribution, tied to states' meeting specific reforms to increase unemployment insurance coverage for low-wage, part-time, and other jobless workers. DEPARMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICE Health Information Technology: $20 billion to jumpstart efforts to computerize health records to cut costs and reduce medical errors. Prevention and Wellness Fund: $3 billion to fight preventable chronic diseases, the leading cause of deaths in the U.S., and infectious diseases. Preventing disease rather than treating illnesses is the most effective way to reduce healthcare costs. This includes hospital infection prevention, Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grants for state and local public health departments, immunization programs, and evidence-based disease prevention. Healthcare Effectiveness Research: $1.1 billion for Healthcare Research and Quality programs to compare the effectiveness of different medical treatments funded by Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP. Finding out what works best and educating patients and doctors will improve treatment and save taxpayers money. Community Health Centers: $1.5 billion, including $500 million to increase the number of uninsured Americans who receive quality healthcare and $1 billion to renovate clinics and make health information technology improvements. More than 400 applications submitted earlier this year for new or expanded CHC sites remain unfunded. Training Primary Care Providers: $600 million to address shortages and prepare our country for universal healthcare by training primary healthcare providers including doctors, dentists, and nurses as well as helping pay medical school expenses for students who agree to practice in underserved communities through the National Health Service Corps. Low-Income Home Energy Assistance: $1 billion to help low-income families pay for home heating and cooling at a time of rising energy costs. Child Support Enforcement: $1 billion to provide federal incentive funds for states to collect support owed to families. Social Security Administration Disability Backlog and Claims Processing: $500 million to help the Social Security Administration process a steep rise in disability and retirement claims, getting people their benefits faster, and preventing existing backlogs from getting worse. Within this total, $40 million will help SSI upgrade health information technology. Centers for Independent Living: $200 million for state formula grants to help individuals with disabilities continue to live in their communities. AmeriCorps Programs: $200 million to put approximately 16,000 additional AmeriCorps members to work doing national service, meeting needs of vulnerable populations and communities during the recession. Compassion Capital Fund: $100 million for grants to faith- and community-based organizations to provide critical safety net services to needy individuals and families. National Institutes of Health Biomedical Research: $2 billion, including $1.5 billion for expanding good jobs in biomedical research to study diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cancer, and heart disease - NIH is currently able to fund less than 20% of approved applications - and $500 million to implement the repair and improvement strategic plan developed by the NIH for its campuses. University Research Facilities: $1.5 billion for NIH to renovate university research facilities and help them compete for biomedical research grants. The National Science Foundation estimates a maintenance backlog of $3.9 billion in biological science research space. Funds are awarded competitively. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: $462 million to enable CDC to complete its Buildings and Facilities Master Plan, as well as renovations and construction needs of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development, Pandemic Flu, and Cyber Security: $900 million to prepare for a pandemic influenza, support advanced development of medical countermeasures for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats, and for cyber security protections at HHS. Social Security Administration Modernization: $400 million to replace the 30 year old Social Security Administration's National Computer Center to meet growing needs for processing retirement and disability claims and records storage. COBRA Healthcare for the Unemployed: $30.3 billion to extend health insurance coverage to the unemployed, extending the period of COBRA coverage for older and tenured workers beyond the 18 months provided under current law. Specifically, workers 55 and older, and workers who have worked for an employer for 10 or more years will be able to retain their COBRA coverage until they become Medicare eligible or secure coverage through a subsequent employer. In addition, subsidizing the first 12 months of COBRA coverage for eligible persons who have lost their jobs on or after September 1, 2008 at a 65 percent subsidy rate, the same rate provided under the Health Care Tax Credit for unemployed workers under the Trade Adjustment Assistance program. [Ways and Means] Medicaid Coverage for the Unemployed: Provides 100 percent federal funding through 2010 for optional State Medicaid coverage of individuals (and their dependents) who are receiving unemployment benefits or have exhausted those benefits and have no health insurance coverage. Other optional coverage groups are individuals (and their dependents) who are involuntarily unemployed and uninsured and whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of poverty, and unemployed uninsured individuals who are receiving food stamps." Payments to Disabled and Elderly: $4.2 billion to help 7.5 million low-income disabled and elderly individuals with rising costs by providing an additional SSI payment in 2009 equal to the average monthly federal payment under the program (approximately $450 for an individual and $630 for a couple). This one-time payment will serve as an immediate economic stimulus as half of SSI recipients have no other form of income and the other half average outside income of less than $450 per month. Community Services Block Grant: $1 billion for grants to local communities to support employment, food, housing, and healthcare efforts serving those hardest hit by the recession. Community action agencies have seen dramatic increases in requests for their assistance due to rising unemployment, housing foreclosures, and high food and fuel prices. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCTION Title I Help for Disadvantaged Kids: $13 billion for grants to help disadvantaged kids in nearly every school district and more than half of all public schools reach high academic standards. School Construction: $20 billion, including $14 billion for K-12 and $6 billion for higher education, for renovation and modernization, including technology upgrades and energy efficiency improvements. Also includes $100 million for school construction in communities that lack a local property tax base because they contain non-taxable federal lands such as military bases or Indian reservations, and $25 million to help charter schools build, obtain, and repair schools. Education Technology: $1 billion for 21st century classrooms, including computer and science labs and teacher technology training. Pell Grants: $15.6 billion to increase the maximum Pell Grant by $500, from $4,850 to $5,350. College Work-Study: $490 million to support undergraduate and graduate students who work. Student Loan Limit Increase: Increases limits on unsubsidized Stafford loans by $2,000. Student Aid Administration: $50 million to help the Department of Education administer surging student aid programs while navigating the changing student loan environment. K-12 Education: As states begin tackling a projected $350 billion in budget shortfalls these investments will prevent cuts to critical education programs and services. IDEA Special Education: $13 billion for formula grants to increase the federal share of special education costs and prevent these mandatory costs from forcing states to cut other areas of education. Statewide Data Systems: $250 million for competitive grants to states to design and develop data systems that analyze individual student data to find ways to improve student achievement, providing teachers and administrators with effective tools. Education for Homeless Children and Youth: $66 million for formula grants to states to provide services to homeless children including meals and transportation when high unemployment and home foreclosures have created an influx of homeless kids. Improving Teacher Quality: $300 million, including $200 million for competitive grants to school districts and states to provide financial incentives for teachers and principals who raise student achievement and close the achievement gaps in high-need schools and $100 million for competitive grants to states to address teacher shortages and modernize the teaching workforce. Child Care Development Block Grant: $2 billion to provide child care services for an additional 300,000 children in low-income families while their parents go to work. Today only one out of seven eligible children receives care. Head Start: $2.1 billion to provide comprehensive development services to help 110,000 additional children succeed in school. Funds are distributed based on need. Only about half of all eligible preschoolers and less than 3 percent of eligible infants and toddlers participate in Head Start. IDEA Infants and Families: $600 million for formula grants to help states serve children with disabilities age 2 and younger. TITLE X: MILITARY CONSTRUCTION & VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Medical Facilities: $3.75 billion for new construction of hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers, and $455 million in renovations to provide state-of-the-art medical care to service members and their families. Facilities Renovations: $2.1 billion to address needed repairs to military facilities. Troop Housing: $1.2 billion for new construction and $154 million for renovations to improve housing for our troops. Child Development Center: $360 million for new child development centers. Guard and Reserve: $400 million for new construction to support Guard and Reserve units across the country with operations and training facilities and utilities infrastructure. Closed Military Bases: $300 million for cleanup activities at closed military installations allowing local communities to redevelop these properties for productive use. The Department estimates that there is a $3.5 billion environmental cleanup backlog at bases closed during previous BRAC rounds. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS Veterans Medical Facilities: $950 million for veterans' medical facilities. The Department has identified a $5 billion backlog in needed repairs, including energy efficiency projects, at its 153 medical facilities. Veterans Cemeteries: $50 million to put people to work making monument and memorial repairs at cemeteries for American heroes. TITLE XI: DEPARTMENT OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE State Department Technology: $276 million to upgrade and modernize information technology platforms for the Department to meet security requirements post-9/11. TITLE XII: TRANSPORTATION & HUD DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Highway Infrastructure: $30 billion for highway and bridge construction projects. It is estimated that states have over 5,100 projects totaling over $64 billion that could be awarded within 180 days. These projects create jobs in the short term while saving commuters time and money in the long term. In 2006, the Department of Transportation estimated $8.5 billion was needed to maintain current systems and $61.4 billion was needed to improve highways and bridges. Transit: Public transportation saves Americans time and money, saving as much as 4.2 billion gallons of gasoline and reducing carbon emissions by 37 million metric tons each year. Alternative Buses and Trucks: $400 million to help state and local governments purchase efficient alternative fuel vehicles to reduce fuel costs and carbon emissions. New Construction: $1 billion for Capital Investment Grants for new commuter rail or other light rail systems to increase public use of mass transit and to speed projects already in construction. The Federal Transit Administration has $2.4 billion in pre-approved projects. Upgrades and Repair: $2 billion to modernize existing transit systems, including renovations to stations, security systems, computers, equipment, structures, signals, and communications. Funds will be distributed through the existing formula. The repair backlog is nearly $50 billion. Transit Capital Assistance: $6 billion to purchase buses and equipment needed to increase public transportation and improve intermodal and transit facilities. The Department of Transportation estimates a $3.2 billion maintenance backlog and $9.2 billion in needed improvements. The American Public Transportation Association identified 787 ready-to-go transit projects totaling $15.5 billion. Funds will be distributed through the existing formulas. Amtrak and Intercity Passenger Rail Construction Grants: $1.1 billion to improve the speed and capacity of intercity passenger rail service. The Department of Transportation's Inspector General estimates the North East Corridor alone has a backlog of over $10 billion. Airport Improvement Grants: $3 billion for airport improvement projects that will improve safety and reduce congestion. An estimated $41 billion in eligible airport infrastructure projects are needed between 2007-2011 Transportation Security Administration Explosive Detection Systems: $500 million to install Aviation Explosive Detection Systems in the nation's airports, improving security, and making life easier on travelers by speeding security lines. Funds are competitively awarded based on security risk. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT Public Housing Capital Fund: $5 billion for building repair and modernization, including critical safety repairs. Every dollar of Capital Fund expenditures produces $2.12 in economic return. $4 billion of the funds will be distributed to public housing authorities through the existing formula and $1 billion will be awarded through a competitive process for projects that improve energy efficiency. Energy Efficiency Housing Retrofits: $2.5 billion for a new program to upgrade HUD sponsored low-income housing to increase energy efficiency, including new insulation, windows, and furnaces. Funds will be competitively awarded. Community Development Block Grants: $1 billion for community and economic development projects including housing and services for those hit hard by tough economic times. HOME Investment Partnerships: $1.5 billion to help local communities build and rehabilitate low-income housing using green technologies. Thousands of ready-to-go housing projects have been stalled by the credit crunch. Funds are distributed by formula. Native American Housing Block Grants: $500 million to rehabilitate and improve energy efficiency at some of the over 42,000 housing units maintained by Native American housing programs. Half of the funding will be distributed by formula and half will be competitively awarded to projects that can be started quickly. Neighborhood Stabilization: $4.2 billion to help communities purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed, vacant properties in order to create more affordable housing and reduce neighborhood blight. Homeless Assistance Grants: $1.5 billion for the Emergency Shelter Grant program to provide short term rental assistance, housing relocation, and stabilization services for families during the economic crisis. Funds are distributed by formula. Rural Housing Insurance Fund: $500 million to support $22 billion in direct loans and loan guarantees to help rural families and individuals buy homes during the credit crunch. Last year these programs received $13.4 billion more in applications than they could fund. Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Program: $10 million for rural, high-need areas to undertake projects using sustainable and energy-efficient building and rehabilitation practices. Funds will be awarded by competition to projects that can begin quickly. Lead Paint: $100 million for competitive grants to local governments and nonprofit organizations to remove lead-based paint hazards in low-income housing. TITLE XIII: STATE FISCAL STABILIZATION FUND Medicaid Aid to States (FMAP): Approximately $87 billion to states, increasing through the end of FY 2010 the share of Medicaid costs the federal government reimburses states, with additional relief tied to rates of unemployment. In the previous recession the federal government increased its contribution to Medicaid to help states avoid cuts in health benefits at a time when low-income patient loads are increasing and State revenues are declining. State Education and Other Budget Priorities: $120 billion to states and school districts to stabilize budgets and prevent tax increases and deep cuts to critical education programs, including: $41 billion to local school districts through Title I ($13 billion), IDEA ($13 billion), a new School Modernization and Repair Program ($14 billion), and the Education Technology program ($1 billion). $79 billion in state fiscal relief, including: $39 billion to local school districts and public colleges and universities distributed through existing state and federal formulas; $15 billion to states as bonus grants as a reward for meeting key performance measures; and $25 billion to states for other high priority needs such as public safety and other critical services, which may include education. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families: $2.5 billion for block grants to help States deal with the surge in families needing help during the recession and to prevent them from cutting work programs and services for abused and neglected children.
01.30.2009	Read more: Facing Our Financial Crisis The House of Representatives passed an $825 billion stimulus package on January 28. It still awaits Senate approval, but here is a quick summary of the bill as it stands now, and a more thorough one, and how it could help you. As noted in our e-newsletter, the bill includes an average increase of $25 a week in jobless benefits through December 2009. It extends the current extended unemployment benefits program, which provides up to 33 weeks of unemployment compensation-through the end of 2009. Also, it extends health insurance coverage under the COBRA program for older workers beyond the current 18 months. If you have any questions about the bill, or how you might benefit from it, please click here or call 800-964-4699. Tip: If you are looking for a specific provision, press Ctrl+F to search for the term in the browser. The stimulus legislation will target: Infrastructure projects on roads, bridges, waterways and public transit, creating an estimated 1.5 million American jobs; Green energy projects that will create more than one million jobs; Tax cuts of up to $1,000 for more than four million Ohio families; Lower health care costs through the adoption of health information technology, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs Broader coverage for people who currently cannot afford health care; Increased student financial aid for more than a quarter of a million Ohio students; Help for workers who have been hurt by the economy, including more than 450,000 Ohioans who are jobless; Saving the jobs of teachers and police officers. How much does Ohio get? Additional Medicaid Funding Funding to Prevent Education & Other Cutbacks Pell Grant Recipients Additional Students Receiving Higher Ed. Tax Credits Infrastructure Investments (Highways, Transit, etc.) Families Receiving Make Work Pay Credit $2,826,874,000 $2,385,026,000 268,804 128,000 $1,575,509,341 4,179,000 Children Helped by Expansion of Child Tax Credit People Benefiting from Extension of UI Benefit Food Stamp Participants Jobs Saved or Created by End of 2010, with plan Impact on Unemployment Rate, with plan 623,000 91,704 1,209,000 171,750 -2.40% SUMMARY: AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT TITILE II: AGRICULTURE DEPARMENT OF AGRICULUTRE Department of Agriculture: $44 million for repairs and security improvements at USDA's headquarters. Agricultural Research Service: $209 million for agricultural research facilities across the country. ARS has a list of deferred maintenance work at facilities of roughly $315 million. Farm Service Agency: $245 million for critical IT improvements to systems that have been unable to handle workload increases. Watershed Infrastructure: $400 million for the Natural Resources Conservation Service watershed improvement programs to design and build flood protection and water quality projects, repair aging dams, and purchase and restore conservation easements in river flood zones. Rural Community Facilities: $200 million to support $1.2 billion in grants and loans to rural areas for critical community facilities, such as for healthcare, education, fire and rescue, day care, community centers, and libraries. There are over $1.2 billion in applications pending Rural Business-Cooperative Service: $100 million for rural business grants and loans to guarantee $2 billion in loans for rural businesses at a time of unprecedented demand due to the credit crunch. Private sector lenders are increasingly turning to this program to help businesses get access to capital. Wireless and Broadband Grants: $6 billion for broadband and wireless services in underserved areas to strengthen the economy and provide business and job opportunities in every section of America with benefits to e-commerce, education, and healthcare. For every dollar invested in broadband the economy sees a ten-fold return on that investment. Supplemental Nutrition Program Information Systems: $100 million to improve state management information systems for the WIC program. Food Stamp Benefit: $20 billion to increase the food stamp benefit by over 13% in order to help defray rising food costs. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance: $20 billion to provide nutrition assistance to modest-income families and to lift restrictions that limit the amount of time individuals can receive food stamps. Senior Nutrition Programs: $200 million for formula grants to states for elderly nutrition services including Meals on Wheels and Congregate Meals. After School Meals: $726 million to increase the number of states that provide free dinners to children and to encourage participation by new institutions by increasing snack reimbursement rates. TITILE III: COMMERCE-JUSTICE-SCIENCE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Economic Development Assistance: $250 million to address long-term economic distress in urban industrial cores and rural areas distributed based on need and ability to create jobs and attract private investment. EDA leverages $10 in private investments for $1 in federal funds. Periodic Census and Programs, Communications: $1 billion for work necessary to ensure a successful 2010 census, including $150 million for expanded communications and outreach programs to minimize undercounting of minority groups. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Satellites and Sensors: $600 million for satellite development and acquisitions, including climate sensors and climate modeling. NOAA Habitat Restoration: $400 million for ready-to-go habitat restoration projects. National Institute of Standards and Technology: $300 million for competitive construction grants for research science buildings at colleges, universities, and other research organizations and $100 million to coordinate research efforts of laboratories and national research facilities by setting interoperability standards for manufacturing. Small Business Credit: $430 million for new direct lending and loan guarantee authorities to make loans more attractive to lenders and free up capital. The number of loans guaranteed under the SBA's 7(a) business loan program was down 57% in the first quarter of this year compared to last. Industrial Technology Services: $100 million, including $70 million for the Technology Innovation Program to accelerate research in potentially revolutionary technologies with high job growth potential, and $30 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnerships to help small and mid-size manufacturers compete globally by providing them with access to technology. DTV Conversion Coupons: $650 million to continue the coupon program to enable American households to convert from analog television transmission to digital transmission. DEPARMENT OF JUSTICE State and Local Law Enforcement: $4 billion to support state and local law enforcement including $3 billion for the Byrne Justice Assistance formula grants to support local law enforcement efforts with equipment and operating costs, and $1 billion for the COPS hiring grant program, to hire about 13,000 new police officers for three years. The grantee is responsible for at least 25% in matching funds and must commit to use their own funds to keep the officer on board in the fourth year. SCIENCES National Science Foundation: $3 billion, including $2 billion for expanding employment opportunities in fundamental science and engineering to meet environmental challenges and to improve global economic competitiveness, $400 million to build major research facilities that perform cutting edge science, $300 million for major research equipment shared by institutions of higher education and other scientists, $200 million to repair and modernize science and engineering research facilities at the nation's institutions of higher education and other science labs, and $100 million is also included to improve instruction in science, math and engineering. NASA: $600 million, including $400 million to put more scientists to work doing climate change research, including Earth science research recommended by the National Academies, satellite sensors that measure solar radiation critical to understanding climate change, and a thermal infrared sensor to the Landsat Continuing Mapper necessary for water management, particularly in the western states; $150 million for research, development, and demonstration to improve aviation safety and Next Generation air traffic control (NextGen); and $50 million to repair NASA centers damaged by hurricanes and floods last year. TITLE IV: DEFENSE Department of Defense Research: $350 million for research into using renewable energy to power weapons systems and military bases. TITLE V: ENERGY & WATER CORPS OF ENGINEERS Corps of Engineers: $4.5 billion for environmental restoration, flood protection, hydropower, and navigation infrastructure critical to the economy. The Corps has a construction backlog of $61 billion. Bureau of Reclamation: $500 million to provide clean, reliable drinking water to rural areas and to ensure adequate water supply to western localities impacted by drought. The Bureau has backlogs of more than $1 billion in rural water projects and water reuse and recycling projects. DEPARMENT OF ENERGY Renewable Energy Loan Guarantees: $8 billion for loans for renewable energy power generation and transmission projects. Local Government Energy Efficiency Block Grants: $6.9 billion to help state and local governments make investments that make them more energy efficient and reduce carbon emissions. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Research: $2 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy research, development, demonstration, and deployment activities to foster energy independence, reduce carbon emissions, and cut utility bills. Funds are awarded on a competitive basis to universities, companies, and national laboratories. Advanced Battery Loans and Grants: $2 billion for the Advanced Battery Loan Guarantee and Grants Program, to support U.S. manufacturers of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems. America should lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. Energy Efficiency Grants and Loans for Institutions: $1.5 billion for energy sustainability and efficiency grants and loans to help school districts, institutes of higher education, local governments, and municipal utilities implement projects that will make them more energy efficient. Home Weatherization: $6.2 billion to help low-income families reduce their energy costs by weatherizing their homes and make our country more energy efficient. Smart Appliances: $300 million to provide consumers with rebates for buying energy efficient Energy Star products to replace old appliances, which will lower energy bills. Electric Transportation: $200 million for a new grant program to encourage electric vehicle technologies. Cleaning Fossil Energy: $2.4 billion for carbon capture and sequestration technology demonstration projects. This funding will provide valuable information necessary to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from industrial facilities and fossil fuel power plants. Industrial Energy Efficiency: $500 million for energy efficient manufacturing demonstration projects. Department of Energy: $1.9 billion for basic research into the physical sciences including high-energy physics, nuclear physics, and fusion energy sciences and improvements to DOE laboratories and scientific facilities. $400 million is for the Advanced Research Project Agency - Energy to support high-risk, high-payoff research into energy sources and energy efficiency. TITLE VI: FINANCIAL SERVICES GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION GSA Federal Buildings: $6.7 billion for renovations and repairs to federal buildings including at least $6 billion focused on increasing energy efficiency and conservation. Projects are selected based on GSA's ready-to-go priority list. GSA Federal Fleet: $600 million to replace older vehicles owned by the federal government with alternative fuel automobiles that will save on fuel costs and reduce carbon emissions. TITLE VII: HOMELAND SECURITY Border Ports of Entry: $1.15 billion to construct GSA and Customs and Border Patrol land ports of entry to improve border security, make trade and travel easier and reduce wait times, and to procure non-intrusive inspection technology at sea ports of entry, which is used to scan cargo containers to reduce the risk that containers can be used to smuggle weapons of mass destruction. Emergency Food and Shelter: $200 million to help local community organizations provide food, shelter, and support services to the nation's hungry, homeless, and people in economic crisis including one-month utility payments to prevent service cut-off and one-month rent or mortgage assistance to prevent evictions or help people leave shelters. Funds are distributed by formula based on unemployment and poverty rates. Coast Guard Bridges: $150 million for ready-to-go investments to repair or remove bridges deemed hazardous to marine navigation, thereby removing obstructions and improving the safety of marine navigation. TITLE VIII: INTERIOR & ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR Construction on Public Lands and Parks: $3.1 billion for infrastructure projects on federal lands including improvements to visitor facilities, road and trail restoration, preservation of buildings of cultural and historic importance, rehabilitation of abandoned mines and oil fields, and environmental cleanup projects. This includes $1.8 billion for the National Park Service, $325 million for the Bureau of Land Management, $300 million for the National Wildlife Refuges and National Fish Hatcheries, and $650 million for the Forest Service. National Treasures: $400 million, including $200 million to address the deterioration of the National Mall, such as repair of the Jefferson Memorial's collapsing Tidal Basin walls; $150 million to address the repair backlog at the Smithsonian; and $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts. U.S. Geological Survey: $200 million to repair and modernize U.S.G.S. science facilities and equipment, including improvements to laboratories, earthquake monitoring systems, and computing capacity. Reducing Wildfires Threats: $850 million for hazardous fuels removal and other efforts to prevent wildfires on public lands. Making these investments today will create jobs in the short run, but also save long term costs of fighting fires in the future. State and Private Forest Service Wildfire: $550 million for state and local volunteer programs and hazardous fuels reduction efforts which states and communities have determined are of the highest priority. Federal Forest Service Wildfire: $300 million for urgently needed hazard reduction on federal lands. Bureau of Indian Affairs: $500 million to address maintenance backlogs at schools, dams, detention and law enforcement facilities, and over 24,000 miles of roads. BIA schools alone have an over $1 billion construction and maintenance backlog including shamefully unsafe conditions. International Boundary and Water Commission: $224 million to repair flood control systems along the international segment of the Rio Grande damaged by hurricane Katrina and other serious storms. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY Clean Water State Revolving Fund: $6 billion for loans to help communities upgrade wastewater treatment systems. EPA estimates a $388 billion funding gap. The Association of State and Interstate Water Pollution Control Administrators found that 26 states have $10 billion in approved water projects. Drinking Water State Revolving Fund: $2 billion for loans for drinking water infrastructure. EPA estimates there is a $274 billion funding gap. The National Governors Association reported that there are $6 billion in ready-to-go projects, which could quickly be obligated. Rural Water and Waste Disposal: $1.5 billion to support $3.8 billion in grants and loans to help communities fund drinking water and wastewater treatment systems. In 2008, there were $2.4 billion in requests for water and waste loans and $990 million for water and waste grants went unfunded. Diesel Emissions Reduction: $300 million for grants and loans to state and local governments for projects that reduce diesel emissions, benefiting public health and reducing global warming. This includes technologies to retrofit emission exhaust systems on school buses, replace engines and vehicles, and establish anti-idling programs. 70% of the funds go to competitive grants and 30% funds grants to states with approved programs. Last year EPA was able to fund only 27% of the applications received. Brownfields: $100 million for competitive grants for evaluation and cleanup of former industrial and commercial sites - turning them from problem properties to productive community use. Last year EPA was only able to fund 37% of Brownfields applications. Superfund Hazardous Waste Cleanup: $800 million to clean up hazardous and toxic waste sites that threaten health and the environment. EPA has 1,255 sites on its National Priority List, selected based on a hazard ranking system. There are many Superfund sites ready for construction, but not funded due to budget shortfalls and over 600 sites with ongoing construction that could be accelerated. Leaking Underground Storage Tanks: $200 million for enforcement and cleanup of petroleum leaks from underground storage tanks at approximately 1,600 additional sites. There are an estimated 116,000 sites with the potential to contaminate important water supplies. Nuclear Waste Cleanup: $500 million for nuclear waste cleanup at sites contaminated as a result of the nation's past nuclear activities. Accelerating the completion of projects will reduce long-term costs. Indian Health Service Facilities: $550 million to modernize aging hospitals and health clinics and make healthcare technology upgrades to improve healthcare for underserved rural populations. TITLE IX: LABOR, HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES, & EDUCATION DEPARMENT OF LABOR Department of Labor Worker Protection and Oversight: $80 million to ensure that worker protection laws are enforced as recovery infrastructure investments are carried out. Job Corps Facilities: $300 million to upgrade job training facilities serving at-risk youth while improving energy efficiency. Training and Employment Services: $4 billion for job training including formula grants for adult, dislocated worker, and youth services (including $1.2 billion to create up to one million summer jobs for youth). The needs of workers also will be met through dislocated worker national emergency grants, new competitive grants for worker training in high growth and emerging industry sectors (with priority consideration to "green" jobs and healthcare), and increased funds for the YouthBuild program. Green jobs training will include preparing workers for activities supported by other economic recovery funds, such as retrofitting of buildings, green construction, and the production of renewable electric power. Vocational Rehabilitation State Grants: $500 million for state formula grants for construction and rehabilitation of facilities to help persons with disabilities prepare for gainful employment. Employment Services Grants: $500 million to match unemployed individuals to job openings through state employment service agencies and allow states to provide customized services. Funds are targeted to states with the greatest need based on labor force, unemployment, and long-term unemployed rates. Community Service Employment for Older Americans: $120 million to provide subsidized community service jobs to an additional 24,000 low-income older Americans. Benefits Extension: $27 billion to continue the current extended unemployment benefits program - which provides up to 33 weeks of extended benefits - through December 31, 2009 given rising unemployment. Increased Benefits: $9 billion to increase the current average unemployment insurance benefit from roughly $300 per week, paid out of State trust funds, by $25 per week using Federal funds, through December 2009. There are currently 5.3 million workers receiving regular UI and an additional 1.9 million receiving extended benefits. Unemployment Insurance Modernization: Provides funds to states though a "Reed Act" distribution, tied to states' meeting specific reforms to increase unemployment insurance coverage for low-wage, part-time, and other jobless workers. DEPARMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICE Health Information Technology: $20 billion to jumpstart efforts to computerize health records to cut costs and reduce medical errors. Prevention and Wellness Fund: $3 billion to fight preventable chronic diseases, the leading cause of deaths in the U.S., and infectious diseases. Preventing disease rather than treating illnesses is the most effective way to reduce healthcare costs. This includes hospital infection prevention, Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grants for state and local public health departments, immunization programs, and evidence-based disease prevention. Healthcare Effectiveness Research: $1.1 billion for Healthcare Research and Quality programs to compare the effectiveness of different medical treatments funded by Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP. Finding out what works best and educating patients and doctors will improve treatment and save taxpayers money. Community Health Centers: $1.5 billion, including $500 million to increase the number of uninsured Americans who receive quality healthcare and $1 billion to renovate clinics and make health information technology improvements. More than 400 applications submitted earlier this year for new or expanded CHC sites remain unfunded. Training Primary Care Providers: $600 million to address shortages and prepare our country for universal healthcare by training primary healthcare providers including doctors, dentists, and nurses as well as helping pay medical school expenses for students who agree to practice in underserved communities through the National Health Service Corps. Low-Income Home Energy Assistance: $1 billion to help low-income families pay for home heating and cooling at a time of rising energy costs. Child Support Enforcement: $1 billion to provide federal incentive funds for states to collect support owed to families. Social Security Administration Disability Backlog and Claims Processing: $500 million to help the Social Security Administration process a steep rise in disability and retirement claims, getting people their benefits faster, and preventing existing backlogs from getting worse. Within this total, $40 million will help SSI upgrade health information technology. Centers for Independent Living: $200 million for state formula grants to help individuals with disabilities continue to live in their communities. AmeriCorps Programs: $200 million to put approximately 16,000 additional AmeriCorps members to work doing national service, meeting needs of vulnerable populations and communities during the recession. Compassion Capital Fund: $100 million for grants to faith- and community-based organizations to provide critical safety net services to needy individuals and families. National Institutes of Health Biomedical Research: $2 billion, including $1.5 billion for expanding good jobs in biomedical research to study diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cancer, and heart disease - NIH is currently able to fund less than 20% of approved applications - and $500 million to implement the repair and improvement strategic plan developed by the NIH for its campuses. University Research Facilities: $1.5 billion for NIH to renovate university research facilities and help them compete for biomedical research grants. The National Science Foundation estimates a maintenance backlog of $3.9 billion in biological science research space. Funds are awarded competitively. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: $462 million to enable CDC to complete its Buildings and Facilities Master Plan, as well as renovations and construction needs of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development, Pandemic Flu, and Cyber Security: $900 million to prepare for a pandemic influenza, support advanced development of medical countermeasures for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats, and for cyber security protections at HHS. Social Security Administration Modernization: $400 million to replace the 30 year old Social Security Administration's National Computer Center to meet growing needs for processing retirement and disability claims and records storage. COBRA Healthcare for the Unemployed: $30.3 billion to extend health insurance coverage to the unemployed, extending the period of COBRA coverage for older and tenured workers beyond the 18 months provided under current law. Specifically, workers 55 and older, and workers who have worked for an employer for 10 or more years will be able to retain their COBRA coverage until they become Medicare eligible or secure coverage through a subsequent employer. In addition, subsidizing the first 12 months of COBRA coverage for eligible persons who have lost their jobs on or after September 1, 2008 at a 65 percent subsidy rate, the same rate provided under the Health Care Tax Credit for unemployed workers under the Trade Adjustment Assistance program. [Ways and Means] Medicaid Coverage for the Unemployed: Provides 100 percent federal funding through 2010 for optional State Medicaid coverage of individuals (and their dependents) who are receiving unemployment benefits or have exhausted those benefits and have no health insurance coverage. Other optional coverage groups are individuals (and their dependents) who are involuntarily unemployed and uninsured and whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of poverty, and unemployed uninsured individuals who are receiving food stamps." Payments to Disabled and Elderly: $4.2 billion to help 7.5 million low-income disabled and elderly individuals with rising costs by providing an additional SSI payment in 2009 equal to the average monthly federal payment under the program (approximately $450 for an individual and $630 for a couple). This one-time payment will serve as an immediate economic stimulus as half of SSI recipients have no other form of income and the other half average outside income of less than $450 per month. Community Services Block Grant: $1 billion for grants to local communities to support employment, food, housing, and healthcare efforts serving those hardest hit by the recession. Community action agencies have seen dramatic increases in requests for their assistance due to rising unemployment, housing foreclosures, and high food and fuel prices. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCTION Title I Help for Disadvantaged Kids: $13 billion for grants to help disadvantaged kids in nearly every school district and more than half of all public schools reach high academic standards. School Construction: $20 billion, including $14 billion for K-12 and $6 billion for higher education, for renovation and modernization, including technology upgrades and energy efficiency improvements. Also includes $100 million for school construction in communities that lack a local property tax base because they contain non-taxable federal lands such as military bases or Indian reservations, and $25 million to help charter schools build, obtain, and repair schools. Education Technology: $1 billion for 21st century classrooms, including computer and science labs and teacher technology training. Pell Grants: $15.6 billion to increase the maximum Pell Grant by $500, from $4,850 to $5,350. College Work-Study: $490 million to support undergraduate and graduate students who work. Student Loan Limit Increase: Increases limits on unsubsidized Stafford loans by $2,000. Student Aid Administration: $50 million to help the Department of Education administer surging student aid programs while navigating the changing student loan environment. K-12 Education: As states begin tackling a projected $350 billion in budget shortfalls these investments will prevent cuts to critical education programs and services. IDEA Special Education: $13 billion for formula grants to increase the federal share of special education costs and prevent these mandatory costs from forcing states to cut other areas of education. Statewide Data Systems: $250 million for competitive grants to states to design and develop data systems that analyze individual student data to find ways to improve student achievement, providing teachers and administrators with effective tools. Education for Homeless Children and Youth: $66 million for formula grants to states to provide services to homeless children including meals and transportation when high unemployment and home foreclosures have created an influx of homeless kids. Improving Teacher Quality: $300 million, including $200 million for competitive grants to school districts and states to provide financial incentives for teachers and principals who raise student achievement and close the achievement gaps in high-need schools and $100 million for competitive grants to states to address teacher shortages and modernize the teaching workforce. Child Care Development Block Grant: $2 billion to provide child care services for an additional 300,000 children in low-income families while their parents go to work. Today only one out of seven eligible children receives care. Head Start: $2.1 billion to provide comprehensive development services to help 110,000 additional children succeed in school. Funds are distributed based on need. Only about half of all eligible preschoolers and less than 3 percent of eligible infants and toddlers participate in Head Start. IDEA Infants and Families: $600 million for formula grants to help states serve children with disabilities age 2 and younger. TITLE X: MILITARY CONSTRUCTION & VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Medical Facilities: $3.75 billion for new construction of hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers, and $455 million in renovations to provide state-of-the-art medical care to service members and their families. Facilities Renovations: $2.1 billion to address needed repairs to military facilities. Troop Housing: $1.2 billion for new construction and $154 million for renovations to improve housing for our troops. Child Development Center: $360 million for new child development centers. Guard and Reserve: $400 million for new construction to support Guard and Reserve units across the country with operations and training facilities and utilities infrastructure. Closed Military Bases: $300 million for cleanup activities at closed military installations allowing local communities to redevelop these properties for productive use. The Department estimates that there is a $3.5 billion environmental cleanup backlog at bases closed during previous BRAC rounds. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS Veterans Medical Facilities: $950 million for veterans' medical facilities. The Department has identified a $5 billion backlog in needed repairs, including energy efficiency projects, at its 153 medical facilities. Veterans Cemeteries: $50 million to put people to work making monument and memorial repairs at cemeteries for American heroes. TITLE XI: DEPARTMENT OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE State Department Technology: $276 million to upgrade and modernize information technology platforms for the Department to meet security requirements post-9/11. TITLE XII: TRANSPORTATION & HUD DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Highway Infrastructure: $30 billion for highway and bridge construction projects. It is estimated that states have over 5,100 projects totaling over $64 billion that could be awarded within 180 days. These projects create jobs in the short term while saving commuters time and money in the long term. In 2006, the Department of Transportation estimated $8.5 billion was needed to maintain current systems and $61.4 billion was needed to improve highways and bridges. Transit: Public transportation saves Americans time and money, saving as much as 4.2 billion gallons of gasoline and reducing carbon emissions by 37 million metric tons each year. Alternative Buses and Trucks: $400 million to help state and local governments purchase efficient alternative fuel vehicles to reduce fuel costs and carbon emissions. New Construction: $1 billion for Capital Investment Grants for new commuter rail or other light rail systems to increase public use of mass transit and to speed projects already in construction. The Federal Transit Administration has $2.4 billion in pre-approved projects. Upgrades and Repair: $2 billion to modernize existing transit systems, including renovations to stations, security systems, computers, equipment, structures, signals, and communications. Funds will be distributed through the existing formula. The repair backlog is nearly $50 billion. Transit Capital Assistance: $6 billion to purchase buses and equipment needed to increase public transportation and improve intermodal and transit facilities. The Department of Transportation estimates a $3.2 billion maintenance backlog and $9.2 billion in needed improvements. The American Public Transportation Association identified 787 ready-to-go transit projects totaling $15.5 billion. Funds will be distributed through the existing formulas. Amtrak and Intercity Passenger Rail Construction Grants: $1.1 billion to improve the speed and capacity of intercity passenger rail service. The Department of Transportation's Inspector General estimates the North East Corridor alone has a backlog of over $10 billion. Airport Improvement Grants: $3 billion for airport improvement projects that will improve safety and reduce congestion. An estimated $41 billion in eligible airport infrastructure projects are needed between 2007-2011 Transportation Security Administration Explosive Detection Systems: $500 million to install Aviation Explosive Detection Systems in the nation's airports, improving security, and making life easier on travelers by speeding security lines. Funds are competitively awarded based on security risk. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT Public Housing Capital Fund: $5 billion for building repair and modernization, including critical safety repairs. Every dollar of Capital Fund expenditures produces $2.12 in economic return. $4 billion of the funds will be distributed to public housing authorities through the existing formula and $1 billion will be awarded through a competitive process for projects that improve energy efficiency. Energy Efficiency Housing Retrofits: $2.5 billion for a new program to upgrade HUD sponsored low-income housing to increase energy efficiency, including new insulation, windows, and furnaces. Funds will be competitively awarded. Community Development Block Grants: $1 billion for community and economic development projects including housing and services for those hit hard by tough economic times. HOME Investment Partnerships: $1.5 billion to help local communities build and rehabilitate low-income housing using green technologies. Thousands of ready-to-go housing projects have been stalled by the credit crunch. Funds are distributed by formula. Native American Housing Block Grants: $500 million to rehabilitate and improve energy efficiency at some of the over 42,000 housing units maintained by Native American housing programs. Half of the funding will be distributed by formula and half will be competitively awarded to projects that can be started quickly. Neighborhood Stabilization: $4.2 billion to help communities purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed, vacant properties in order to create more affordable housing and reduce neighborhood blight. Homeless Assistance Grants: $1.5 billion for the Emergency Shelter Grant program to provide short term rental assistance, housing relocation, and stabilization services for families during the economic crisis. Funds are distributed by formula. Rural Housing Insurance Fund: $500 million to support $22 billion in direct loans and loan guarantees to help rural families and individuals buy homes during the credit crunch. Last year these programs received $13.4 billion more in applications than they could fund. Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Program: $10 million for rural, high-need areas to undertake projects using sustainable and energy-efficient building and rehabilitation practices. Funds will be awarded by competition to projects that can begin quickly. Lead Paint: $100 million for competitive grants to local governments and nonprofit organizations to remove lead-based paint hazards in low-income housing. TITLE XIII: STATE FISCAL STABILIZATION FUND Medicaid Aid to States (FMAP): Approximately $87 billion to states, increasing through the end of FY 2010 the share of Medicaid costs the federal government reimburses states, with additional relief tied to rates of unemployment. In the previous recession the federal government increased its contribution to Medicaid to help states avoid cuts in health benefits at a time when low-income patient loads are increasing and State revenues are declining. State Education and Other Budget Priorities: $120 billion to states and school districts to stabilize budgets and prevent tax increases and deep cuts to critical education programs, including: $41 billion to local school districts through Title I ($13 billion), IDEA ($13 billion), a new School Modernization and Repair Program ($14 billion), and the Education Technology program ($1 billion). $79 billion in state fiscal relief, including: $39 billion to local school districts and public colleges and universities distributed through existing state and federal formulas; $15 billion to states as bonus grants as a reward for meeting key performance measures; and $25 billion to states for other high priority needs such as public safety and other critical services, which may include education. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families: $2.5 billion for block grants to help States deal with the surge in families needing help during the recession and to prevent them from cutting work programs and services for abused and neglected children.
01.15.2009	The bill, which reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for five years, preserves coverage for more than seven million American children, including more than a quarter of a million children in Ohio, and extends coverage to an additional 4.1 million children. According to Families USA, the measure would extend coverage to 119,000 children in Ohio, where currently 214,000 children remain uninsured. That translated to a reduction in the number of uninsured children in Ohio by 56 percent, according to the non-profit advocacy group. “During these difficult times, we must ensure that children of working families receive the quality, affordable health care they need,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “With more than 400,000 Ohioans out of work due to the poor economy, the danger is that children will fall through the cracks and fail to receive basic health care. “This bill means 11 million children in America will have regular doctor visits and preventive health care such as immunizations. It means they are more likely to receive health care in doctors’ offices as opposed to emergency rooms. It is fiscally responsible legislation and common sense public policy.” Funding for the program will be derived from a 61-cent increase in the federal tax on a pack of cigarettes, bringing the total tax to $1 per pack. The CHIP program provides health care coverage for children whose live in families with incomes that are too high in most states to qualify for Medicaid, but in many cases too low to afford private coverage.
01.12.2009	“We cannot allow employers to hide behind a mere 180 days and potentially successfully carry out pay discrimination day after day,” said Kaptur, the most senior woman in the House of Representatives and a long-time advocate for workers’ rights. She also emphasized that the current climate makes pay discrimination even more despicable. The Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 12) will strengthen the Equal Pay Act and close loopholes that have allowed many employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay. The bill passed by a vote of 256 for to 163 against. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women only make 78 cents for every dollar earned by a man. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (H.R. 11) would clarify that every paycheck or other compensation resulting from an earlier discriminatory pay decision constitutes a violation of the Civil Rights Act. As long as workers file their charges within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, their charges would be considered timely. This was the law prior to a Supreme Court’s May 2007 decision. The bill passed by a vote of 247 for to 171 against. According to published reports, the Ledbetter decision has already been cited in more than 300 discrimination cases. Not only have pay discrimination cases been adversely impacted, but protections guaranteed by the Fair Housing Act, Title IX, and the Eight Amendment have also been affected. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would apply to workers who file claims of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or disability. Lilly Ledbetter worked for nearly 20 years at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. She sued the company after learning that she was paid less then her male counterparts at the facility, despite having more experience than several of them. A jury found that her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her on the basis of sex. However, the Supreme Court said that Ledbetter had waited too long to sue for pay discrimination, despite the fact that she filed a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as soon as she received an anonymous note alerting her to pay discrimination. While Ledbetter filed her charge within 180 days of receiving discriminatory pay, the court ruled that, since Ledbetter did not raise a claim within 180 days of the employer’s decision to pay her less, she could not receive any relief. Under this Supreme Court decision, employees in Ledbetter’s position would be forced to live with discriminatory paychecks for the rest of their careers.
01.06.2009	Kaptur began her 14th term as representative of Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District. The occasion marked her elevation to the role of dean of the Ohio delegation and a place in House history as the longest-serving Democratic woman in the history of the House of Representatives. “I am thrilled to begin a new Congress with so many new faces from Ohio,” Kaptur said. “With a Democratic President and such a strong Democratic majority in Congress, we have an unprecedented opportunity to ensure peace and prosperity for Ohio and the entire country.” Besides serving as teller clerk at the invitation of Speaker Pelosi, the Speaker also appointed Kaptur to serve as one of her appointees to the important House Steering and Policy Committee, the leadership body that assigns members to committees and spearheads internal policy discussions in the Democratic Caucus. As a result of yesterday’s Steering and Policy decisions, Kaptur was able to insure that Ohio will be well-represented by Freshmen across the Committee spectrum. Representative Marcia Fudge (OH-11) was named to the Education and Labor Committee, Representatives Steve Driehaus (OH-01) and Mary Jo Kilroy (OH-15) were both named to the Financial Services Committee, and John Boccieri (OH-16) was named to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Last month, Steering and Policy chose Representatives Zack Space (OH18) and Betty Sutton (OH-13) for the prestigious Energy and Commerce Committee. Kaptur, meanwhile, will remain as a senior member of the coveted House Appropriations Committee where subcommittee selection will take place later this week. She will also continue to serve on the Budget Committee. The Ohio delegation now stands at ten Democrats to eight Republicans, the first time since 1934 the delegation has had a two seat Democratic margin.
01.05.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Coming to DC for the Inauguration? Here is some useful information: Swearing In Ceremony Metro information Events and Attractions More information is available at https:/inaugural.senate.gov For more information about visiting DC, click here . The Swearing In: Ticket holders should make careful note of the gate directions printed on each ticket, and be aware of the prohibited items list for this event. Prohibited items include, but are not limited to: • Firearms and ammunition (either real or simulated) • Suitcases • Explosives of any kind (including fireworks) • Thermoses • Knives, blades, or sharp objects (of any length) • Coolers • Mace and/or pepper spray • Strollers • Sticks or poles • Umbrellas • Pocket or hand tools, such as "Leatherman" • Laser pointers • Packages • Signs • Backpacks • Posters • Large bags • Animals (other than service animals) • Duffel bags • Alcoholic beverages • Tripods • Camera bags Other items that may pose a threat to the security of the event as determined by and at the discretion of the security screeners Cameras are permitted on the Capitol Grounds, however, tripods and camera bags are prohibited items. For extensive visitor information, you may wish to direct constituents to the Joint Committee on the Inaugural Ceremony website: https://inaugural.senate.gov/ Metro and Public Transportation From WMATA: ON Monday January 19, the Metro will open at 5 am and close at midnight. On January 20, Metrorail will operate rush hour service for 17 consecutive hours (4 a.m. to 9 p.m.), will stay open for two extra hours (until 2 a.m.), charge $4 (cash only) for parking at its facilities and will be one important transportation alternative for people who are planning to attend the Inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama on Tuesday, January 20, 2009. Metro officials expect extremely crowded conditions on Inauguration Day. Metrorail stations and trains will be packed as people head to the Inauguration, and expect to see even tighter conditions afterward. Expect the crowds to be huge with hundreds of thousands of people expected to be in the nation's capital not only for Inauguration Day, but for the days preceding it as well. The U.S. Secret Service has deemed the Inauguration as a special national security event and due to security measures, the Archives-Navy Memorial/Penn Quarter Metrorail station on Metro's Green and Yellow Lines and the Smithsonian Metrorail station on the Blue and Orange Lines, will be closed all day on Inauguration Day, Tuesday, January 20. For more information on Inauguration transportation, click here: https://www.wmata.com/getting_around/metro_events/inauguration.cfm Inaugural events and other attractions: · View a civil rights display at the Smithsonian Institution. · See a copy of the Gettysburg Address at the National Museum of American History. · Visit the memorial to those who preserved freedom at the National World War II Memorial on the Mall. · Attend a free concert by the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin, on January 19 at the Kennedy Center 's Millennium Stage. (Tickets will be given out, one per person, first come first served, on the day of the concert.) · Make your way to Capitol Hill's newest attraction, the Capitol Visitor Center · Stand on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, where Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech. · Take a stroll through grand Union Station, including the Presidential Suite, where presidents waited to board trains and greeted dignitaries. For more information, https://www.pic2009.org or Visiting DC
01.05.2009	If you make the trip to Washington for the 56th presidential inaugural, I sincerely hope you will be able to visit our office in Washington, D.C. The office is located in Room 2186 of the Rayburn House Office Building (first floor). Be prepared, however, to wait up to an hour or more to get into the building, which is located across Independence Ave.from the U.S. Capitol. As we have during previous inaugurations, our office staff and I look forward to seeing you and are committed to making your experience as rewarding as possible. The inauguration of President Obama, the theme of which is "The New Birth of Freedom," promises to be one of the most historic and memorable moments of our nation’s history. As many as four million people from around the world are expected to visit our nation's capital to witness the formal installation of America 's new president. The fact that Inauguration Day comes on the day after Martin Luther King, Jr. Day provides many people an extra day to make their way to Washington to be a part of this historic occasion. As you are aware, my office will receive only a scant number of tickets for the official swearing-in ceremony. I very much regret not being able to accommodate everyone's desire for tickets to the noontime swearing-in. With approximately 198 tickets and approximately 4,000 requests, the process has been very difficult. You will be notified separately by phone, email or U.S. Mail if your name has been selected in the random drawing for a ticket to the ceremony and about procedures to pick up the ticket, which cannot be mailed. Meanwhile, officials in the federal government and the District of Columbia are making plans to accommodate all who will attend the ceremonies. In keeping with its pledge to make the inauguration of President-elect Obama one of the most open and accessible in history, the Presidential Inaugural Committee has opened the entire length of the National Mall to the public so that more people than ever before will be able to witness the swearing-in of the President from a vantage point in sight of the Capitol. The Inaugural Committee has made space available at this historic location to members of the public who are unable to obtain tickets to the swearing-in. Those who come to witness the swearing-in on the Mall will be able to watch and listen to the ceremony on large screens along the Mall. This is where most of the people will gather to be a part of history.Also, tickets are not required for the Inaugural Parade or many of the other activities. You can obtain more information about the official inaugural ceremonies at www.pic2009.org.The District of Columbia tourism office has compiled a list of 44 free events, including:You may: · View a civil rights display at the Smithsonian Institution.· See a copy of the Gettysburg Address at the National Museum of American History.· Visit the memorial to those who preserved freedom at the National World War II Memorial on the Mall.· Attend a free concert by the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin, on January 19 at the Kennedy Center 's Millennium Stage. (Tickets will be given out, one per person, first come first served, on the day of the concert.)· Make your way to Capitol Hill’s newest attraction, the Capitol Visitor Center · Stand on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, where Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech. · Take a stroll through grand Union Station, including the Presidential Suite, where presidents waited to board trains and greeted dignitaries. Please let me provide some other tips: Travel: Travel in the District of Columbia will be very difficult on Inauguration Day; the only feasible mode of transportation will be the Metro subway system and buses. A good way to access the Metro subway system is through SmarTrip cards and one-day passes. The D.C. Metro will be selling special commemorative Inaugural SmarTrip cards and one-day passes on line. Lodging: Most hotels and motels in the D.C. metro area are sold out during the Inaugural period, but accommodations can still be found in outlying areas. Be prepared to stay up to 100 miles away from Washington . Accommodations in the District of Columbia might entail multiple-night stay at exorbitantly high prices. Weather: Dress warmly. Washington weather in January can be mild or it can be bitterly cold. Be prepared for a cold and damp day and bring a rain poncho; umbrellas will likely not be allowed due to security concerns. If you have questions about the Inauguration, please call my office. I hope to see you on Inauguration Day!
12.18.2008	Are you facing foreclosure? Click here for help. On December 5, 2008, Congresswoman Kaptur wrote a letter to Secretary Paulson detailing the devastating impact of rising foreclosures on Toledo and northern Ohio. She requested that the Secretary look to the region as a test bed to learn how federal programs could be better crafted to improve the economic conditions of local communities. Congresswoman Kaptur then hand delivered to the Treasury the list of more than 4,000 foreclosures that have occurred in Lucas County this year. Marcy delivering the four-column list of 2007 Lucas County foreclosures to the Treasury Department. The $700 billion Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) has not been an effective tool at the local level because it fails to address the root of our economic woes—rising foreclosures. The $300 billion Federal Housing Administration program designed to help modify troubled mortgage loans has been similarly ineffective: The program has received fewer than 200 applications nationwide since taking effect on October 1, and as of December 10, not a single loan had been modified. If nothing is done, another 600 families will lose their homes in Lucas County by the end of January, as will thousands more nationwide. To this end, Congresswoman Kaptur convened a televideoconference with Washington agency officials (such as the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)) and local Ohio experts to answer the question, "What is it that the U.S. Government could be doing better to make a difference in the housing foreclosure crisis?" Federal government officials received a firsthand account of the challenges and roadblocks faced by county commissioners, legal aid attorneys, realtors, housing counselors and other advocates in Ohio working to meet the needs of troubled homeowners. The agency officials agreed to continue to work with our region to better understand local needs. (Click here to read Marcy's letter to Secretay Paulson.)
12.11.2008	Mr. Speaker, it's a particular joy this evening to have Congressman Nick Lampson in the Chair as Speaker Pro Tem and thank him for his remarkable and exemplary service to the people of the United States. Tonight, I would like to address the subject of the fact that a majority of House Members today voted for a bridge loan, a very tightly structured bridge loan, to throw a lifeline to American workers, American communities, American manufacturing, to save American jobs, in fact, one of every 10 jobs in our country. They're jobs not just in the so-called automotive assembly plants, but twice as many jobs in the automotive parts plants, the steel industry, the plastic industry, the semi-conductor industry, even the textile industry. Nearly half of that production is used in automotive products. It is simply staggering the way in which this integrated set of production occurs in our country. What was passed was a bridge loan to the auto industry, and I underline the word "loan." It has to be paid back. It has to be paid back in 7 years, and it has to be paid back with interest, 5 percent interest over the first 5 years, and 9 percent interest over the last 2 years. It requires restructuring by March 31, severe restructuring in order to place the United States in a competitive position again in our country and globally. It requires enormous sacrifice. Now, what's interesting to me is the amount of the total loan was $15 billion; yet Wall Street received $700 billion plus, $750 billion, in that bill that passed here. There were no such requirements. There's no mandatory payback. There are no sacrifices that are as significant as they're being asked of this manufacturing industry, and the manufacturing of automobiles is a really tangible, goods producing industry. It creates real value. It creates wealth because you sell something. Wall Street's bailout is basically accounting and paper trades. They don't really produce anything. And one of the points I want to make tonight is that in order to lead America forward out of this deep, deepening recession in which we find ourselves, we have to manufacture our way out. We have to grow our way out of it, and we are not in recession because of the automotive industry. In fact, the reverse is true. The auto industry is the victim of the credit crunch caused by the mortgage foreclosure crisis. The bailout of Wall Street, the improper bill that was passed here, is making the situation worse, and it's affecting industries like the automotive industry. I visited the U.S. Treasury Department today as well to share a list of foreclosures just in my home county of Lucas County in Toledo, Ohio. That is 4,100 homes since the beginning of this year. Before the end of January of next, an additional 600 families will lose their homes just in that county because the TARP program, the Wall Street bailout program, is not working at the local level. The list is so long I could roll it through the Chamber and out that door, and there would still be more paper left, and that's with four columns. In fact, it could probably be rolled over to the Senate for the size that it is. Now, why is the Treasury program not working? The first reason it's not working is Treasury's not a housing agency. Its experience is not in resolving mortgage workouts. More paper shuffling isn't going to solve the problem. What's happening over at Treasury is they're buying banks. They are concentrating the banking system of this country rather than doing mortgage workouts, and they're concentrating them up on Wall Street, and the big banks like PNC, which has just bought National City Bank in the State of Ohio, National City shouldn't have been purchased. A workout should have been done in Ohio for the loans that gravitated to Ohio and may have been troubled. Seventy-five percent of the loans were working before the Treasury Department took over. The problem is that the Treasury Department is like a truck with several wheels, and they're all going in a different direction. There's not coordination. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation should be involved to do the mortgage workouts on the books of local banks. That's really not happening for most of the loans at risk. The Securities and Exchange Commission should be taking a look at their accounting standards and marking them to true value. You know, in order to fix the automotive industry, you've got to fix the mortgage industry, and the Wall Street bailout isn't working. Mr. Speaker, Godspeed to you in your future years.
12.05.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the unemployment rate in Ohio stands at 6.7 percent and is almost certain to climb when November statistics are released. The U.S. Department of Labor has reported that more than 500,000 jobs were lost nationwide during the month of November. More than 400,000 Ohioans are currently out of work and joblessness in the state is hitting levels that have not been witnessed in at least 16 years.Individuals who are eligible for the extended benefits will be contacted by telephone by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services. For more information, contact your local unemployment office.
12.05.2008	Although she is not a member of the House Financial Services Committee, Kaptur will attend the hearing at which chief executive officers of Ford, Chrysler and General Motors will testify along with the president of the United Auto Workers. The Ninth Congressional District of Ohio is situated in the heart of the nation’s automobile production industry; unemployment in Lucas County, the largest county in the district, has soared to 8.9 percent.“Losing more than half a million jobs in one month is startling," Kaptur said in response to the latest jobless report from the U.S. Department of Labor. "Northern Ohio is already taking the brunt of the national economic crisis,” said Kaptur. “More than 400,000 Ohioans are already out of work. If Congress fails to step up to the plate and help America ’s auto industry, the rest of the country will feel the ripple effect in a dramatic way.”Kaptur said, “Even though some try to deny it, the truth is manufacturing remains the backbone of the American economy--and auto production remains the backbone of manufacturing. America ’s economy will not easily recover from a broken back.“What's more, if Congress falls all over itself to reward financial giants who pay huge bonuses, take advantage of the middle class, and make poor investment decisions, then surely it can offer loans and lines of credit to and industry that created the middle class and has long provided our nation with economic and national security."
12.03.2008	Flanked by a prototype Jeep EV (electric vehicle), Kaptur and LaSorda praised workers at the supplier park for their productivity and underscored the importance of a vibrant manufacturing sector in America centered by a rejuvenated motor vehicle industry.Kaptur expressed support for a bridge loan for U.S. automakers, who are reeling from a sharp drop in sales in recent months. “Just as important as that bridge loan are new trade and tax policies, so that American companies and American workers can compete on a level playing field,” she said.LaSorda said a healthy auto industry is important for America’s national security, noting the long relationship between Toledo and Jeep, which started back in World War II when Army Chief of Staff George C. Marshall authorized production of a “general purpose (GP)” vehicle for American troops in the European theater.Approximately 200 workers joined Congresswoman Kaptur and Mr. LaSorda, along with officials of the United Auto Workers, suppliers, and other local officials in a community-wide show of support for the Chrysler facility, which anchors the local economy with a workforce of approximately 2,000 men and women.
11.26.2008	“We have not witnessed this type of deterioration in the job market in some areas for almost a quarter of a century,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “People who are out of work can’t wait two months for a new president to take office. We need leadership now to create jobs and deliver emergency food assistance to struggling families.”Kaptur noted that unemployment in Ohio in October climbed to 6.8 percent, with more than 400,000 Ohioans out of work, including more than 25,000 workers in the Ninth Congressional District. The unemployment rate in Lucas County in October was 8.9 percent, which is the highest rate for October since 1992 (8.5%). More than 20,000 people are unemployed in the most populous county in Kaptur’s district. In Toledo , the jobless rate was 9.6 percent, which is the highest for October in 24 years (9.9% in October 1984). The unemployment rate in Erie County in October was 7.4 percent (highest since 1992, 9.6%). Approximately 3,200 workers are unemployed in Erie County . In Sandusky , the unemployment rate is 8.2 percent (highest October rate since 8.5% in 1993). The jobless rate in Ottawa County in October was 8.3 percent (highest October rate since 1984 at 9.1%). Approximately 1,800 workers are unemployed. In Lorain County , the unemployment rate was 6.4 percent (highest in October since 1995 at 7.1%). Approximately 10,000 workers are unemployed in Lorain County , the western portion of which is located in the Ninth Congressional District. Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, said President Bush and Senate Republicans should drop their opposition to H.R. 7110, authored by Appropriations Chairman David Obey, which passed the House in September. The Obey bill would make appropriations for: highway and bridge construction; Amtrak; public transit; clean water projects; ‘green energy’ projects for public schools; renewable energy; and emergency food assistance under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
11.21.2008	The bill provides extended benefits for more than 10 million jobless Americans. Ohio is suffering from an jobless rate of 7.2 percent, with 435,000 Ohioans officially listed as unemployed. The rate in Ohio one year ago was 5.7 percent. “Thousands of people in our state need a lifeline during these trying times,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “Extended benefits can ease the pain for thousands of Ohio families until the economy stabilizes.” The legislation provides an additional seven weeks of payments for workers who have exhausted their benefits. Workers in high-unemployment states would receive an additional 13 weeks beyond the regular 26 weeks of benefits. The benefits in the legislation are in addition to the 13-week extension that Congress passed in June. Kaptur said details about the extended benefits will be made available later by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services.
11.19.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur repeated her support for federal help for the U.S. auto industry following a hearing on Capitol Hill that featured the chief executive officers of the Big Three and the president of the United Auto Workers. Congresswoman Kaptur attended a special hearing of the House Committee on Financial Services at the invitation of Chairman Barney Frank (D-Mass.). Kaptur’s colleagues from the Michigan congressional delegation testified at the hearing, along with Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Auto Workers, Robert Nardelli, CEO of Chrysler, Rick Wagoner, CEO of General Motors, and Alan Mulally, CEO of Ford Motor Company. “Despite its troubles, the U.S. auto industry remains the backbone of U.S. manufacturing, providing more than 100,000 jobs in Ohio alone, not to mention thousands more in dealerships and parts makers,” Kaptur said after the hearing. “An immediate bridge loan is important because bankruptcy is simply not a viable option.” The Ninth Congressional District is a major center for auto production in America. Kaptur, a member of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee, said national security concerns also underlie her concern for the health of the Big Three automakers. “This industry is a vital part of our industrial base. No major industrial power has ever survived without a thriving domestic manufacturing industry,” she said. Congresswoman Kaptur said she also supports tax incentives for consumers to buy American-made cars and trucks as another short-term response to the crisis in the industry, which has seen sales fall sharply in recent months. A medium-term component of the federal response, Kaptur said, should be tax and trade policies that create a level playing field for U.S.-made products in the face of patently unfair competition from closed-market nations such as Japan and Korea and an expected challenge from China. In the long term, Kaptur said, the federal government should encourage automakers to accelerate the development of green technology and fuel-efficient products as America moves towards energy independence. “This is a crucial moment for our region,” said Kaptur. “When America had a thriving auto sector, America had a health economy. In many ways, the rise of the automobile industry in America parallels the rise of the middle class. We have to take action.”
11.19.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur attended a special hearing of the House Committee on Financial Services at the invitation of Chairman Barney Frank (D-Mass.). Kaptur’s colleagues from the Michigan congressional delegation testified at the hearing, along with Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Auto Workers, Robert Nardelli, CEO of Chrysler, Rick Wagoner, CEO of General Motors, and Alan Mulally, CEO of Ford Motor Company. “Despite its troubles, the U.S. auto industry remains the backbone of U.S. manufacturing, providing more than 100,000 jobs in Ohio alone, not to mention thousands more in dealerships and parts makers,” Kaptur said after the hearing. “An immediate bridge loan is important because bankruptcy is simply not a viable option.” The Ninth Congressional District is a major center for auto production in America. Kaptur, a member of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee, said national security concerns also underlie her concern for the health of the Big Three automakers. “This industry is a vital part of our industrial base. No major industrial power has ever survived without a thriving domestic manufacturing industry,” she said. Congresswoman Kaptur said she also supports tax incentives for consumers to buy American-made cars and trucks as another short-term response to the crisis in the industry, which has seen sales fall sharply in recent months. A medium-term component of the federal response, Kaptur said, should be tax and trade policies that create a level playing field for U.S.-made products in the face of patently unfair competition from closed-market nations such as Japan and Korea and an expected challenge from China. In the long term, Kaptur said, the federal government should encourage automakers to accelerate the development of green technology and fuel-efficient products as America moves towards energy independence. “This is a crucial moment for our region,” said Kaptur. “When America had a thriving auto sector, America had a healthy economy. In many ways, the rise of the automobile industry in America parallels the rise of the middle class. We have to take action.”
11.07.2008	“We must not allow our local communities to be shut out while big banks—who just happen to be getting billions of dollars from the taxpayers—sell these properties in our community,” said Kaptur, a fierce opponent of the Wall Street bailout bill. Kaptur said she objected to “outside investors” bidding on properties while communities are still waiting on funds to perform mortgage workouts or buy housing stock for rehabilitation or demolition. “I have been concerned all along that the foreclosure prevention bill that became law in August was inadequate to address the magnitude of the problem in Toledo, Sandusky and other communities,” Kaptur said. “We need time for our local communities to prepare their plans and get their allocations from the federal government. Auctions such as these, however, take away any chance for our communities to deal with this situation in a positive manner, including buying at least some of the affected properties.” She noted that foreclosures in Lucas County, the largest county in the Ninth Congressional District, probably exceeded last year’s total sometime this year. Total foreclosures in Lucas County last year were 3,486; foreclosures through October of this year were 3,427 and were expected to top 4,000 for the year. “It is important for the American people to know who is benefiting off our people’s pain. Instead of working with homeowners to renegotiate their mortgages, these very same firms who have received bailout monies are now auctioning off those homes—quite possibly to outside investors—even before local governments are given the tools they need.” Kaptur said local citizens should be aware that “there are those in our society who are making untold billions off the pain of our people. They should be brought to justice, no matter how long it takes.” Kaptur said the city of Toledo is projected to receive approximately $12.2 million from the federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program. The state will receive an additional $117 million, some of which could end up in Toledo. She said state and local governments will be able to use their grants to acquire land and property, demolish or rehabilitate abandoned properties, and/or offer down payment and closing cost assistance. They can also create land banks to assemble, manage or dispose of vacant land. “Unless we delay these premature auctions, those megabanks who did this damage to America's families will benefit even more,” Kaptur said. “Not only did they make billions of dollars before the housing bubble burst, now they will acquire property at rock bottom prices through sheriff's sales, then resell units, and by dumping new mortgages to FHA insurance, they minimize their risk while positioning themselves to benefit handsomely on the upside as property values increase over time. In other words, the taxpayers eat their risk, they are made more than whole, while millions of our citizens go bankrupt and are foreclosed." Kaptur urged homeowners to seek foreclosure counseling by calling 211.
11.03.2008	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur delivered news of a $7.7 million federal investment in transportation and jobs in the historic south end of Toledo. The Congresswoman was joined by officials of TARTA and the Toledo Lucas County Port Authority when she announced the federal funding to construct a new facility for the Toledo Area Regional Paratransit Service (TARPS) at a site across from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Plaza, Toledo’s train station. Kaptur secured $7.7 million in federal awards for the new TARPS center, including $6.27 million in the federal transportation bill. “TARPS plays an indispensable role in the life of our community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “And with the senior citizen population growing, transportation service is essential for citizens with disabilities to continue leading independent lives.” TARPS provides service on a reservation basis for area citizens who are unable to access TARTA fixed-route transportation, usually either because of a disability or the inability to travel to or from a bus stop. Riders pay $2 per trip. “TARPS is a visible symbol of a caring community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It acts as a safety net for those persons in our community who do not have the functional capability to ride TARTA’s regular buses.” “Today is a dream come true, nearly 15 years in the making. With the help of the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority, we first removed the old Page Dairy and modernized our passenger rail station-- now Ohio's largest—and began to prepare our region for future high-speed rail. Our goal to wrap other transportation and additional activities around the site and secure good jobs in the near South End comes closer to fruition with this federal investment. With this TARPS hub, as well as a future Metropark now being planned adjacent to the river behind this site, this historic district will become a center for water, rail, and consolidated overland transport,” Kaptur continued. The Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority assisted Kaptur and TARTA in acquiring the site and clearing it for construction. The Port will continue as a partner in the project as the owner and operator of the adjacent Martin Luther King, Jr. Plaza. “This is an excellent example of the reach of our Port Authority in concert with local officials to improve our local economy. The Port Authority celebrates the cohesive efforts of Congresswoman Kaptur, the City of Toledo, Lucas County and the Port Authority to bring this project to reality,” said Paul Toth, Interim President, Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority. Demand for TARPS service is growing at a rate of approximately 15 percent annually, Kaptur said. Approximately 2,600 active TARPS riders made a total of approximately 122,000 trips in 2007 and projected ridership this year is 140,000 trips. Kaptur noted that every $1 investment in public transportation generates approximately $6 in economic return for the community, not even counting the benefit of reduced dependence on imported oil and a smaller carbon footprint for the area.
10.31.2008	“TARPS plays an indispensable role in the life of our community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “And with the senior citizen population growing, transportation service is essential for citizens with disabilities to continue leading independent lives.” TARPS provides service on a reservation basis for area citizens who are unable to access TARTA fixed-route transportation, usually either because of a disability or the inability to travel to or from a bus stop. Riders pay $2 per trip. “TARPS is a visible symbol of a caring community,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “It acts as a safety net for those persons in our community who do not have the functional capability to ride TARTA’s regular buses.” “Today is a dream come true, nearly 15 years in the making. With the help of the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority, we first removed the old Page Dairy and modernized our passenger rail station-- now Ohio's largest—and began to prepare our region for future high-speed rail. Our goal to wrap other transportation and additional activities around the site and secure good jobs in the near South End comes closer to fruition with this federal investment. With this TARPS hub, as well as a future Metropark now being planned adjacent to the river behind this site, this historic district will become a center for water, rail, and consolidated overland transport,” Kaptur continued. The Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority assisted Kaptur and TARTA in acquiring the site and clearing it for construction. The Port will continue as a partner in the project as the owner and operator of the adjacent Martin Luther King, Jr. Plaza. “This is an excellent example of the reach of our Port Authority in concert with local officials to improve our local economy. The Port Authority celebrates the cohesive efforts of Congresswoman Kaptur, the City of Toledo, Lucas County and the Port Authority to bring this project to reality,” said Paul Toth, Interim President, Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority. Demand for TARPS service is growing at a rate of approximately 15 percent annually, Kaptur said. Approximately 2,600 active TARPS riders made a total of approximately 122,000 trips in 2007 and projected ridership this year is 140,000 trips. Kaptur noted that every $1 investment in public transportation generates approximately $6 in economic return for the community, not even counting the benefit of reduced dependence on imported oil and a smaller carbon footprint for the area.
10.31.2008	“This endeavor represents the future of our community, where cutting edge research, alternative energy, and economic development come together,” Kaptur said. “The University of Toledo is already at the forefront of research, and now our whole community can look forward to supporting the ideas and innovation that result from a vibrant student body on an improved campus." UT has gained a national reputation for its efforts to move patented technologies to commercialization, benefitting local job creation and income for the university, Kaptur said. Kaptur joined UT President Lloyd Jacobs, Robert Hickey of the Economic Development Administration, and Mr. Norm Nitschke. The project is supported by a $2 million federal award, $1 million from the State of Ohio, and $1 million from the Nitschke family. The incubator will assist members of the UT community to market research and will facilitate the broadening of the scope of research performed at the university.
10.31.2008	At least 100 students will be assisted through various educational, recreational, health and social skills offerings in after school activities. Noted Kaptur, “I applaud the efforts of the Boys & Girls Clubs to offer quality activities developing the body, mind, and spirit of young people in a structured and supervised setting in which they feel comfortable. Many of our nation’s leading citizens took advantage of the Boys & Girls Clubs in the neighborhoods of their childhoods, and credit the lessons learned there as contributing to their success. We see these students participating now, and know that our future will be better for the skills they gain today. We should also congratulate Lagrange Development Corporation (LDC) for its multi-year effort to obtain agreement between Toledo Public Schools and the Boys and Girls Clubs to share this space, allowing a seamless move from in-school to after-school activities and congratulations are due to Sherman School staff and parents and to TPS for their enthusiastic support of this partnership.” The Boys & Girls Club is dedicated to promoting responsible leadership by developing youth’s character, educational and social growth. Over 116 years, the Toledo Boys and Girls Clubs have served thousands of young people. The Sherman School Club will be open ten hours per week, 3:30 to 5:30 PM Mondays through Fridays. University of Toledo volunteers will work with students alongside Boys & Girls Club staff to tutor and provide one-on-one assistance to 100 students.
10.27.2008	PNC Financial Services Group said it would pay approximately $5.6 billion for the Cleveland-based National City, which operates approximately 20 branches in the Toledo area. The acquisition will make PNC the fifth-largest bank in America as measured by deposits and give PNC the largest deposit share position in the state of Ohio. Kaptur, however, urged the administration to fully engage the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s net worth certificate program as a critical step to settle the nation’s banking system. “America does not need a more concentrated banking system,” Kaptur said. “It needs an effective answer to interbank and market unsteadiness. That answer lies in empowering our local banks to do business as normal by enhancing their creditworthiness in the regions in which they conduct business, not eating them alive. “In addition, the administration needs to immediately stop the continuing mortgage foreclosure hemorrhage--by accelerating mortgage workouts in their regions. The epicenter of the banks' problems result from the shrinking value of real estate loans on their balance sheets due to declining property values. “In concert with this effort, the Securities and Exchange Commission has an obligation to mark mortgage assets to true market value, not an arbitrary index. “Unless these steps are taken, the economic situation will worsen. A stimulus package being contemplated by Congress cannot hope to offset the damage being done daily to our banking system by the inept, uneven, and ineffective approach that this administration has undertaken. “Washington Mutual, which was a good bank, never should have disappeared as a bank. Now, here in Ohio, National City, another good bank headquartered in our own state, has been gobbled up. This is wrongheaded policy that is hurting our economy more each day. It reminds me of the book ‘Barbarians at the Gate.’ Absent the robust use of FDIC's net worth certificate program, coupled with accelerating mortgage workouts, and invoking SEC's accounting powers, the heedless and needless mega-concentration of our financial system will continue. “I have been asking myself if the Bush Administration is simply inept in dealing with this situation, as it was with Katrina. When a real national emergency required dispatch, it fouled. If it is not ineptitude, then what we are witnessing is a hostile takeover and plundering by Wall Street's most irresponsible institutions of our sound local and state banks, and with it, the acquired wealth of the American people, six weeks before elections and three months before a new administration is sworn in. “This allows plenty of time for mischief. With National City's acquisition resulting from mark-to-market accounting of declining real estate assets, billions of dollars have been lost by shareholders, pension funds, and ordinary conservative people. What citizen can sit idly and not express outrage at the plunder and hamhanded fist of Wall Street in our pocketbooks? “It is time for the American people to demand the Bush Administration and their Wall Street compatriots give us back our local banks, our stability, and our futures by doing what any sensible administration would do: (1) engage FDIC's net worth certificate program NOW; (2) order SEC to mark real estate assets to true value, not an arbitrary index; (3) order mortgage workouts now through the FDIC, and divert the $350 billion remaining at Treasury to this purpose, rather than using our tax money to buy bad loans which is a bad idea by any measure. Treasury has NO experience in housing real estate anyway and their regrettable experience in handling our national debt should make us all shudder.”
10.23.2008	“The visitor center stands as a testament to our efforts to imbed ‘green’ energy in every facility possible,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This beautiful building is a symbol of our commitment to achieving energy independence for the future and building our community forward.” The Ottawa visitor center received the Energy Department’s award for Sustainable Design of a High Performance Building. The new 13,000-square-foot, three-story facility, which opened to the public last year, replaced an outmoded headquarters building that had been constructed in the 1940s. The new, high-performance structure was designed to be equivalent to a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) silver rating. Congresswoman Kaptur had worked with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to insure funding for the new $2 million visitor center, which features a pond-loop geothermal heating and cooling system. The center incorporates a variety of energy-efficiency techniques: high-efficiency lighting controlled by motion and daylight sensors; radiant floor heating on the main level; point-of-use hot water heaters; high-efficiency tinted windows; super insulation; a reflective metal roof; natural linoleum flooring; carpeting with a high content of recycled material; low light pollution; rainwater gardens and holding ponds; native planting; and, wetlands restoration. The sustainable building design has cut the headquarters building energy intensity in half. The visitor center offers hands-on exhibits about the wildlife and habitats within the 9,000-acre Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge Complex and the Great Black Swamp. The center includes an observation deck, bookstore and a multi-purpose room that can accommodate up to 60 people. Hours of operation are 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.
10.20.2008	“The purchase by the government of bad loans from bad lenders is a bad idea,” said Kaptur, a leading critic of the Wall Street bailout bill that passed Congress in early October. She characterized the Bush Administration’s response to the crisis as “uneven and incomplete” and urged greater focus on the foreclosure crisis, which underlies the economic meltdown. “I view the bursting of the housing bubble as the key element of the meltdown, but nothing is being done to address the rising foreclosure rate in Ohio ,” she said. “If we do nothing about workouts, we will see the problem explode in the last quarter and next year.”The author of the NO-BAILOUT bill in Congress, Kaptur told Bernanke the government should rely on “market discipline” to correct the situation, along with greater involvement by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “The FDIC should use its full emergency powers to protect the credit of those banks, with no exception," she said. "That’s not being done. The most important thing is to inject confidence into the system."Kaptur proposed three additional steps to deal with the crisis: (1) use of net worth certificates rather the purchase of troubled assets by the government; (2) elimination of mark-to-market accounting requirements; and, (3) aggressive actions against wrongdoers who were involved in shoddy underwriting practices and other possibly illegal activity. Kaptur also warned against a growing concentration of power in the nation’s largest banks at the expense of local and community banks. “We are rewarding the irresponsibility of the big banks and imposing new conditions on the community banks that were very much not a part of those making the bad loans," she said.
10.17.2008	The 5.8% increase in the cost-of-living adjustment (COLA), the largest since 1982, will raise the average recipient’s monthly benefit to $1,153 from the current $1,090.“Social Security has protected four generations against poverty in their golden years,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Today, it is a vital lifeline for 57 million Americans.”Kaptur said the COLA will help buffer senior citizens from the harshest effects of the current economic situation, including higher costs for food and fuel.Fifty million Social Security recipients will begin seeing the effects of the COLA in their January checks, Kaptur said. Increased payments to more than seven million Supplement Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries will begin on December 31.Social Security and SSI benefits increase automatically each year based on the rise in the Consumer Price Index from the third quarter of the prior year to the corresponding period of the current year. Other changes that take effect each January are based on the increase in average wages. Based on that increase, the maximum amount of earnings subject to the Social Security tax (taxable maximum) will increase to $106,800 from $102,000 in 2009.
10.17.2008	The 5.8% cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is the largest since 1982 and will raise the average recipient’s monthly benefit to $1,153 from the current $1,090. “Social Security has protected four generations against poverty in their golden years,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Today, it is a vital lifeline for 57 million Americans.” Kaptur said the COLA will help seniors cope with some of the harsher effects of the current economic situation, including higher costs for food and fuel. Fifty million Social Security recipients will begin seeing the effects of the COLA in their January checks, Kaptur said. Increased payments to more than seven million Supplement Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries will begin on December 31. Social Security and SSI benefits increase automatically each year based on the rise in the Consumer Price Index from the third quarter of the prior year to the corresponding period of the current year. Another change that will take effect in January will increase the maximum amount of earnings subject to the Social Security tax to $106,800 from the current taxable minimum of $102,000.
10.14.2008	U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) said as many as 32,000 constituents have not yet filed 2007 returns. Most of the non-filers are taxpayers who received six-month extensions beyond the April 15 tax deadline, but as many as 9,000 are Social Security recipients, disabled veterans, and lower-income people who are not otherwise required to file returns. “File a return by tomorrow if you want an economic stimulus payment this year,” Kaptur said this morning. “Everyone who is entitled to a stimulus check must file a return. Especially during these difficult economic times, senior citizens or disabled veterans need this payment to help make ends meet.” For eligible individuals, the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 provided for stimulus payments of up to $600 ($1,200 for married couples) or the amount of the taxpayer’s 2007 net income tax liability, whichever is less. There also is a $300 payment for each qualifying child. There is an income phase-out, starting at adjusted gross income amounts of $75,000 for single taxpayers and $150,000 for married taxpayers. People with no tax liability and no requirement to file a tax return could qualify for up to $300 ($600 for married couples) plus the $300 payment for each qualifying child. However, people in this situation must have at least $3,000 in qualifying income from earned income, nontaxable combat pay as well as certain benefits from Social Security, Veterans Affairs (VA) and Railroad Retirement. Qualifying income from Social Security includes retirement, disability and survivor benefits. Supplemental Security Income is not a qualifying income. Qualifying income from VA includes disability compensation, disability pension and survivor benefits. Qualifying Railroad Retirement Board benefits include the Social Security equivalent portion of Tier I benefits. Also, those who are dependents or eligible to be dependents on another’s tax return are not eligible. People must have a valid Social Security Number unless their spouse is a member of the military. The IRS will not disburse any stimulus payments after December 31. However, people who may be eligible for a payment can claim a credit in 2009 by filing a 2008 income tax return. It is estimated that through August the IRS had issued more than $200 million in stimulus payments to constituents in Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District.
10.10.2008	“Sending more than $1 billion dollars a day to Communist China is unacceptable,” said U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “President Bush continues to encourage one-sided, reckless trade with China that promotes human rights abuses, abhorrent working conditions, and abusive economic practices. Americans deserve better than a race to the bottom.” The U.S. topped last year’s China deficit figure in August by more than $2 billion. In all of 2007, the U.S. imported more goods from China than from any other country, leading to a deficit of $256.2 billion dollars. Kaptur is the sponsor of H.R. 1958 to withdraw permanent normal trade relations treatment, formerly referred to as “most-favored nation status,” from China. She is also the sponsor of H.R. 169, the Balancing Trade Act, which would require the President to reexamine trade relationships with countries with whom the U.S. has a $10 billion deficit for more than three consecutive years.
10.09.2008	Pointing to the appointment of Neel Kashkari as interim director of the bailout plan, Kaptur said she is concerned that a former Goldman Sachs executive has been given such authority considering the firm’s track record. “The American people deserve to know how much taxpayer money Kashkari’s former employer, Goldman Sachs, will receive in the bailout and how many of Goldman’s former staffers will be involved,” she said. “The American people are watching the Bush Administration’s every move, and this appointment raises questions about insider access and self dealing.” Kaptur said that Goldman Sachs, under then chief executive officer Hank Paulson, received an exemption from the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2004 to engage in “unregulated, risky and highly leveraged investments. They turn out badly, and now the taxpayers are on the hook to pay Paulson’s former firm enormous fees and massive capital to make it right for them. I wonder if anyone at Goldman Sachs is taking any kind of a pay cut.” Paulson is now the Treasury Secretary. As part of here nine-point plan to address the economic emergency, Congresswoman Kaptur has called for creation of a special prosecutor in the U.S. Justice Department to investigate financial crimes, including fraud, misrepresentation of asset value, insider trading and any other criminal activity related to the current crisis. The special prosecutor should have a staff of at least 500, including the attorneys and accountants necessary to conduct investigations, undertake forensic accounting and prosecute suspected wrongdoers. Recovery of assets that were either fraudulently or illegally obtained by individuals, board members or institutions involved in criminal activity should be required retroactive to 1990.
10.08.2008	The Federal Deposit Insurance Commission (FDIC), an independent agency of the federal government, recently raised its coverage limits to $250,000, including: Single accounts (owned by one person); $250,00 per person Joint accounts (two or more persons); $250,000 per co-owner Individual Retirement Accounts; $250,000 per owner Trust accounts; $250,000 per owner per beneficiary (subject to certain limitations and requirements); Corporations, partnerships or unincorporated associations: $250,000 per entity Note: These deposit insurance coverage limits refer to the total of all deposits that an account holder (or account holders) has at each FDIC-insured bank. FDIC insurance covers funds in deposit accounts, including checking and savings accounts, money market deposit accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs). FDIC insurance does not, however, cover other financial products and services that insured banks may offer, such as stocks, bonds, mutual fund shares, life insurance policies, annuities or municipal securities. There is no need for depositors to apply for FDIC insurance or even to request it. Coverage is automatic. FDIC protects against the loss of insured deposits in the event that an FDIC-insured bank or savings association fails. FDIC insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. Since the agency was established, no depositor has ever lost even one cent of FDIC-insured funds. If you have questions about FDIC insurance, visit www.myFDICinsurance.gov , call toll-free 1-877-ASK-FDIC, or ask a representative at your bank.
10.08.2008	The Toledo-based Northwest Ohio Development Agency (NODA) has received a federal award of $35,313 to provide housing counseling service, according to Representative Marcy Kaptur. NODA, which provides financial support and advice to people and organizations in Lucas County, will us the funds for homeownership counseling, including foreclosure prevention. “It is crucial that families have the best information available as they buy a home or try to avoid foreclosure,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The first step for any local family facing foreclosure to is get counseling.” Counseling agencies such as NODA help homebuyers and homeowners realistically evaluate their readiness for a home purchase, understand their financing and down payment options, and nagivate what can be an extremely confusing and difficult process. Grantees also help combat predatory lending by helping unwary borrowers avoid unreasonably high interest rates, inflated appraisals, unaffordable repayment terms, and other conditions that can result in a loss of equity, increased debt, default, and even foreclosure. Likewise, foreclosure prevention counseling helps homeowners facing delinquency or default employ strategies, including expense reduction, negotiation with lenders and loan servicers, and loss mitigation. With foreclosures on the rise nationwide, these services are more important than ever. HUD awards annual grants under the housing counseling program through a competitive process. Organizations that apply for grants must be HUD-approved and are subject to biennial performance reviews to maintain their HUD-approved status.
10.08.2008	NODA, which provides financial support and advice to people and organizations in Lucas County, will us the funds for homeownership counseling, including foreclosure prevention. “It is crucial that families have the best information available as they buy a home or try to avoid foreclosure,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The first step for any local family facing foreclosure to is get counseling.” Counseling agencies such as NODA help homebuyers and homeowners realistically evaluate their readiness for a home purchase, understand their financing and down payment options, and nagivate what can be an extremely confusing and difficult process. Grantees also help combat predatory lending by helping unwary borrowers avoid unreasonably high interest rates, inflated appraisals, unaffordable repayment terms, and other conditions that can result in a loss of equity, increased debt, default, and even foreclosure. Likewise, foreclosure prevention counseling helps homeowners facing delinquency or default employ strategies, including expense reduction, negotiation with lenders and loan servicers, and loss mitigation. With foreclosures on the rise nationwide, these services are more important than ever. HUD awards annual grants under the housing counseling program through a competitive process. Organizations that apply for grants must be HUD-approved and are subject to biennial performance reviews to maintain their HUD-approved status.
10.07.2008	Are you concerned about your finances? If you are facing foreclosure, nervous about being able to heat your home this winter, or are worried about the state of your finances, please call my office for assistance. As your liaison to the federal government, we can put you in touch with people who can counsel you with regards to your mortgage or house payments, help you access your IRS stimulus payment, find assistance for high energy costs or navigate complicated situations with the federal government (Medicare, Social Security, Veterans Administration, etc.). With an uncertain economic landscape, many people, especially in our area of Ohio, are facing troubling problems, like foreclosure, with which the government or local agencies can help. If you are unsure or distressed about mortgage payments, or facing other dire circumstances, please give me a call and let us know what the problem is. Please call the Toledo office at 419-259-7500 or 800-964-4699. Call us at 419-259-7500 or 800-964-4699.
10.01.2008	"We want a good bill, not a fast bill. We want a bill that will really work," said Kaptur, the senior-most woman in the House. A summary of the "No BAILOUTS Act" follows. Watch the video of the press conference. No BAILOUTS Act Bringing Accounting, Increased Liquidity, Oversight and Upholding Taxpayer Security 1) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to require an economic value standard to measure the capital of financial institutions. This bill will require SEC to implement a rule to suspend the application of fair value accounting standards to financial institutions, which marks assets to the market value, no matter the conditions of the market. When no meaningful market exists, as is the current market for mortgage backed securities, this standard requires institutions to value assets at fire-sale prices. This creates a capital shortfall on paper. Using the economic value standard as bank examines have traditionally done will immediately correct the capital shortfalls experienced by many institutions. 2) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restricting naked short sells permanently This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks naked selling, selling a stock short without first borrowing the shares or ensuring the shares can be borrowed. Such practices many times harm the companies represented in the sales and hurt their efforts to raise capital. There is no economic value produced by naked short sales, but significant negative effects. 3) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restore the up-tick rule permanently. This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks short sales without an up-tick in the market. On September 19, 2008, the SEC approved a temporary pause of short selling in financial companies "to protect the integrity and quality of the securities market and strengthen investor confidence." This rule prevents market crashes brought on by irrational short term market behavior. 4) "Net Worth Certificate Program" This bill will require FDIC to implement a net worth certificate program. The FDIC would determine banks with short-term capital needs and the ability to financially recover in the foreseeable future. For those entities that qualify, the FDIC should purchase net worth certificates in these institutions. In exchange, these institutions issue promissory notes to repay the FDIC, counting the amount "borrowed" as capital on their balance sheets. This exchange provides short term capital, with not cash outlay. Interest rates on the certificates and the FDIC notes should be identical so no subsidy is necessary. Participating banks must be subject to strict oversight by the FDIC including oversight of top executive compensation and if necessary the removal of poor management. Financial records and business plans should be subject to scrutiny while participating in the program. In 1982, Congress approved a program, known as the Net Worth Certificate Program, that allowed banks and thrifts to apply for immediate capital assistance. From 1982 to 1993, banks with total assets of $40 billion participated in the program. The majority of these banks, 75%, required no further assistance beyond the certificate program. 5) Increase the FDIC Insurance limit from $100,000 to $250,000. The bill will require the FDIC raise its limit to provide depositors confidence that their money is safe and help eliminate runs on banks which are destabilizing to the industry.
09.30.2008	House Information Resources issued the following status report at 6:00 pm September 28: In order to ensure that constituents can access and view the House.gov website and all websites within the domain, including those of all Members and Committees, House computer engineers have had to implement limits on the unprecedented amount of emails flowing into the system via the Write Your Rep application at this time. During hours of peak demand, some constituents attempting to use the system may receive a message asking them to try back at a later time, when demand is not so extreme. This measure has become temporarily necessary to ensure that Congressional websites are not completely disabled by the millions of emails flowing into the system. Engineers are working diligently to accommodate this enormous traffic flow and we appreciate your patience in this matter. If you need assistance or wish to share your opinion with the Congresswoman, do not hesitate to contact us at the following numbers:Washington Office Tel: (202) 225-4146 Fax: (202) 225-7711 Ohio Office Tel: (800)964-4699 or (419) 259-7500 Fax: (419) 255-9623 Thank you for your patience.
09.30.2008	Kaptur, the senior woman in the House, addressed the issue in remarks on the House floor on Sunday evening. She disputed the contention by President Bush that America is facing the worst financial crisis in its history and accused the White House of using fear to pressure Congress into bailing out Wall Street. She also said Congress should approve no funding for a bailout until it establishes an economic crimes unit to investigate criminal activity that created the current situation. “Taking a trillion dollars of taxpayer money and buying bushels of unknown and unvalued paper is not smart,” Kaptur said. “It will delay resolution of that housing crisis. In fact, this bill actually asks taxpayers to buy a garbage truckload of worthless paper, everything from subprime auto loans, to foreign bank loans, to hedge fund paper, to credit swaps. Every reckless Wall Street deal thought up these past several years they want to dump on us. We say: No.” Kaptur said the current turmoil constitutes “a credit crisis, not a liquidity crisis,” and the bailout bill does not address it. “The housing bubble that burst is at the heart of our dilemma. Until Main Street housing foreclosures are remedied, the situation will not improve.” Kaptur said, “We need the right deal, not a fast deal. The White House is counting on fear to propel this Congress into hasty and inappropriate action on a Wall Street bailout that is not in the interest of our Republic. There is a better way. In fact, it is as likely the expenditure of $700 billion will actually stand in the way of the most effective means to remedy the economic challenges facing us.” Kaptur said the market problems of the 1980s, when 3,000 banks failed and interest rates hit 21 percent, posed a greater threat to the economy than the current crisis. Nonetheless, she said, “the economic instability was resolved in the financial system in a much more disciplined and rigorous way than taxpayers printing money for Wall Street.” She said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation response dealt with the earlier crisis effectively with no cash changing hands. FDIC, she said, resolved “thousands of problem situations” issued net worth certificates to get the nation through the credit shortage. The agency also regulated transactions with banks with subordinated debentures and promissory notes, assumed power over executive salaries and controlled dividends to restore health and rigor to the market. “The FDIC also adopted a contingency plan to nationalize all institutions in the event it was necessary. The cost of the entire enterprise was $1.8 billion, resolving over $100 billion in problem institutions from the FDIC insurance fund, paid for by the banks, not the taxpayers. In other words, the market was used to heal the market, not set up a big government bureaucracy at the U.S. Treasury, run and overseen by the very reckless people who caused these problems in the first place,” she said. Kaptur said the bailout bill fails to reform the Securities and Exchange Commission, which “more than any other regulatory body,” has caused the current problem “by its false accounting, overinflated leverage ratios and (destruction of ) fair value accounting.” Finally, she said, Congress should create and fund an independent Emergency Financial Crimes Unit “to investigate the malfeasance, securities fraud, false accounting, and insider trading that were the root causes of this extravagance.”
09.25.2008	“We have fought long and hard for passage of this appropriation for improvements at Camp Perry,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of the defense appropriations subcommittee. The appropriation for Camp Perry will upgrade the Army National Guard housing stock by replacing a number of World War II-era hutmets with a modern 80-bed barracks. “This is a significant commitment, considering Camp Perry’s increasing importance as a training facility,” Kaptur said. Meanwhile, she noted, the Department of Veterans Affairs expends approximately $2.9 billion a year serving the 958,000 veterans who live in Ohio. “VA health care facilities handle more than 2.5 million admissions and outpatient visits in Ohio annually,” Kaptur said. VA services in Ohio include: Medical and construction programs totaling $1.4 billion; Veterans compensation and pension programs totaling $974 million; Disability compensation or pension payments to more than 100,000 Ohio veterans; Guarantees of VA home loans valued at $2 billion for 63,000 Ohio veterans; GI Bill benefits for more than 14,000 veterans; and Life insurance for 54,000 veterans. The Department of Veterans Affairs operates 125 national military cemeteries, including the Western Reserve National Cemetery in Rittman, Ohio and the Great Lakes National Cemetery in Holly, Michigan.
09.22.2008	Congress must not adjourn until it addresses this situation. The House and Senate should commit to staying in session until we get this right for the American public. There should be no talk about going home to campaign until we straighten out this mess. Due Diligence: we must protect the hard-earned assets of the American public. My position is that Congress should make it a priority to protect the assets of the American people. We should not be stampeded into taking rash action six weeks before an election. We must insist on due diligence at every step of the process. Thus, we should not approve any bailout without insisting on reforms. This is especially important to those of us who opposed the various pieces of legislation that created this irresponsible, high-risk behavior in the financial markets. Prudence: No reforms = no money for the bailout. I do not believe that Congress should bail out large financial institutions on Wall Street, especially without adequate protection for the average person. We need to help Main Street, not just Wall Street. Help families fight off foreclosure. Also, the financial crisis was precipitated by an avalanche of foreclosures. Ohio and Michigan have been especially hard hit by the decline in real estate values. Accordingly, any financial recovery plan must take into account the situations of thousands of families who are in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. Wrongdoers must be held responsible. I do not believe that the people who helped bring about this situation should be allowed to profit from it. Therefore, I will insist on measures that hold responsible anyone whose actions helped bring us to this extraordinary moment where the American people are being called upon to save the financial system.
09.17.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur recently received the coveted “Golden Triangle” award from the National Farmers Union for her efforts on behalf of America’s family farmers. Congresswoman Kaptur received the national farm organization’s Golden Triangle Award for the tenth time in her career. The award is the National Farmers Union’s highest legislative honor. It is presented to members of Congress who have demonstrated leadership on important issues for America’s family farmers and rural communities. “We are pleased to honor Congresswoman Kaptur for her commitment to addressing the challenges we face in rural America,” said NFU President Tom Buis. “From the new farm bill to food safety and renewable fuels, she has never backed down. I thank her for her leadership.” NFU selected recipients for their leadership roles on a variety of issues, including support for the 2008 Farm Bill, implementing mandatory country-of-origin labeling, increasing the use and production of fuels from the farm, food safety, support for fair trade (as opposed to so-called “free trade”), and agriculture’s role in addressing climate change. The Golden Triangle Award is based on NFU’s symbol—a triangle with “legislation” and “cooperation” forming the sides, with “education” forming the base.
09.17.2008	In a significant development, the legislation restores the solar and wind energy investment tax credits to spur growth in these important new energy sectors that hold great promise for creating new jobs and diversifying the economy in northern Ohio. Congresswoman Kaptur has been successful in directing more than $50 million in legislative projects to promote alternative energy research and development in the Ninth Congressional District. The U.S. House passed the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 6899) by a vote of 286-139. The bill also requires utility companies to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources--such as solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, wave and tidal--by 2020, saving consumers an estimated $13-18 billion and reducing dangerous carbon emissions. "This important legislation takes us beyond the 'Drill, baby, drill' mentality and puts our country on a realistic track for producing more energy here at home while investing in renewable technologies that will help reduce our dependence on foreign oil. It's the right plan at the right time. It will bring down prices and give us an energy strategy for the future," Kaptur said. The Act would lower gasoline prices immediately by temporarily releasing almost 10 percent of the oil from the government’s stockpile – the Strategic Petroleum Reserve – and replacing it later with heavier, cheaper crude oil. The legislation does not ignore the benefits of exploiting our limited petroleum resources with expanded drilling. It permits offshore drilling in waters between 50 and 100 miles offshore if the state allows leasing off its coastline and prohibits drilling on the Great Lakes. The legislation rolls back $18 billion in tax breaks for the five largest oil companies and requires oil companies to pay royalties already owed to taxpayers. “If Republicans like George Bush and John McCain have their way, we’ll be left with a policy that gives Big Oil more land, more oil, more taxpayer dollars, and all the record profits, while American families and businesses suffer,” Kaptur said. "This is an important step toward change that will help end – not prolong – our addiction to oil. " Last year, Congresswoman Kaptur supported historic energy legislation signed by the President that included provisions to combat oil market manipulation, increase vehicle fuel efficiency to 35 miles per gallon in 2020 – the first Congressional increase in more than three decades – and promote the use of more affordable American biofuels.
09.16.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur received the national farm organization’s Golden Triangle Award for the tenth time in her career. The award is the National Farmers Union’s highest legislative honor. It is presented to members of Congress who have demonstrated leadership on important issues for America’s family farmers and rural communities. “We are pleased to honor Congresswoman Kaptur for her commitment to addressing the challenges we face in rural America,” said NFU President Tom Buis. “From the new farm bill to food safety and renewable fuels, she has never backed down. I thank her for her leadership.” NFU selected recipients for their leadership roles on a variety of issues, including support for the 2008 Farm Bill, implementing mandatory country-of-origin labeling, increasing the use and production of fuels from the farm, food safety, support for fair trade (as opposed to so-called “free trade”), and agriculture’s role in addressing climate change. The Golden Triangle Award is based on NFU’s symbol—a triangle with “legislation” and “cooperation” forming the sides, with “education” forming the base.
09.12.2008	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur estimates more than 2,000 low-income seniors and disabled veterans in the Ninth Congressional District have not yet filed tax returns for the year 2007 and therefore have not received their economic stimulus checks of at least $300 per person.It’s not too late to file your 2007 return and receive a stimulus check. “There’s still time to file and claim your economic stimulus payment,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The IRS will continue processing 2007 tax returns and issuing stimulus checks for much of the year.” She noted that seniors and disabled veterans who normally are not required to file returns, as well as taxpayers who received extensions for filing, should file by October 15 to make sure they receive their stimulus payment before the end of the year. Thousands of other taxpayers in the Ninth District have filed their returns but still have not received their stimulus checks. For help in receiving your stimulus check, please call Congresswoman Kaptur’s office at 419-259-7500. Congresswoman Kaptur said taxpayers face an Oct. 15 deadline to file a 2007 or amend a return they previously filed. In order to receive a stimulus check, a taxpayer must file a Form 1040 or Form 1040A. The taxpayer must have a valid Social Security number and cannot be claimed as a dependent (or be eligible to be claimed as a dependent) on someone else’s tax return. For more information about the stimulus checks, click here .
09.11.2008	The seventh anniversary of the events of September 11, 2001 evokes a wide range of emotions in the hearts of all Americans. We remember the sacrifice of fellow Americans in New York, Washington and Shanksville, Pennsylvania as we admire the courage of thousands of others who responded with the magnanimity that distinguishes our national spirit. On this anniversary, our hearts as Americans are joined with those who lost loved ones on that day. We look back on the horrific events of that day with greater resolve to make our country safer and more secure. We honor our first responders, our soldiers, and our fellow civilians who rose to the occasion on September 11, 2001 and during the days that have followed. We will never forget. May the memory of September 11 continue to inspire us to make our nation a greater place, and in doing so turn our sadness into glory.
09.11.2008	Annual Energy Outlook 2007 with Projections to 2030 Release date full report: February 2007 Click here for the full report. Impacts of Increased Access to Oil Resources in the Lower 48 Federal Outer Continental Shelf "The projections in the OCS access case indicate that access to the Pacific, Atlantic, and eastern Gulf regions would not have a significant impact on domestic crude oil and natural gas production or prices before 2030." "Leasing would begin no sooner than 2012, and production would not be expected to start before 2017." "Total domestic production of crude oil from 2012 through 2030 in the OCS access case is projected to be 1.6 percent higher than in the reference case, and 3 percent higher in 2030 alone, at 5.6 million barrels per day. For the lower 48 OCS, annual crude oil production in 2030 is projected to be 7 percent higher-2.4 million barrels per day in the OCS access case compared with 2.2 million barrels per day in the reference case (Figure 20)." "Because oil prices are determined on the international market, however, any impact on average wellhead prices is expected to be insignificant." Read more on Marcy's energy policy.
09.11.2008	“The continued deterioration of our trading position in the world economy is yet one more warning sign during a turbulent economic time,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who has been a consistent proponent of fair trade laws and fierce opponent of failed trade deals such as NAFTA. The U.S. goods and services deficit climbed to $62.2 billion in July, an increase of 5.7 percent over the $58.8 billion figure reported in June. The July deficit was the largest one-month total thus far in 2008. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the U.S. trade deficit in petroleum reached $43.4 billion in July, a new record. The U.S. bill for foreign oil totaled $51.4 billion. The other culprit in the deteriorating trade picture was the continued decline of U.S. manufacturing. Despite a weak dollar, sales of U.S. made manufactured goods in other nations fell to $80.2 billion and the manufacturing trade deficit increased to $53.0 billion. “The monthly deficit in manufacturing and oil is approaching $100 billion,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “That is an unacceptable flow of wealth out of the hands of the American people into the hands of foreign interests. We need a new trade policy in America before it’s too late.”
08.22.2008	Marcy Kaptur announced that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has signed on as a partner at the Clean Alternative Energy Incubator at the University of Toledo. Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, said she has secured a $1.13 million commitment from NASA to help bring certification business to the center. “This exciting partnership represents one more step toward a brighter future for our region,” Kaptur said. “Bringing NASA into our nationally-recognized alternative energy initiative will help make the University of Toledo the center for solar energy research in America.” Congresswoman Kaptur made the announcement at an event held at the incubator, where she was joined by Dr. Lloyd A. Jacobs, president of the University of Toledo, and Lucas County Commissioner Tina Skeldon-Wozniak. “UT is already recognized as one of the leading research institutions in the nation—if not the leading institution—in the field of alternative energy,” Kaptur said. “The partnership between NASA and UT builds on a federal commitment of more than $50 million over the past eight years and creates a synergy that holds out the promise of many new, good-paying jobs in our region. “We anticipate the Northwest Ohio-Southeast Michigan corridor will be home to the largest research and development effort and manufacturing capacity for photovoltaics in the nation.” Congresswoman Kaptur said NASA is a logical partner for the UT Center due to its long involvement with solar arrays and solar power in general. “As NASA celebrates its 50th anniversary, we welcome its participation in our futuristic endeavors here in Toledo to provide America with a clean, sustainable source of energy,” Kaptur said. “There is no greater priority for America than to reclaim her energy independence. With NASA as a partner, the UT Center for Photovoltaic Innovation and Commercialization (PVIC) will bring that ‘Energy Independence Day’ ever closer and create new opportunities in our region at the same time.” Kaptur said the UT Wright Center is not even two years old, but already is paying dividends for the nation and the community. The NASA partnership will further expand the large-area, thin-film photovoltaic testing and certification laboratory at UT. The goal is to test and certify large-area solar modules and also predict their performance for possible use in future space missions. This is particularly important for the flexible, ultra-lightweight photovoltaic modules that are currently under development by local companies such as Toledo-based Xunlight. As part of the project, UT and NASA (through its Glenn Research Center in Brook Park, Ohio) will collaborate with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado to help meet an increasing national demand for photovoltaic testing and certification at an Ohio Photovoltaics Testing Facility. Congresswoman Kaptur praised Dr. Jacobs for his commitment to alternative energy research. She recognized Dr. Michael J. Heben, who will coordinate the collaboration with NREL along with Dr. Randy Ellingson. Dr. Heben currently has a joint appointment at UT and NREL, but will leave the federal laboratory by the end of the year, as will Dr. Ellingson. Professor Robert Collins will be the principal investigator and director of this project. The co-director will be Dr. Sylvain Marsillac.
08.22.2008	“This exciting partnership represents one more step toward a brighter future for our region,” Kaptur said. “Bringing NASA into our nationally-recognized alternative energy initiative will help make the University of Toledo the center for solar energy research in America.” Congresswoman Kaptur made the announcement at an event held at the incubator, where she was joined by Dr. Lloyd A. Jacobs, president of the University of Toledo, and Lucas County Commissioner Tina Skeldon-Wozniak. “UT is already recognized as one of the leading research institutions in the nation—if not the leading institution—in the field of alternative energy,” Kaptur said. “The partnership between NASA and UT builds on a federal commitment of more than $50 million over the past eight years and creates a synergy that holds out the promise of many new, good-paying jobs in our region. “We anticipate the Northwest Ohio-Southeast Michigan corridor will be home to the largest research and development effort and manufacturing capacity for photovoltaics in the nation.” Congresswoman Kaptur said NASA is a logical partner for the UT Center due to its long involvement with solar arrays and solar power in general. “As NASA celebrates its 50th anniversary, we welcome its participation in our futuristic endeavors here in Toledo to provide America with a clean, sustainable source of energy,” Kaptur said. “There is no greater priority for America than to reclaim her energy independence. With NASA as a partner, the UT Center for Photovoltaic Innovation and Commercialization (PVIC) will bring that ‘Energy Independence Day’ ever closer and create new opportunities in our region at the same time.” Kaptur said the UT Wright Center is not even two years old, but already is paying dividends for the nation and the community. The NASA partnership will further expand the large-area, thin-film photovoltaic testing and certification laboratory at UT. The goal is to test and certify large-area solar modules and also predict their performance for possible use in future space missions. This is particularly important for the flexible, ultra-lightweight photovoltaic modules that are currently under development by local companies such as Toledo-based Xunlight. As part of the project, UT and NASA (through its Glenn Research Center in Brook Park, Ohio) will collaborate with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado to help meet an increasing national demand for photovoltaic testing and certification at an Ohio Photovoltaics Testing Facility. Congresswoman Kaptur praised Dr. Jacobs for his commitment to alternative energy research. She recognized Dr. Michael J. Heben, who will coordinate the collaboration with NREL along with Dr. Randy Ellingson. Dr. Heben currently has a joint appointment at UT and NREL, but will leave the federal laboratory by the end of the year, as will Dr. Ellingson. Professor Robert Collins will be the principal investigator and director of this project. The co-director will be Dr. Sylvain Marsillac.
08.20.2008	It is difficult to write this notice because this announcement seems not possible. Stephanie's energy, drive, and enthusiasm accompanied her in all her life's pursuits. As the first African American woman to represent Ohio in the U.S. House of Representatives, she made history every day. Her boundless spirit and involvements were exceptional--as a devoted spouse, mother of Mervyn, with family, church and sorority, an exceptional lawyer, and as a Congresswoman with unending calls upon her time. Her smile and supportive manner were shared with all of us, time and again. She gave almost every ounce of her strength to bettering the condition and politics of our nation, and her lifelong home of the City of Cleveland. We wish to extend deepest sympathy to her beloved son, Mervyn, for whom she lived, her loving extended family, her church family, and her countless friends and colleagues. Please know that our thoughts and our prayers go out to Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, her family, her staff and her constituents at this most difficult time.
08.20.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur participated in a signing ceremony on Tuesday to formalize a collaboration agreement among several agencies to develop an intermodal shipping facility in the Toledo area. The goal is to position Toledo as a strategic partner in the “Atlantic Gateway” project, which seeks to take advantage of the “container revolution” that has reshaped international commerce. The Gateway envisions shipping goods, either through the St. Lawrence Seaway or along rail corridors, to and from a deepwater port that is under construction in the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia. “We want to take advantage of our geographic position at the fulcrum of the Great Lakes shipping lanes,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “The congestion at other ports along the East and West coasts gives us an opportunity here in the nation’s heartland to create many new, good-paying jobs as a manufacturing and agricultural center and also as a distribution hub. "Waterborne transportation is a very efficient way to transport grain and manufactured goods, especially with rising fuel prices.” Local officials will conduct a market analysis—including identification of major exporters and importers—and also assess infrastructure improvements that might be required to assure cost-effective handling of cargo at maritime and rail facilities associated with the Port of Toledo. The agreement was signed by Congresswoman Kaptur, University of Toledo President Lloyd Jacobs, Midwest Terminals of Toledo President Alex Johnson, Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority Interim President Paul Toth, Jr., and Melford International Terminal President Paul Martin. Mr. Martin’s firm is spearheading the Atlantic Gateway deepwater port project in Nova Scotia.
08.20.2008	The goal is to position Toledo as a strategic partner in the “Atlantic Gateway” project, which seeks to take advantage of the “container revolution” that has reshaped international commerce. The Gateway envisions shipping goods, either through the St. Lawrence Seaway or along rail corridors, to and from a deepwater port that is under construction in the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia. “We want to take advantage of our geographic position at the fulcrum of the Great Lakes shipping lanes,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “The congestion at other ports along the East and West coasts gives us an opportunity here in the nation’s heartland to create many new, good-paying jobs as a manufacturing and agricultural center and also as a distribution hub. "Waterborne transportation is a very efficient way to transport grain and manufactured goods, especially with rising fuel prices.” Local officials will conduct a market analysis—including identification of major exporters and importers—and also assess infrastructure improvements that might be required to assure cost-effective handling of cargo at maritime and rail facilities associated with the Port of Toledo. The agreement was signed by Congresswoman Kaptur, University of Toledo President Lloyd Jacobs, Midwest Terminals of Toledo President Alex Johnson, Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority Interim President Paul Toth, Jr., and Melford International Terminal President Paul Martin. Mr. Martin’s firm is spearheading the Atlantic Gateway deepwater port project in Nova Scotia.
08.14.2008	Facts about drilling:81% of estimated oil and gas resources on federal lands both onshore and offshore in the Outer Continental Shelf are available for development or will be accessible pending the completion of land-use planning or environmental reviews. 68 million acres of federal lands both onshore and underlying federal waters offshore in the Outer Continental Shelf are currently being held by oil and gas companies with no production occurring on these leases. Between 1999 and 2007, the number of drilling permits issued for development of public lands increased by more than 361%, yet gasoline prices have also risen dramatically contradicting the argument that more drilling means lower gasoline prices. (See below) Read about my plan for energy independence here.
08.13.2008	Once again the world condemns the action only with words, leaving the defenders of liberty to their own devices. Who believes Russia’s stated reason for attacking the sovereign nation of Georgia? Vladimir Putin’s rationale for the attack—ethnic affinity for separatists in a Georgian region known as South Ossetia—is no more believable than George Bush’s claim of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The common denominator (and perhaps the real reason): oil. The Russian bear did not simply wake from 17 years of hibernation and decide to maul tiny Georgia. Georgia’s strategic position adjacent to oil-rich Azerbaijan likely drove the decision to invade. Putin wants to deny Azeri oil a southern route that is beyond Russia’s control. And with Poland and Hungary already members of NATO, Putin realized he must not allow Georgia to align with the West. Also, the proposed NATO missile defense in Poland—too fast and too soon—might have been a tipping point for Putin as well. Feeling threatened on the west, he might have elected to move south instead. And what better time to invade than with the United States bogged down in Iraq and losing ground in Afghanistan? Blocked in one direction, Putin took advantage of America’s myopic military focus on two fitful wars. The United States now has 34,000 troops in Afghanistan, with the total growing weekly, and will face the same fierce resistance that proved to be the undoing for one of Putin’s predecessors, Leonid Brezhnev, and triggered the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Putin knows well the brutal will of the Afghan resistance. He also knows the price America will inevitably pay in a nation that at one time respected U.S. intentions but now increasingly views it as an unwelcome enemy. And what better time to terrorize a tiny nation than during the Olympic Games in China, when the entire world is perfecting the art of looking the other way in the face of totalitarian repression? While Putin astutely and cynically picked the opportune moment to crush the Rose Revolution in Georgia, President Bush is all but abandoning one of America’s strongest allies, a nation that committed 2,000 troops to his escapade in Iraq. The real issue here, of course, is strategic positioning, control of a vital asset, and the power that goes with it. As America becomes energy weak, with only two percent of the world’s remaining oil reserves, Russia rises with hers. America’s goal should be domestic development of new energy systems to restore energy independence, not foreign adventurism. Yet, incredibly, this Administration extended our military halfway around the world while making our nation ever more dependent on foreign energy supplies. The Bush Administration has also failed miserably on the diplomatic front. In the first Persian Gulf War, the world community, at the behest of the United States, stood united to drive Iraq out of the sovereign territory of Kuwait. The world community now has no such inclination to assist in Iraq as the United States has lost standing among nations as an aggressor itself. Pre-emptive strikes do have consequences, not the least of which is setting an example that other powers then copycat. And now Russia has. Meanwhile, many former Soviet republics hang out there: Azerbaijan has energy resources, Moldova has agricultural assets, and Ukraine is also an oil transit route to Western Europe, along with key ports along the Black Sea, such as Sevastopol. What better time, indeed, for Russia to shore up its resource-rich, southern underbelly? Once again U.S. intelligence proved less than up to the task of forewarning, leaving one of our best friends exposed to a foreign invasion. So now, very sadly, the great powers have led the world into Oil Wars rather than a new energy age for a sustainable earth. Click below for a bigger map of oil pipelines in the region, courtesty of the Dept. of Energy. Click below for more information (starting in the Transit Energy section) on oil pipelines going through Georgia at the Dept. of Energy.
08.13.2008	Once again the world watches in horror as Russian tanks trample over freedom, this time in Georgia. As in Hungary in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1978, Russia has brutally attacked a small neighbor for daring to act independently. Once again the world condemns the action only with words, leaving the defenders of liberty to their own devices. Who believes Russia’s stated reason for attacking the sovereign nation of Georgia? Vladimir Putin’s rationale for the attack—ethnic affinity for separatists in a Georgian region known as South Ossetia—is no more believable than George Bush’s claim of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The common denominator (and perhaps the real reason): oil. The Russian bear did not simply wake from 17 years of hibernation and decide to maul tiny Georgia. Georgia’s strategic position adjacent to oil-rich Azerbaijan likely drove the decision to invade. Putin wants to deny Azeri oil a southern route that is beyond Russia’s control. And with Poland and Hungary already members of NATO, Putin realized he must not allow Georgia to align with the West. Also, the proposed NATO missile defense in Poland—too fast and too soon—might have been a tipping point for Putin as well. Feeling threatened on the west, he might have elected to move south instead. And what better time to invade than with the United States bogged down in Iraq and losing ground in Afghanistan? Blocked in one direction, Putin took advantage of America’s myopic military focus on two fitful wars. The United States now has 34,000 troops in Afghanistan, with the total growing weekly, and will face the same fierce resistance that proved to be the undoing for one of Putin’s predecessors, Leonid Brezhnev, and triggered the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Putin knows well the brutal will of the Afghan resistance. He also knows the price America will inevitably pay in a nation that at one time respected U.S. intentions but now increasingly views it as an unwelcome enemy. And what better time to terrorize a tiny nation than during the Olympic Games in China, when the entire world is perfecting the art of looking the other way in the face of totalitarian repression? While Putin astutely and cynically picked the opportune moment to crush the Rose Revolution in Georgia, President Bush is all but abandoning one of America’s strongest allies, a nation that committed 2,000 troops to his escapade in Iraq. The real issue here, of course, is strategic positioning, control of a vital asset, and the power that goes with it. As America becomes energy weak, with only two percent of the world’s remaining oil reserves, Russia rises with hers. America’s goal should be domestic development of new energy systems to restore energy independence, not foreign adventurism. Yet, incredibly, this Administration extended our military halfway around the world while making our nation ever more dependent on foreign energy supplies. The Bush Administration has also failed miserably on the diplomatic front. In the first Persian Gulf War, the world community, at the behest of the United States, stood united to drive Iraq out of the sovereign territory of Kuwait. The world community now has no such inclination to assist in Iraq as the United States has lost standing among nations as an aggressor itself. Pre-emptive strikes do have consequences, not the least of which is setting an example that other powers then copycat. And now Russia has. Meanwhile, many former Soviet republics hang out there: Azerbaijan has energy resources, Moldova has agricultural assets, and Ukraine is also an oil transit route to Western Europe, along with key ports along the Black Sea, such as Sevastopol. What better time, indeed, for Russia to shore up its resource-rich, southern underbelly? Once again U.S. intelligence proved less than up to the task of forewarning, leaving one of our best friends exposed to a foreign invasion. So now, very sadly, the great powers have led the world into Oil Wars rather than a new energy age for a sustainable earth. Click below for a bigger map of oil pipelines in the region, courtesty of the Dept. of Energy. Click below for more information (starting in the Transit Energy section) on oil pipelines going through Georgia at the Dept. of Energy.
08.11.2008	A group of three federal agencies has presented a plan for minimizing the impacts of freshwater algal blooms, some of which have harmed the Lake Erie ecosystem. A copy of the report is available here. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Science and Technology Council report, which was mandated by Congress in 2004, also sets forth priorities in dealing with algal blooms. During the mid- to late-1960s, seasonal algal blooms occurred throughout Lake Erie’s western basin. Mats of blue-green algae washed ashore, fouling beaches. Although blooms occurred annually in the 1970s, the number and intensity decreased as phosphorus levels declined. By the early 1980s, massive blooms had ceased. After the invasion of the zebra mussels, however, large algal blooms were again reported. A massive bloom in 1995 resembled green paint and extended over the entire surface of the western basin. During the first decade of this century, blooms of the toxic algae, Microcystis, have been commonly reported, including a massive bloom persisted for almost a month in August 2003. Beaches, recreational boating and sportfishing have been negatively impacted. The Microcystis bloom of 2003, perhaps the most severe in Lake Erie's recent history, was only the latest in a trend towards increasing frequency of Microcystis blooms in the last decade. Microcystis blooms are of particular concern. Microcystis is poor food for the tiny grazing crustaceans (zooplankton) that are, in turn, important food for larval fish. Microcystis also often contains a potent toxin called microcystin that when ingested by animals may damage the liver. Moreover, most municipalities along the lakeshore obtain drinking water from Lake Erie. Water treatment procedures seem to be effective in removing the toxin; to date, no toxin has been reported in drinking water supplies. For more information about algal blooms in the western basin, click here.
08.05.2008	Standing against a backdrop of a solar panel array at the 180th Fighter Wing, Kaptur said the initiative “to capture the power of the sun from the blue yonder and transmit it back to the base electrical system” represents a pioneering effort to make U.S. military bases energy independent. Current construction efforts will install the first one third of a field array that ultimately will produce one megawatt of power, or half the base energy supply. Congresswoman Kaptur said the hardware for the array is 96 percent domestic content, most of it locally procured, with local firms and skilled trades performing the installation. “The most significant strategic challenge America faces is moving our nation and our nation’s defense to an energy independent posture,” said Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Defense subcommittee. “Imported energy is the chief strategic vulnerability.” Kaptur said the 180th Fighter Wing base “serves as a 21st Century prototype, not just for Ohio, but for the entire nation. Our region, because of our advanced energy technologies, will help lead America to a new day when energy freedom will be restored. Others may talk about restoring America’s energy independence. Here in northern Ohio, we are already leading America forward.” She said The Economist has identified Toledo as one of the three most significant solar energy research communities in the world. “This base clearly captures that lead in a way that the public will come to understand,” Kaptur said. The solar field concept, she said, provides a more cost effective technology than other applications, such as a project underway at Creech Air Force Base in Nevada. From her position on the defense subcommittee, Kaptur directed a $7.1 million new energy initiative that includes $5.1 million at the 180th and $2 million at Ottawa County’s Camp Perry. The Camp Perry initiative is focused on using wind power as an alternative energy source. She said the initiatives at the 180th and at Camp Perry complement her efforts to help build an alternative energy industry in Northern Ohio around the hub of the Center for Solar Energy and Hydrogen at the University of Toledo. “We’re creating the economy of the future thanks to a robust federal commitment, combined with local participation from many quarters,” she said. “There’s a lot at stake here. There is no higher priority than making our nation energy independent and positioning Northern Ohio as a leader in that endeavor. We have shown that can lower our operating costs and improve our security at the same time. We intend to show the rest of America the way to declaring independence from unstable foreign energy sources.” The 180th Air Wing at Toledo Express Airport has been ranked as an Excellent unit in the Air Force ranking system and is slated to receive the Joint Strike Fighter, the successor aircraft to the current F-16’s that are being flown.
08.01.2008	“Today we do what is morally right and economically just. Today we give America's working women a real dose of liberty,” said Kaptur, speaking on the floor in favor of the bill. Congresswoman Kaptur highlighted the historic difficulties faced by working women and recalled how her own mother had been unable to earn minimum wage until the passage of the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act. “In passing this act, I do so in memory of our mother and millions and millions of American women who ask only to be treated fairly in the workplace and earn equal pay for equal work and get that check.” The passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act is part of a long history of equal pay legislation and is broadly supported by numerous women’s rights organizations. Despite a narrowing of the pay gap in recent years there has remained a significant disparity in the salaries of equally qualified men and women. Recently the National Women’s Law Center estimated that the median annual earnings of women ages 15 and older were $31,858, compared to $41,386 for their male counterparts. The gender pay gap has also been shown to impact heavily on minority groups for example figures for 2005 show that an African American woman earned just 64 cents for every dollar earned by a white man, while a Hispanic woman earned only 52 cents on the dollar compared to her white male counterpart.Click to watch her speech:
07.30.2008	A reminder: travelers who enter the United States must present documents denoting citizenship and identity. Oral declaration, once accepted for U.S. and Canadian citizens, is no longer sufficient. Travelers must present documentation from a specified list of acceptable documents when entering the U.S. from land and sea ports of entry. Examples include birth certificates and driver’s licenses. Travelers who do not present one of these documents may be delayed while Customs and Border Protection officers attempt to verify their identity and citizenship. Children ages 18 and under need to present only a birth certificate.
07.30.2008	“The Army recognizes the innovation and unmatched capabilities that ARES has worked hard to demonstrate,” said Kaptur, a senior Member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “I have long worked to bring together Northwest Ohio’s excellent workforce and forward-thinking companies like ARES with the federal government, and this match illustrates our region’s immense potential.” “We have already hired nearly a dozen people directly as a result of the predecessor to this contract and we will continue to expand our capabilities through both manpower and equipment,” said Herbert J. Roder, President of ARES. The contract is for the design, manufacturing, and testing of the Rarefaction Wave Gun (RAVEN), a large-caliber cannon with little recoil. The gun will provide the Army and the Marine Corps with state-of-the-art technology to achieve significant improvements in performance and costs of weapon systems.
07.30.2008	“The communist government of China captures the gold medal for unfair trade practices,” she said, citing a report by the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) that revealed the growing U.S. trade deficit with China has cost our economy 2.3 million jobs between 2001 and 2007, including 366,000 last year alone. “This report illustrates how trade with closed economies isn’t free trade at all. We are sacrificing our values and selling our security to the lowest bidder,” Kaptur said. The report notes that more than half the jobs displaced by trade with China (55.6 percent) were held by the top half of American wage earners. Almost one in three jobs lost to China (31 percent) were held was among workers with a college degree. “The EPI report further destroys the myth that China is sending us only dangerous toys and Christmas ornaments,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “They are steadily ascending the commanding heights of the economic landscape, using every tool at their disposal, from prison labor to currency manipulation to theft of intellectual property to environmental plunder. “When will America wake up to this threat?” Kaptur further cited research by Dr. Charles McMillion, chief economist for MBG Information Services, that while China’s real annual gross domestic product has averaged 10.2 percent since admission to the World Trade Organization in 2002, growth in industrial production has averaged 15.5 percent compared to 1.8 percent in the United States. Despite this hyper-growth, China’s current account surplus has climbed from 1.3% of GDP in 2001 to 12.3% in 2007. As a result, she said, China over the past six years has accumulated global current account surpluses of almost one trillion dollars ($932 billion). “The Chinese have more than enough foreign reserves to buy whatever assets they want on the world market—whether it’s oil in Africa or investment banks in the United States.”
07.24.2008	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, the senior woman in the House of Representatives, did her part for historical preservation this week. Congresswoman Kaptur joined Chairman George Miller of the Education and Labor Committee in a short ceremony to re-hang the portrait of Mary Teresa Norton, who chaired the House Labor Committee from 1937 through 1946. “How appropriate, during this week when a raise in the minimum wage took effect, that we would honor the legacy of this great pioneer of social progress,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Kaptur noted that Chairman Norton, the sponsor of the Fair Labor Standards act, the foundation for today's minimum wage, overtime pay, and child labor laws, “cut a fresh path for women of ordinary means to gain election to Congress.” During the Gingrich Revolution, “the Republican Guard” unceremoniously took Norton’s portrait off the wall and stashed it in a closet in an obscure House office, Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur retrieved the portrait and arranged for its safe keeping until Democrats regained control of the House. “I thank Chairman Miller for putting Chairman Norton’s portrait back where it belongs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur.UPDATE: Read more in The Hill.
07.24.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur joined Chairman George Miller of the Education and Labor Committee in a short ceremony to re-hang the portrait of Mary Teresa Norton, who chaired the House Labor Committee from 1937 through 1946. “How appropriate, during this week when a raise in the minimum wage took effect, that we would honor the legacy of this great pioneer of social progress,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Kaptur noted that Chairman Norton, the sponsor of the Fair Labor Standards act, the foundation for today's minimum wage, overtime pay, and child labor laws, “cut a fresh path for women of ordinary means to gain election to Congress.” During the Gingrich Revolution, “the Republican Guard” unceremoniously took Norton’s portrait off the wall and stashed it in a closet in an obscure House office, Kaptur said. Congresswoman Kaptur retrieved the portrait and arranged for its safe keeping until Democrats regained control of the House. “I thank Chairman Miller for putting Chairman Norton’s portrait back where it belongs,” said Congresswoman Kaptur.UPDATE: Read more in The Hill.
07.22.2008	Due in large part to $25 million in federal funds secured by Congresswoman Kaptur, Brush Engineered Materials, Inc. recently announced a $90 million investment to construct a primary beryllium facility to supply the U.S. Department of Defense. The innovative public-private partnership will result in a new facility to complement Brush Wellman’s existing factory in Elmore. The new facility will result in the creation of at least 25 jobs and retention of approximately 118 jobs. “The workmanship and professionalism at this facility are unmatched,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who noted that the Elmore plant had beat out several other sites for the project. “You play an important role in our national defense,” Kaptur said. “You are absolutely the best that America has to offer.” Brush CEO Richard Hipple said the company will contribute research and development, technology, land and buildings and will provide ongoing operations. The government, meanwhile, will fund engineering, design and equipment. The end result will be a sustainable domestic supply of primary beryllium, which is a strategic material with applications in defense, aerospace and optical scanning markets.
07.22.2008	The innovative public-private partnership will result in a new facility to complement Brush Wellman’s existing factory in Elmore. The new facility will result in the creation of at least 25 jobs and retention of approximately 118 jobs. “The workmanship and professionalism at this facility are unmatched,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who noted that the Elmore plant had beat out several other sites for the project. “You play an important role in our national defense,” Kaptur said. “You are absolutely the best that America has to offer.” Brush CEO Richard Hipple said the company will contribute research and development, technology, land and buildings and will provide ongoing operations. The government, meanwhile, will fund engineering, design and equipment. The end result will be a sustainable domestic supply of primary beryllium, which is a strategic material with applications in defense, aerospace and optical scanning markets.
07.17.2008	What do you think?Read more about my thoughts on energy independence here . Key Points: On Thursday, July 17, 2008, the House will consider H.R. 6515, a bill to promote the responsible domestic production of oil and natural gas, particularly in 20 million acres of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska. There are 68 million acres of federal land already leased by oil companies for energy production now but sitting idle. That’s 75% of leased lands, sitting idle. Oil companies should drill what they have leased—and lease lands already open for drilling first. But instead, President Bush and Congressional Republicans want to make this a fight about our beaches and our threatened wilderness areas, in an apparent attempt to help the oil companies lock up more public lands before he leaves office. The DRILL Act will increase domestic oil supply by: speeding the development of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A) by requiring the Secretary of Interior to offer at least one lease sale annually in the NPR-A. reinstating a ban on the foreign export of Alaskan oil. incorporating the ‘Use It or Lose It’ legislation, which simply requires oil producers to drill on the leases they already have or relinquish them so that another company can produce the oil there. calling on the President to use the powers of his office to facilitate the completion of oil pipelines into the NPR-A and to facilitate the construction of a Alaska natural gas pipeline to the continental United States to move the product to market. · The DRILL Act will provide more oil, because the NPR-A has an estimated 10.6 billion barrels versus the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) with an estimated 10.4 billion barrels and if produced, along with the 68 million acres of already-leased land, U.S. oil production would nearly double. The DRILL Act will increase supply sooner, because: NPR-A is already partially leased and eligible for more leasing right now, unlike the protected ANWR and new coastal areas, and Existing pipelines reach to within 5 miles of NPR-A and the bill would facilitate the construction of Alaskan pipelines to move the oil and gas to market. A New Direction for Energy Independence is a comprehensive strategy to diversify our energy sources to make us more secure, to reduce costs, to create jobs, and to reduce global warming. It would increase the use of solar, wind, geothermal, hydro, American-grown biofuels, and energy-efficient vehicles and building technology; boost American innovation; reward conservation; expedite responsible American drilling; pursue cleaner coal through carbon sequestration; help Americans struggling with high prices; crack down on price gouging and market manipulation; and train a ‘green collar workforce’ to expand our economy. To reduce gas prices immediately, Speaker Pelosi has called on the President to release a small portion of the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to immediately expand supplies. My bill, H.R. 682, would expand the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to include alternative fuels. For more information on this bill, click here. Provisions of the DRILL Act National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A): Mandates that the Bush Administration conduct annual lease sales for 5 years to ensure that the lands in the NPR-A are more rapidly leased for oil and gas production. Even though it has more oil than the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (10.6 billion barrels vs. 10.4 billion barrels) and it has been open to drilling for 26 years, only four lease sales have been conducted since 1999, and only 14% of the NPR-A is leased. The bill will protect sensitive areas, such as around Teshekpuk Lake. Unlike ANWR, which is protected by law from drilling as an environmental preservation area, NPR-A is already designated for oil and gas production so it could occur more rapidly. Based on EIA projections, oil production in ANWR is four to six years behind that of the NPR-A. Extension of Oil and Gas Pipeline to the NPR-A: Requires the Transportation Secretary to facilitate the necessary pipeline infrastructure to bring the producing oil fields in NPR-A online. Right now, available pipelines reach to within 5 miles of NPR-A. The bill requires project labor agreements for both the NPR-A and Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline to provide good paying jobs. Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline: Requires the President to work with the Canadian government, state of Alaska, and oil and gas producers to facilitate construction of the pipeline. While this pipeline was proposed in 1976, and Congress authorized up to $18 billion in loan guarantees for this project in 2004, there has been no progress in building this critical energy infrastructure under the Bush Administration. The planned pipeline would have a daily capacity of 4 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or almost 7% of current U.S. consumption. Not only is this pipeline critical to our energy security -- transporting natural gas from Alaska to America’s Midwest -- it will create good-paying American jobs and would be among the largest construction projects ever undertaken. Banning the export of Alaskan oil: Reinstates the Alaskan export ban that was in place from 1973 to 1995, imposed to ensure that American oil helps the American people. In 2000, about 7% of crude oil production from the Alaskan North Slope was exported to South Korea, Japan, and China. Use It or Lose It: Requires oil companies to diligently develop leases on federal lands (onshore and offshore) that they are already holding. If they cannot certify that they are doing so, they must give up the unused leases — so that someone else can develop them – before obtaining any new leases. Fair Return on Production of Federal Oil and Gas Resources. Directs the Interior Secretary to take steps to ensure that federal oil and gas lease holders are making prompt and accurate royalty payments so that the owners of these lands, the American taxpayers, are fully reimbursed for their use. Preserving American Natural Resources Untouched Beaches and Coastline – President George H.W. Bush put in place a moratorium on certain offshore drilling by executive order in 1990 in response to the catastrophic Exxon-Valdez oil spill. A Congressional ban has existed for more than a quarter century, since 1981. Drilling would expose the nation's shores to oil spills and other threats at a time when coastal resources — fisheries and habitats especially — are already severely stressed. These shorelines and waters are also critical to the multibillion-dollar tourism industry. There have been at least 117 spills in the Outer Continental Shelf waters since 2000. There are 33 million acres of the federal OCS lands that are under lease but are not producing, and nearly 80 percent of offshore oil is already in areas that are open for exploration. Opening new areas to development would save consumers little at the pump -- a decade or two down the road. Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) – Alaska’s ANWR is one of America’s last pristine untouched wilderness areas – home to more than 250 animal species and birds. The potential benefit of drilling oil in ANWR is pennies per gallon a decade or two down the road – a point on which even Senator John McCain agrees.
07.09.2008	The delegation from Toledo included: Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur; Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority President James, H. Hartung; St. Lawrence Seaway Administrator Terry Johnson; Port Authority Chairman William Carroll; University of Toledo President Dr. Lloyd Jacobs; Midwest Terminals of Toledo, Inc. CEO Alex Johnson; International Vice-President of the International Longshoreman’s Association (ILA) John Baker; ILA Canadian Vice-President Pat Murphy; and Hannah Marine Marketing Director Trent Clark.The Atlantic Gateway Initiative is a privately-funded deep-water container terminal and logistics park on the Strait of Canso, Guysborough County, Nova Scotia. The location is linked to Toledo via rail, road and waterways and the Toledo delegation hopes to benefit from the Atlantic Gateway through cargo shipments into the Great Lakes and Toledo via the St. Lawrence Seaway and railway systems. A Toledo-based inland distribution hub, located near the Port of Toledo, would create an area where inbound goods are quickly off-loaded from ships and moved to inland distribution centers for subsequent handling and redistribution within the country. Because the inland port would be in close proximity to the Port of Toledo, the cargo will have efficient access to logistics services and transportation systems such as rail and roadway. The Foreign Trade Zone in the Port of Toledo will also be advantageous for shippers. “Toledo is ideally equipped and geographically positioned to access freight coming out of Melford. We have the necessary intermodal infrastructure of rail, road and waterways all located within one site managed by Midwest Terminals of Toledo,” says James H. Hartung, President of the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority. “It will take the commitment and unified will of the public and private sectors to respond to this opportunity. Though the Melford terminal will not commence operations until late 2010, we must collectively prepare today for what the future holds.” "We must take advantage of our strategic assets, and intermodal transportation offers just such an opportunity for Toledo. It is such a natural partnership with the Atlantic Gateway in Nova Scotia, says Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “Plus, I am working hard in Congress to make critical infrastructure improvements to the St. Lawrence Seaway system, which will make the concept even more competitive.” The Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority, the University of Toledo, Midwest Terminals of Toledo, Inc. and MITI agreed last week to work towards creating a strategic collaboration in support of the Atlantic Gateway Initiative. The collaboration is intended to provide free and open dialog characterized by shared data, insights, and staff resources and, if mutually agreed upon, shared funding for jointly agreed upon initiatives. The goals are to assist in relieving the anticipated capacity saturation occurring at North American east coast maritime gateways and to create a dependable, predictable, cost effective, efficient, safe, and environmentally responsible routing of international maritime cargo entering and exiting the North American marketplace. “I believe the Melford Project has the potential to transform Toledo, indeed the entire Midwest,” says Lloyd A. Jacobs, President of the University of Toledo. “The University of Toledo is pleased to lend the support and expertise of Rich Martinko and our Intermodal Transportation Institute to this exciting project.”Specific, immediate objectives under consideration include performing a detailed market and logistics analysis to identify beneficial cargo owners within a targeted distribution catchments area defined by a single day’s drayage from Toledo. The collaboration also hopes to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the infrastructure, equipment and space needs required to assure cost effective, time sensitive handling of cargos at maritime and rail facilities associated with the Port of Toledo. In addition to these two immediate objectives, the collaboration will also work to facilitate the incorporation of a feeder service for the Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Seaway System and also strive to unite the Great Lakes maritime industry in support of this service expansion initiative. “We have the facilities, the personnel, the land and the intermodal assets right here. Our rich maritime history and robust waterfront is an intermodal key to capitalizing on the potential that the Melford project offers Toledo. Toledo must now prove to the Melford International Terminal group that we have the willpower to bring all of these resources together to be the partner they are seeking,” states Alex Johnson, CEO of Midwest Terminals of Toledo, Inc. The Melford project makes perfect business sense as many North American ports are at capacity and unable to meet the rising cargo handling demands due to the growth of imports to the region. The route from the Suez Canal to the Strait of Canso, where Melford is located, is also the most time and fuel-efficient route for the Asia-Pacific marketplace to reach North America via the Suez Canal. European shippers will also find that the Melford location has the ability to quickly handle cargo, allowing for the best use of resources when sending goods into North America. “Few marine projects in the history of the St. Lawrence Seaway have offered an opportunity to significantly expand the waterway’s marketing potential as profoundly as the proposed Melford International Terminal,” stated Terry Johnson, Administrator, Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. “All Great Lakes Seaway System ports and terminals could benefit from the Melford project which will provide a real opportunity to increase cargo tonnage as well as the overall utilization of the Seaway System.” MITI plans to break ground in October on the $300 million container handling facility on the mainland side of the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia on Canada's East Coast. It is anticipated that the facility will begin to operate by late 2010 and, when fully operational in 2013, will handle up to 1.5 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) per year.
07.07.2008	Rocket Hall, University of Toledo (corner of Secor Road and Dorr Street) Saturday, July 26, 20089 AM to 3 PM Who Should Attend: Individuals who are behind on their mortgage loan payments, or are in danger of falling behind. Nonprofit foreclosure prevention counselors, loan servicers, and legal aid attorneys will be at your service to help you work out your loan or mitigate your financial loss. Which Lenders / Loan Servicers Will be on Hand: Washington Mutual, GMAC, Fifth Third, Huntington, and National City Bank are currently committed to attend.* What you need to bring to the workshop: 1. Name of mortgage company and loan account number, found on billing statement 2. Recent income documents, which may include: Pay stubs Benefit statements from Social Security, disability, unemployment, retirement, or public assistance Tax returns or year-to-date profit and loss statement, if self-employed 3. List of household expenses Please contact Congresswoman Kaptur with any questions: 419-259-7500. * Additional lenders and loan servicers will be added.
07.07.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Rocket Hall, University of Toledo (corner of Secor Road and Dorr Street) Saturday, July 26, 20089 AM to 3 PM Who Should Attend: Individuals who are behind on their mortgage loan payments, or are in danger of falling behind. Nonprofit foreclosure prevention counselors, loan servicers, and legal aid attorneys will be at your service to help you work out your loan or mitigate your financial loss. Which Lenders / Loan Servicers Will be on Hand: Washington Mutual, GMAC, Fifth Third, Huntington, and National City Bank are currently committed to attend.* What you need to bring to the workshop: 1. Name of mortgage company and loan account number, found on billing statement 2. Recent income documents, which may include: Pay stubs Benefit statements from Social Security, disability, unemployment, retirement, or public assistance Tax returns or year-to-date profit and loss statement, if self-employed 3. List of household expenses Please contact Congresswoman Kaptur with any questions: 419-259-7500. * Additional lenders and loan servicers will be added.
07.03.2008	U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur said the Independence Day holiday is the ideal time for Americans to reflect on the legacy of the Founders and to rededicate themselves to the principles of independence that has made our nation great. “We need to recapture America’s independence and stand on our own two feet again,” she said. “It will require sacrifice, discipline and responsibility, but we must reclaim our legacy. “America cannot sacrifice its independence due to an addiction to foreign oil. Instead, we must become energy independent. “Likewise, we cannot continue to post budget deficits and trade deficits, putting our financial future in the hands of foreign creditors such as China and Saudi Arabia or other governments that would buy out our heritage. We should declare our financial independence as well. “On this glorious Fourth of July holiday, freedom’s clock is ticking for this generation. Are we going to hear it?”
06.26.2008	An estimated 5.2 million Americans who are either disabled veterans or retired workers have not yet filed to claim their economic stimulus payments. This includes approximately a quarter of a million Ohioans. Eligible individuals are receiving up to $600 per person ($1,200 per couple), plus $300 for eligible children under 17. Congress passed the stimulus legislation to revive the U.S. economy, but first the money needs to get to people it was meant to help. If you have not yet filed for the payment or not yet received your payment from the IRS, please contact my office at 419-259-7500. For more information, visit the Internal Revenue Service .
06.12.2008	“More than a third of a million Ohioans are out of work, and they need a lifeline to keep their heads above water,” said Congresswoman Kaptur after the House overwhelmingly passed the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act. The legislation, which would immediately provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits, was approved by a vote of 274-137. Congresswoman Kaptur urged House Republicans to join Democrats in standing up for American workers by overriding an expected presidential veto. Noting today’s Wall Street Journal poll that shows 21 percent of the public approves of President Bush’s handling of the economy, Congresswoman Kaptur said families hit by unemployment should not be made to suffer as a result of the president’s failed policies. “The American people might have lost faith in the president,” said Kaptur, “but we cannot lose faith in the American people.” Six Ohio Republicans—a majority of the Ohio congressional delegation—voted in favor of the extended benefits. Across the country, families are struggling with a weak economy, including the largest monthly increase in unemployment in the past 20 years, as well as $4-a-gallon gasoline. The Federal Reserve’s Beige Book, a survey of national economic conditions, reported yesterday that U.S. consumer spending has suffered due to higher costs for food and energy. The legislation approved in the House today would benefit 3.8 million jobless Americans by providing up to 13 weeks of extended benefits to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment compensation. The most recent unemployment rates are as follows: Ottawa County, 7.6%; Lucas County, 6.5% (including 7.1% in Toledo); 6.3% in Erie County; 6.2% in Lorain County; and, 5.6% in the state of Ohio.
06.11.2008	The need for action is underscored by the slowing economy. The U.S. has lost jobs for five straight months; unemployment rose to 5.5 percent in May. In Ohio, 335,000 workers are unemployed. The unemployment rate in Ohio is 5.6 percent. In the Ninth District, the jobless rate is 7.6% in Ottawa County, 6.5% in Lucas County, 6.3% in Erie County and 6.2% in Lorain County. Already buffeted by rising gasoline prices and a raft of home foreclosures, thousands of Ohio families find themselves in need of the safety net provided by unemployment benefits. On a ‘macro’ level, unemployment benefits provide a stimulus for a beleaguered economy because the money is spent quickly on necessary items. Studies indicate that every $1 in unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic demand. Should the President veto the bill as he has threatened, Kaptur said, "To veto unemployment insurance—benefits that workers across our nation have earned—would only reaffirm how out of touch this president is. He reminds me of Marie Antoinette who, when told her countrymen were hungry, said: ‘Let them eat cake.’ "
06.10.2008	Marcy Kaptur, expressing deep concern over a growing shortage of food at local pantries and soup kitchens, contributed 10,000 pounds of Ohio-grown potatoes to the Toledo Seagate Food Bank. Congresswoman Kaptur directed $1,000 from a Congressional pay raise account—which consists of funds from the congressional pay raises that she has refused to accept—to purchase the potatoes from Michael Farms, a family-owned business in Champaign County. Kaptur said she was able to purchase 10,000 pounds of Ohio potatoes for $1,000 (or, $1 per 10-pound bag). Kaptur urged local groups to copy her example and combine their buying power to get the most food for their dollar by procuring directly from Ohio’s family farmers. “Our community has the makings of a food emergency locally,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Requests for food assistance have increased 37 percent in the past year, while donations have fallen by approximately 65 percent. “We have an obligation to do everything we can. I am making this personal donation to the Seagate Food Bank, and frankly I hope it will inspire others to follow suit and make precious food dollars stretch by bulk buying directly from Ohio farmers,” she said. “Every person and organization can make a difference. Although we live in one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world, many people are food short right here in our community. We have to think about creative solutions—how to directly link food pantries and feeding sites to Ohio’s farmers, or to grow the product in the city. Bulk buying can stretch the food dollar a long way. Spending every food dollar wisely can get the most food at the best price and through price and quality through purchasing directly from family farmers.” Congresswoman Kaptur presented the first bag of potatoes to Debbie Vas, executive director of the Toledo Seagate Food Bank, and challenged community-minded organizations, religious groups and civic-minded individuals to follow her example by working with local farmers and growers to purchase foodstuffs to help replenish local food pantries and soup kitchens. Local organizations that wish to procure foodstuffs for the needy from Ohio farmers should contact the Center for Innovative Food Technology at 419-535-6000 or 877-668-3472.
06.10.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur directed $1,000 from a Congressional pay raise account—which consists of funds from the congressional pay raises that she has refused to accept—to purchase the potatoes from Michael Farms, a family-owned business in Champaign County. Kaptur said she was able to purchase 10,000 pounds of Ohio potatoes for $1,000 (or, $1 per 10-pound bag). Kaptur urged local groups to copy her example and combine their buying power to get the most food for their dollar by procuring directly from Ohio’s family farmers. “Our community has the makings of a food emergency locally,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. Requests for food assistance have increased 37 percent in the past year, while donations have fallen by approximately 65 percent. “We have an obligation to do everything we can. I am making this personal donation to the Seagate Food Bank, and frankly I hope it will inspire others to follow suit and make precious food dollars stretch by bulk buying directly from Ohio farmers,” she said. “Every person and organization can make a difference. Although we live in one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world, many people are food short right here in our community. We have to think about creative solutions—how to directly link food pantries and feeding sites to Ohio’s farmers, or to grow the product in the city. Bulk buying can stretch the food dollar a long way. Spending every food dollar wisely can get the most food at the best price and through price and quality through purchasing directly from family farmers.” Congresswoman Kaptur presented the first bag of potatoes to Debbie Vas, executive director of the Toledo Seagate Food Bank, and challenged community-minded organizations, religious groups and civic-minded individuals to follow her example by working with local farmers and growers to purchase foodstuffs to help replenish local food pantries and soup kitchens. Local organizations that wish to procure foodstuffs for the needy from Ohio farmers should contact the Center for Innovative Food Technology at 419-535-6000 or 877-668-3472.
06.05.2008	“This honor showcases the excellent workers and companies who call Toledo their home,” Kaptur said. “Toledo-made and American-made products are superior because the workers who make them are among the most talented, dedicated, and hardest-working in the world, and they deserve this national recognition.” The Toledo Supplier Park operated by Chrysler, LLC builds the Jeep Wrangler, and the GM Powertrain facility assembles transmissions. This is the second year in a row the GM plant has won its division; it has been ranked first or second among North American transmission and powertrain plants every year since 2000.
06.04.2008	“This resolution by the House recognizes two well-known lawmakers, two favorite sons of our community,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “These visionary Americans advanced America’s promise and made immeasurable public service contributions to both define and direct the course of our nation—James Ashley in the abolitionist fight of the Nineteenth Century and Lud Ashley in the binding up of America’s wounds in the civil rights struggle in the Twentieth Century.” James Ashley served in the U.S. House of Representatives during the Civil War era (1859-1969). His lasting accomplishment was to co-author legislation in 1864 that resulted in the constitutional amendment to abolish slavery in the United States. Congress passed the legislation in 1865; the requisite number of states ratified the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution in December of that year. James Ashley later served as chairman of the Committee on Territories and was appointed governor of Montana. “These extraordinarily brave actions illustrate James Ashley’s courageous leadership,” Congresswoman Kaptur said. “They reflect the Ashley family’s place in history on the scales of justice and equality for all people.” His great-grandson, Thomas Ludlow Ashley, served 13 terms in the U.S. House (1955-1981), including a stint as chairman of the Select Committee on Energy, to which he was appointed by Speaker Thomas “Tip” O’Neill to prepare comprehensive legislative proposals to promote energy independence. He also served as Chairman of the Committee on Merchant Marines and Fisheries and as Assistant Majority Whip. “Lud” Ashley was also a leader in community development. “His efforts led to better housing for the less fortunate across our nation,” Kaptur said. “As chairman of the Housing and Community Development subcommittee for the Banking Committee, he, like his great-grandfather, championed social justice. He wrote and gained passage of the Housing and Community Development Acts of 1974 and 1977 to rebuild America’s cities and communities.” Kaptur, described Ashley as “a banker’s banker,” said he also gained passage of the Bank Merger Act of 1966, the Export Development Administration Act of 1969 and the Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971 as well as the Energy Conservation Act of 1976. Lud Ashley, an Army veteran of World War II, founded a legal and consulting firm in Washington, D.C. after leaving the House.
05.23.2008	“The high cost of energy in general, and gasoline in particular, is putting a real squeeze on American families,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Drivers are paying the price because the Bush Administration failed to produce an energy policy.” Kaptur noted that Congress has taken several steps to address the cost of gasoline, which has increased from $1.46 in January 2001 to $3.80 in the most recent official reporting period. In recent days, Congresswoman Kaptur backed legislation to suspend filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, invest in renewable energy sources, and explore antitrust enforcement actions against the multinational oil companies and the foreign oil cartels. Kaptur said even tougher measures are warranted. “The price increase going into the Memorial Day weekend is as outrageous and it was predictable,” she said. “Congress should take even more steps to hold the oil companies and the foreign cartels accountable.” The Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act, which passed U.S. House of Representatives earlier this week, would create a new oil antitrust task force inside the U.S. Department of Justice. It would amend the Sherman Anti-Trust Act to give the Department the authority to sue foreign oil cartels that violate U.S. antitrust laws. It also requests the Government Accountability Office to study the effects on competition of prior oil company mergers. “Congress' work on short-term responses is important, but we need a long-term commitment to energy independence,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The high price of gasoline is a symptom of our dependence on foreign oil, which is a clear threat to our families and to our country's economic independence.” Kaptur noted that the recently-passed farm bill, which was vetoed by President Bush, would boost homegrown biofuel production made from biomass and crop byproducts other than grain. She said gasoline prices could be as much as 15 percent higher than the current price if not for the use of biofuel in the nation’s current fuel mix.
05.21.2008	Marcy's remarks at the 2008 International Association of Machinists (IAM) Legislative Conference, where she was presented with the Official Fighting Machinist Eagle award. The presentation followed a video commemorating her October 2007 speech on the Machinists strike at Kennedy Space Center. [Text of that speech here.] Machinists President R. Thomas Buffenbarger and Vice President Richard P. Michalski present Kaptur with the Official Fighting Machinist Eagle award. I am proud to be here today with Members of a great union. You know what it takes to build a strong America, with a strong middle class. To President Tom Buffenbarger, let me say I appreciate the fact you don’t mince words. I always know what you mean. This stands in stark contrast to Congress, in which I work, where so often when someone finishes their remarks, you don’t know whether they are for or against what they have just spoken about. I am honored to be here this morning on behalf of every human being who has gathered the courage to stand up and say: “My work has worth.” The value of the work I do -- both mind and body—deserves full legal standing as a “right of contract.” It should not be casual, nor day labor, nor bonded, nor at will…but by law. This bold passage to a brave, new consciousness of the worth of human work, sadly, does not belong to all people. But it should. The struggle for labor rights has been noble. And it has been grizzly. It is global in dimension. It always has been. Just ask the descendants of slaves. Recently, in Congress, as another Nafta-like trade agreement -- this time for Peru --was being shoved down our throats, the miners of Peru struck from Monday to Wednesday. They did all they could do send a message to Congress to defeat that agreement. Some in Congress heard their call. A majority did not. Now, there is another Nafta-like agreement proposed for Columbia that is being held in suspension for a vote in Congress. But we don’t know when because of the approaching elections. Yet over 30 labor leaders of Columbia have been assassinated this year already. Labor’s struggle holds hope that there is a way for us to attain the promised land in this life, not the next. The struggle for labor reminds me of the words from the Broadway Musical Les Miserables; “Will you join in my parade, will you be strong and stand with me, it is the music of a people who will not be slaves again.” Once I took a businessman to that show on Broadway and afterwards we had dinner. He asked me: “What was that story all about?” I don’t get it.” He had no consciousness. A few weeks ago, an elderly woman in my church came up to me and lamented “Marcy, our country doesn’t belong to us anymore. Go back to Washington, and keep fighting!!” Her family you see had experienced middle class job outsourcing, and loss of health insurance. She would be uplifted to know we are here today to join our voices for her family and America’s working families. Kaptur addresses the IAM Legislative Conference. Let’s call her “Mrs. America.” Mrs. America understands our nation’s standard of living is at stake when a fine company like Maytag shuts down in Newton, Iowa and moves production to Mexico and Singapore. Thousands of Americans were out of work just because Lester Crown thinks he should earn billions more off a cheapened product and cheap labor. He hurt America. Maytag was a great product and it helped our nation’s productivity including by lifting the burden off women who had to do most of that laundry in the past. Mrs. America understands our nation’s standard of living is at stake when the Bush Adm awards a major Dept. of Defense contract to a firm from a foreign country that is non union and puts its footprint down in a right to work state. Let me assure you, as a member of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee of the U.S. House, when that proposal comes before us this year, my vote will be Buy America and Build America. Thank you Tom, and Rich and your officers for arranging meetings for me in Newton, Iowa at Maytag so I could meet and film the workers and engineers to tell the story of the people who built one of the America’s greatest products for a century. The visit was poignant and unforgettable. What happened there and in Galesburg, Illinois never should have. But let me tell you the other half of the story. A few months after visiting Iowa, I found myself travelling to Monterrey, Mexico to seek justice in the murder of a Mexican Farm labor organizer --Santiago Cruz-- who had been trained in my district. Santiago had returned to his country to inform farm laborers there they did not have to pay bounty hunters and coyotes $10,000 to come to this country to work in our fields. They could come as contract workers if no American wanted the job and they could do so legally and without fear. Santiago had been travelling to fields and work camps explaining to workers that they could come as contract workers. Santiago was 28 years of age, and was beaten to death, while tied to a chair on the second floor the tiny farm labor office located next to a Catholic Church were workers could rest safely and get food before their journey to our country. As we were driving on the main highway to our officials meetings with the Mexican Attorney General of Nuevo Leon, the state in which Monterrey is located, our taxi drove by a huge new manufacturing complex whose signs read: MAYTAG, WHIRLPOOL, AMANA, and across the street, AMWAY. I yelled out: Stop the car! I took photos and reflected on the meetings I had had with Maytag workers as I witnessed firsthand this replacement facility. Our officials meetings have yielded no prosecutions, and no justice in a nation that has no rule of law. Two weeks after my visit down there, I called the Attorney General to inquire about progress in the case. I learned he had to step down from his position due to suspected drug trafficking. People suffer. Workers suffer. The idea of democracy suffers in a country like that. When America was founded, slaves were brought here and treated like property to be disposed of by the owners. Now, machines are moved to where workers have no rights, and Wall Street politely calls its “globalization.” Booker T. Washington reminded us “there are two ways of exerting one’s strength: “one is pushing down,” (and how well we know that technique in the Congress), “the other is pulling up.”” Today, your presence, your achievements, your fight are America’s fighting chance. You are pulling up workers, pulling up the rule of law, pulling up democracy. Mrs. America would be proud of you And she would be the first to say America needs you now more than ever. Thank you.
05.20.2008	“Senator Ted Kennedy, the lion of the Senate and always a fighter for causes such as national health care, social justice and help for the poorest Americans, is in our hearts and prayers today as he fights against illness. I join with our community in sending heartfelt wishes for a rapid recovery to the Senator.”
05.16.2008	The U.S. Department of Agriculture has extended until May 30 the deadline for farmers in the Sandusky Watershed to apply for the Conservation Security Program (CSP). The Sandusky Watershed includes certain farms located in eastern Ottawa County and western Erie County, which are located in the Ninth Congressional District. Under the Conservation Security Program, a voluntary program, producers who practice outstanding stewardship on working agricultural land can receive payments as high as $15,000 a year for a five-year period, depending on their level of participation. Payments can vary depending on the size of the farm and could be subject to contract payment caps. For more information, contact the NRCS at https://www.oh.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/csp_2/csp_home_2008.html or contact the local USDA Service Center.
05.16.2008	The award would be used to install modern computer and camera-based surveillance systems to monitor activity in and around the Toledo port’s 19 terminals. The project also would include installation of lighting and towers to deter criminal and potential terrorist activity. “Our port is the aorta for international commerce moving through Northwest Ohio,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “We are located at the fulcrum of the Great Lakes shipping system and share an important border with Canada. This award will substantially enhance the security of our facilities so we can continue to compete globally.” Toledo ranks among the top 50 seaports in the United States, handling more than 12 million tons of cargo annually. Congresswoman Kaptur has been actively involved in securing federal funds for port operations as well as harbor dredging and a shipyard project. She recently participated in discussions with Ohio Governor Ted Strickland regarding new opportunities for shipping through the St. Lawrence Seaway.
05.15.2008	The Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 318-106, which would indicate enough support to override a threatened veto by President Bush. “This legislation gives a lifeline to millions of American families who are struggling with soaring food prices,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The need is urgent, even overwhelming, right here in our own region, which is part of America ’s agriculture powerhouse. The bill also strengthens America ’s family farms and improves our agricultural security.” Congresswoman Kaptur expressed great satisfaction with several key provisions of the bill that she had fought to incorporate into U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) policies for almost a decade, including: · A major commitment to bioenergy fuel production along with food, fiber and forestry;· Expansion and strengthening of the Senior Farmers Market Coupon program, which has been extremely popular in areas of the Ninth Congressional District;· Enlargement of the Farmers Market promotion program to help family farmers sell their products, including use of electronic benefit transfer cards;· A requirement for USDA to include vegetables and fruits in its nutrition programs and expanded research and marketing for specialty crops;· Expansion of emergency food commodities to meet growing shortages in food banks and pantries across the country;· Implementation of country of origin labeling requirements for food products, including meat, so consumers know where their food originates;· Extension of farm protection programs, with funding increases; and, · A moratorium on closing or relocating county Farm Service Agency offices for two years. Congresswoman Kaptur, who was the original backer for creating the Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program, which provides coupons to senior citizens to buy fresh fruits and vegetables at farmers markets, said the bill will invest $103 million into the program nationwide. Approximately 73.5 percent of the funds in the legislation will support nutrition programs that help feed 38 million American families. The bill expands the food stamp program to help approximately 11 additional million Americans by the year 2012 and gives much-needed support to emergency feeding organizations such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens by increasing funding by $1.25 billion – with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Additionally, the bill helps provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables under the National School Lunch Program. The bill will aid struggling farmers by reforming disaster assistance to make it a permanent, paid-for program when crops are damaged or destroyed by natural disasters. To encourage conservation, the bill boosts by $7.9 billion programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, and increase wildlife habitat. The bill will help farmers play a greater role in fueling America ’s energy independence by investing $1 billion in renewable energy. It will focus on new technologies and new sources, taking another critical step in moving beyond corn as an energy source to non-food crops as well as switchgrass, woodchips, corn stalks and sugar crops. Finally, the legislation takes a step in the direction of subsidy reform. It reduces direct farm payments by $300 million and cuts by $5.7 billion federal payments to crop insurance companies that are making windfall profits due to higher crop prices. Kaptur expressed disappointment that the legislation did not go far enough in capping subsidies to wealthy Americans. # # #
05.06.2008	Marcy Kaptur met with World War II Veterans as part of the Honor Flight Program. The program, which flies veterans to Washington, D.C. to see memorials erected in their honor, recently brought a group of veterans from Northwest Ohio to the National Mall. "It is so fortunate that these veterans, who risked their lives for our country, are able to see how much our country appreciates them," Kaptur said. "I am so proud of all those who serve our country, and I wish we could do more to honor their sacrifices." Kaptur had lunch with the group at the World War II Memorial, a monument for which she introduced the initial legislation after a constituent, Roger Durbin, suggested it to her. Former Senator Bob Dole (R-KS), who sponsored the legislation in the Senate, also greeted the group.
05.05.2008	“Record high gasoline prices are putting the squeeze on American families and hurting our economy,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Congress gave the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) greater power to prevent price manipulation, and now the public has an opportunity to help the agency shape the new rules to deal with this situation.” Congress gave the FTC new authority under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Now the FTC is seeking public comments through June 6 as it decides how to prevent manipulation of oil and gasoline prices. The request for public comments, said FTC Chairman William E. Kovacic, “is an important part of our effort ... to protect the American people.” Kaptur said the congressional legislation prohibits anyone from using any “manipulative or deceptive device on contrivance, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe...” The public comments will be used by the Commission to determine whether and how to develop rules to prevent market manipulation. “Most consumers believe that gasoline prices are manipulated in some fashion,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Now the public has an opportunity to address this issue and propose solutions, especially focusing on what constitutes manipulation or deceptive behavior on the part of the oil companies and gasoline retailers and what the appropriate penalties should be.” Citizens can send comments by e-mail by visiting the following site: https://secure.commentworks.com/ftc-marketmanipulationANPR/ . Written comments should be mailed to: Market Manipulation Rulemaking, P.O. Box 2846, Fairfax, VA 22031-0846. All comments should include the following notation: Market Manipulation Rulemaking, PO82900. After reviewing the public comments, the FTC will propose a rule to implement the provisions of the congressional legislation
04.30.2008	“I am glad to finally answer the calls of so many of my constituents who have been asking for improvements to the GI Bill,” declared Kaptur, an original cosponsor of the legislation. “I am proud of those who serve our country at home and abroad, and I applaud Congress for rewarding their dedication.” Under the new GI Bill, service members returning from Iraq or Afghanistan, who have served 3 years on active duty, would receive benefits to cover the costs of a four-year education up to the level of the most expensive in-state public school, along with a stipend for housing, books and other expenses. Education benefits would be available to troops who have served at least 3 months of active duty service since September 11, 2001, including members of the National Guard and Reserve. Right now, veterans’ education benefits cover only about 60 percent of the cost of a public-school education. The original GI Bill launched millions of families on a course of prosperity and toward achieving the American Dream—and set the American economy on the right course after a draining war. It made a free college education available to more than 15 million war veterans after World War II. By 1956, about 8 million World War II veterans took advantage the GI Bill education and job training. Every dollar spent on the original GI Bill created a seven-fold return for the economy. The new GI Bill is broadly supported by all major veterans’ organizations, including the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. The bill has 249 cosponsors in the House (including 71 Republicans) and 58 sponsors in the Senate (including 11 Republicans).
04.23.2008	To see the PDF of the document, with signatures, click here . Dear President Bush, We write to express concerns on the eve of your traveling to New Orleans, Louisiana for your fourth summit meeting held in series with your Mexican and Canadian counterparts since the 2005 launch of the Security and Prosperity Partnership (SPP). We seek to articulate the growing unease of concerned citizens in all three countries over a major continental initiative being planned in a closed process without due legislative oversight. All the signatories of this letter (as well as similar letters in Canada and Mexico) favor closer and better relations with our North American neighbors, but we object strenuously to a process that permits the executives of our respective countries to bypass constitutionally mandated review. Because SPP implementation currently envisions no Congressional ratification process, negotiation should be halted until the mechanisms of the SPP negotiations are made transparent and proper legislative oversight is established. Sincerely, Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) Peter DeFazio (D-OR) Michal Michaud (D-ME) Betty McCollum (D-MN) Phil Hare (D-IL) Betty Sutton (D-OH) Virgil Goode (R-VA) Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) James McGovern (D-MA) Nancy Boyda (D-KS) Janice Schakowsky (D-IL) Donald Payne (D-NJ)
04.10.2008	The Department of Homeland Security has relaxed a policy that would have required recreational and commercial boaters report to U.S. Customs after every trip in which they crossed the international boundary in the middle of Lake Erie. “I am pleased that the department has found the right balance between security concerns and fishing boats,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who had written to the Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and also pressed the matter with U.S. Rep. Benny Thompson (D-Miss.), chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. Kaptur applauded members of the Lake Erie Charter Boat Association, which brought the onerous new rules to her attention during a March 20 meeting in Port Clinton. “I appreciate the involvement of the charter boat operators,” Kaptur said. “They are important players in our regional economy and the new rules would have impacted their businesses. We are ever mindful of the security concerns that accompany living on the border and we are also attentive to the needs of our small businesses that make a living on the lake.” In her letter to Secretary Chertoff, Congresswoman Kaptur said the new policies had “the potential to harm our seasonal tourism industry” and urged him to streamline the regulations as quickly as possible. Charter boat captains also welcomed the news that the department had relaxed the proposed new regulations.
04.08.2008	“President Bush is pushing an agreement that ignores the violence, corruption, discrimination, and blatant human rights violations perpetrated by President Uribe’s administration in Colombia,” Kaptur said. “If this Administration were truly interested in securing the Western Hemisphere, the President would not be turning a blind eye to the continuation of murder, kidnapping, and assassination in this country, and would advocate for free trade only among free peoples.” The U.S. Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) was introduced today in the House of Representatives on behalf of President Bush and against the wishes of the Democratic majority. Because of Fast Track procedures, the House is forced to take up the bill within 90 legislative days. Kaptur, long an advocate of fair and reciprocal trade policies that advance democracy, a rule of law, and economic prosperity, led a majority of House Democrats to oppose the Peru FTA last year and vocally opposed of the current trade model since before the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1993. Kaptur is also the sponsor of H. Res. 336 which establishes moral and ethical principles to which all trade agreements should adhere in order to use trade as a development tool as opposed to an exploitative one. The text of the resolution is as follows: “Expressing the sense of Congress relating to the trade promotion agreement between the United States and Colombia. “Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that Congress should not approve the trade promotion agreement between the United States and Colombia signed on November 22, 2006.”
04.08.2008	Marcy Kaptur joined with officials from the Northwest Ohio Area Office on Aging at Toledo’s outdoor farmers market to kick-off the popular Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program (SFMCP). “As we come to this year’s Spring season, we welcome the start of the Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program,” said Kaptur. “Since this effort began in the summer of 2001, it has provided nearly $10 million in fresh fruits and vegetables to thousands of our region’s older adults, while also providing income to hundreds of local growers. We are always looking for ways to expand the success of our local and independent growers throughout the district. The Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program does just that and encourages good nutrition for older adults. This is an ideal way to support better nutrition and keep our food dollars local. Since the program began, over 100 family farmers in northwest Ohio have registered to sell home grown product and an average of 18,000 senior citizens are participating.” The Ohio Department of Aging and the Area Office on Aging received a grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in the amount of $1,187,412 to provide locally grown fresh fruits, vegetables, and herbs to 17,000 eligible older adults citizens in Northwest Ohio. This is the eighth consecutive year for the effort supported by Kaptur, who serves on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the USDA and the Senior Nutrition grant. Mrs. Billie Johnson, Executive Director of the Area Office on Aging, stated, “We are very pleased to be able to offer the Farmers’ Market Coupon Program again to our older adults. This initiative is a wonderful way to help continue in our mission to serve older adults while improving quality of life. We have the opportunity to expand nutrition service options, enabling people to purchase the very best in quality produce fresh from our own region. We have been able to develop a strong partnership with area farmers, the State Departments of Health and Aging, and USDA, to successfully implement a creative program seniors have truly appreciated and fully utilized. The Farmers Market Coupon Program is the most popular of our many offerings, with older adults happy to put money in the pockets of local farmers while enjoying the best of their produce.” Dr. Rebecca Liebes, Director of Nutrition at the Area Office on Aging noted, “We have heard from thousands of older adults who have benefited from the program during the last seven years, many of whom were able to enhance special diets and improve their overall health as a result of being able to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables. Our goal is to improve the diets of older adults by offering coupons to be used to purchase fresh produce from local farmers to supplement their meals. In turn, our elders are helping local farmers by giving them a greater outlet to sell their produce.” To qualify, people age 60 by June 1, 2008 with household incomes of less than $25,900 per year for couples and $19,240 for individuals may apply for the coupons. Larger households should add $6,660 for each member of the household after the first two. The Area Office on Aging explained that applications will be mailed to all previous participants by April 15, 2008. New participants or those who may have moved may obtain an application by calling the Area Office on Aging at 419-382-0624 or 1-800-472-7277. Coupons will be mailed to those who return their applications by May 31, 2008, by June 15, 2008. Coupons will be mailed to those who return their applications after May 31, 2008 as soon as the application is processed. Once the application is processed, eligible seniors will receive 10 - $5 coupons valid until October 31, 2008. A list of farm markets and stands will be included with the coupons in the mail. More than one hundred local farmers are participating in the Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program this year. Farmers will have the produce clearly marked as to what produce is locally grown. Older adults too frail or homebound to shop may designate someone to shop for them at the farm market or stand. This person is called a proxy. Both the senior and his/her proxy must complete the application. Kaptur concluded, “This is a big plus for our region – for older adults and family farmers. It is the only one in the state and one of the few in the nation. It truly represents a win-win for farmers and older adults alike. We applaud the Area Office on Aging’s bold pursuit of this federal effort to aid older adults’ nutrition while contributing to the economic success of family farmers.”
04.08.2008	“As we come to this year’s Spring season, we welcome the start of the Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program,” said Kaptur. “Since this effort began in the summer of 2001, it has provided nearly $10 million in fresh fruits and vegetables to thousands of our region’s older adults, while also providing income to hundreds of local growers. We are always looking for ways to expand the success of our local and independent growers throughout the district. The Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program does just that and encourages good nutrition for older adults. This is an ideal way to support better nutrition and keep our food dollars local. Since the program began, over 100 family farmers in northwest Ohio have registered to sell home grown product and an average of 18,000 senior citizens are participating.” The Ohio Department of Aging and the Area Office on Aging received a grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in the amount of $1,187,412 to provide locally grown fresh fruits, vegetables, and herbs to 17,000 eligible older adults citizens in Northwest Ohio. This is the eighth consecutive year for the effort supported by Kaptur, who serves on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the USDA and the Senior Nutrition grant. Mrs. Billie Johnson, Executive Director of the Area Office on Aging, stated, “We are very pleased to be able to offer the Farmers’ Market Coupon Program again to our older adults. This initiative is a wonderful way to help continue in our mission to serve older adults while improving quality of life. We have the opportunity to expand nutrition service options, enabling people to purchase the very best in quality produce fresh from our own region. We have been able to develop a strong partnership with area farmers, the State Departments of Health and Aging, and USDA, to successfully implement a creative program seniors have truly appreciated and fully utilized. The Farmers Market Coupon Program is the most popular of our many offerings, with older adults happy to put money in the pockets of local farmers while enjoying the best of their produce.” Dr. Rebecca Liebes, Director of Nutrition at the Area Office on Aging noted, “We have heard from thousands of older adults who have benefited from the program during the last seven years, many of whom were able to enhance special diets and improve their overall health as a result of being able to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables. Our goal is to improve the diets of older adults by offering coupons to be used to purchase fresh produce from local farmers to supplement their meals. In turn, our elders are helping local farmers by giving them a greater outlet to sell their produce.” To qualify, people age 60 by June 1, 2008 with household incomes of less than $25,900 per year for couples and $19,240 for individuals may apply for the coupons. Larger households should add $6,660 for each member of the household after the first two. The Area Office on Aging explained that applications will be mailed to all previous participants by April 15, 2008. New participants or those who may have moved may obtain an application by calling the Area Office on Aging at 419-382-0624 or 1-800-472-7277. Coupons will be mailed to those who return their applications by May 31, 2008, by June 15, 2008. Coupons will be mailed to those who return their applications after May 31, 2008 as soon as the application is processed. Once the application is processed, eligible seniors will receive 10 - $5 coupons valid until October 31, 2008. A list of farm markets and stands will be included with the coupons in the mail. More than one hundred local farmers are participating in the Senior Farmers’ Market Coupon Program this year. Farmers will have the produce clearly marked as to what produce is locally grown. Older adults too frail or homebound to shop may designate someone to shop for them at the farm market or stand. This person is called a proxy. Both the senior and his/her proxy must complete the application. Kaptur concluded, “This is a big plus for our region – for older adults and family farmers. It is the only one in the state and one of the few in the nation. It truly represents a win-win for farmers and older adults alike. We applaud the Area Office on Aging’s bold pursuit of this federal effort to aid older adults’ nutrition while contributing to the economic success of family farmers.”
03.27.2008	Red is high-risk for flooding. The flooding that has affected Ohio and other Heartland states in recent weeks is merely “a sign of things to come,” according to the National Weather Service. The Service cited record rainfall and melting snow packs as major contributing factors. Congresswoman Kaptur has long advocated a regional solution to the water management issues affecting the Maumee River basin in northwest Ohio. She has met with local officials to discuss water management strategies and conveyed the concerns of Northern Ohio communities to federal leaders such as Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. More than 250 communities in a dozen states have experienced flood conditions in recent weeks. “We expect rains and melting snow to bring more flooding this spring,” said Vickie Nadolski, deputy director of the National Weather Service. According to the Service, the science supporting short-term forecasts allows for a high level of certainty. “Americans should be on high alert to flood conditions,” Nadolski said. “Arm yourselves with information about how to stay safe during a flood and do not attempt to drive on flooded roadways—remember to always turn around, don’t drown.
03.20.2008	March | April | May |Jun | Jul | Aug | Sep | Oct |OctoberProtecting Your Bank Account AugustFederal Agencies Present Plan of Attack for Harmful Algal Blooms JulyWhen Crossing the Border into the U.S. May CSP Signup Extended to May 30 in Sandusky Watershed March More Floods To Come Lake Erie Committee Recommends 33% Cut in Walleye Take in 2008 Kaptur Commends Goodwill for Computer Recycling Service
03.20.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur recently commended Goodwill Industries of Northwest Ohio, which has partnered with Dell Computers, on “Reconnect,” a free drop-off program to recycle unwanted computers. “The Reconnect program has the potential not only to divert environmentally dangerous products from the solid waste stream but also provide new opportunities for disabled citizens throughout Northern Ohio,” Kaptur said. People who want to recycle used computers can drop them off at 14 participating Goodwill donation centers and retail stores. They should remove data from their hard drives and other storage media before making the donation. Proceeds from the program will support Goodwill’s non-profit job training and employment programs. For more information, contact Goodwill Industries of Northwest Ohio.
03.20.2008	Marcy Kaptur made good on her commitment to help Vermilion deal with excess noise caused by heavy rail traffic through the center of town. Kaptur announced she has secured $1 million in federal funds through the U.S. Department of Transportation to assist the city in establishing a rail “quiet zone.” Kaptur said she has enlisted the help of the Ohio Rail Development Commission to administer the federal funds and to work with the community on a comprehensive plan that increases safety at Vermilion crossings and alleviates constant noise from train whistles. “The members of Concerned Citizens of Vermilion have proceeded with due diligence and an unwavering commitment in their efforts to address the noise created by increased train traffic,” Kaptur said during a visit here. “I promised to help in one of my first ‘Congressional Listening Sessions’ after Erie County was added to the 9th District. I am pleased to honor this commitment to a more livable community. I applaud the city and its concerned citizens for working together towards a solution that will result in a safer, more peaceful community,” said Kaptur. Norfolk Southern and CSX Railroads applied in June, 1997 for joint acquisition of Conrail lines in Northeastern Ohio, resulting in a threefold increase in freight train traffic through the area. A 2003 agreement rerouted 97 trains a day traversing the center of Vermilion. The Concerned Citizens of Vermilion organized to address the noise caused by increased traffic. Although the city could qualify for funding through the Federal Railroad Administration’s designation of “quiet zones,” state constraints prohibited the community from obtaining it. The group eventually met with Kaptur, explaining the documented loss of tourist trade and businesses from the noise of 97 train whistles blasting through every day. Study had demonstrated that a “quiet zone” through which train whistles would not be blown could be achieved by limiting the number of crossings and with the installation of quad gates at crossings in a one mile space through the center of the city. Kaptur worked with the Concerned Citizens of Vermilion and city officials worked together to move the “quiet zone” concept forward. “Though work towards the final plan remains, today we celebrate the perseverance of a community engaged in an effort to make community improvements and accommodate important economic activity at the same time,” Kaptur said. What are railroad quiet zones? “A quiet zone is a railroad grade crossing at which trains are prohibited from sounding their horns in order to decrease the noise level for nearby residential communities. The train horns can be silenced only when other safety measures compensate for the absence of the horns. “The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) train horn rule provides localities nationwide with the opportunity to establish quiet zones. The federal rule pre-empts all applicable state laws. To qualify, communities wishing to establish quiet zones must equip proposed grade crossings with adequate safety measures to overcome the decrease in safety created by silencing the train horns. The additional safety measures must be constructed at the community’s own expense and must meet federal specifications. The federal rule also contains language which for the first time restricts the volume of train horns.” - Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, Consumer Information Guide
03.20.2008	“The members of Concerned Citizens of Vermilion have proceeded with due diligence and an unwavering commitment in their efforts to address the noise created by increased train traffic,” Kaptur said during a visit here. “I promised to help in one of my first ‘Congressional Listening Sessions’ after Erie County was added to the 9th District. I am pleased to honor this commitment to a more livable community. I applaud the city and its concerned citizens for working together towards a solution that will result in a safer, more peaceful community,” said Kaptur. Norfolk Southern and CSX Railroads applied in June, 1997 for joint acquisition of Conrail lines in Northeastern Ohio, resulting in a threefold increase in freight train traffic through the area. A 2003 agreement rerouted 97 trains a day traversing the center of Vermilion. The Concerned Citizens of Vermilion organized to address the noise caused by increased traffic. Although the city could qualify for funding through the Federal Railroad Administration’s designation of “quiet zones,” state constraints prohibited the community from obtaining it. The group eventually met with Kaptur, explaining the documented loss of tourist trade and businesses from the noise of 97 train whistles blasting through every day. Study had demonstrated that a “quiet zone” through which train whistles would not be blown could be achieved by limiting the number of crossings and with the installation of quad gates at crossings in a one mile space through the center of the city. Kaptur worked with the Concerned Citizens of Vermilion and city officials worked together to move the “quiet zone” concept forward. “Though work towards the final plan remains, today we celebrate the perseverance of a community engaged in an effort to make community improvements and accommodate important economic activity at the same time,” Kaptur said. What are railroad quiet zones? “A quiet zone is a railroad grade crossing at which trains are prohibited from sounding their horns in order to decrease the noise level for nearby residential communities. The train horns can be silenced only when other safety measures compensate for the absence of the horns. “The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) train horn rule provides localities nationwide with the opportunity to establish quiet zones. The federal rule pre-empts all applicable state laws. To qualify, communities wishing to establish quiet zones must equip proposed grade crossings with adequate safety measures to overcome the decrease in safety created by silencing the train horns. The additional safety measures must be constructed at the community’s own expense and must meet federal specifications. The federal rule also contains language which for the first time restricts the volume of train horns.” - Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, Consumer Information Guide
03.19.2008	Fishery managers on March 18 recommended a 33 percent reduction in the number of walleye that could be taken from Lake Erie in 2008 by commercial and sports fishermen. The managers also recommended an 11 percent reduction in the “total allowable take” of yellow perch. "Walleye and yellow perch fisheries in Lake Erie fluctuate based on annual spawning and survival," said Lake Erie Committee chair Mike Morencie of the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources. Recommendations from the fishery managers in Ohio, Michigan, New York, Pennsylvania and Ontario are implemented by the various state agencies, such as the Ohio Department of Natural Resources. The fishery managers, who make up the Lake Erie Committee, cited poor walleye and yellow perch hatches in three of the past six years and a below-average hatch last year. They said their recommendations are made to maintain and protect remaining stocks. The committee recommended a maximum take of 3.59 million walleye in 2008 compared to 5.36 million last year, with an actual 2007 harvest of 4.5 million fish. In 2008, Ohio would be entitled to 1.85 million fish, Ontario 1.56 million fish, and Michigan 191,000 million fish. For yellow perch, the committee recommended a total allowable of 10.2 million pounds, compared to 11.4 million pounds last year, with an actual harvest of 9.7 million pounds. Under the 2008 recommendations, Ontario’s allocation would be 4.9 million pounds of yellow perch, Ohio's would be 4.4 million pounds and Michigan’s 128,000 pounds. [Walleye amounts are expressed in total number of fish, whereas yellow perch amounts are listed in pounds.] Lake Erie’s walleye fishery is becoming increasingly reliant on a dwindling 2003 class. "As the committee did last year, we advise constituents that the outlook for higher catch limits is unlikely for the foreseeable future,” Mr. Morencie said. “We appreciate that lower harvest levels are hard on both commercial and recreational fishers and on local communities. We remain committed to working together to minimize those hardships while taking into account the management actions that must occur to ensure the continued health of the fishery.” For more information, visit the Lake Erie Committee online at www.glfc.org/lec .
03.18.2008	
03.11.2008	“We continue to seek out ways to create partnerships to develop the alternative energy sector of the economy and grow jobs in Northwest Ohio,” said Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Local cost sharing contributions will bring the total value of the two projects to $4.5 million, Kaptur said. In one project, UT researchers will team with Toledo-area industrial partners Calyxo USA and Pilkington to improve the efficiency of current thin-film photovoltaic modules. A key resource in this $2.1 million project will be the testing facilities at UT’s new, state-funded Wright Center for Photovoltaics Innovation and Commercialization. The other project, valued at $2.3 million, involves technology development at Xunlight Corp., a new Toledo-based company that manufactures solar cells.
03.11.2008	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed the dedication of new facilities at the Toledo Shipyards, made possible in part by over $3.5 million in federal support secured by the Congresswoman. "Today, we congratulate the partnership of Ironhead Marine, Inc. and the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority as East Toledo welcomes the return of jobs to the shipyard site and real economic development on our Great Lakes, right here at the Port of Toledo," said Kaptur. "To commercial shippers and mariners, this is especially good news as Toledo, for some time the only operating full service shipyard on the lower Great Lakes, introduces state of the art facilities for its customers." Kaptur, a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, secured over $3.5 million from the Departments of Defense and Housing and Urban Development to bring new "high-bay" facilities to the East Toledo shipyard. Coupled with support from Lucas County and the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority, the funds allowed for demolition of long antiquated facilities and assisted in construction which created over 100 construction jobs and the potential for hundreds of shipbuilding and repair jobs at the Port of Toledo. "Placing emphasis on "winterizing" our shipbuilding capabilities with an enclosed high bay facility makes our shipyard a year round destination for ship repair and shipbuilding again. This giant step forward has triggered the rebirth of new shipbuilding and vessel repairs capacity on the Great Lakes, centered at Toledo, the crossroads of the Great Lakes."
03.11.2008	“Today, we congratulate the partnership of Ironhead Marine, Inc. and the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority as East Toledo welcomes the return of jobs to the shipyard site and real economic development on our Great Lakes, right here at the Port of Toledo,” said Kaptur. “To commercial shippers and mariners, this is especially good news as Toledo, for some time the only operating full service shipyard on the lower Great Lakes, introduces state of the art facilities for its customers.” Kaptur, a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, secured over $3.5 million from the Departments of Defense and Housing and Urban Development to bring new “high-bay” facilities to the East Toledo shipyard. Coupled with support from Lucas County and the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority, the funds allowed for demolition of long antiquated facilities and assisted in construction which created over 100 construction jobs and the potential for hundreds of shipbuilding and repair jobs at the Port of Toledo. “Placing emphasis on “winterizing” our shipbuilding capabilities with an enclosed high bay facility makes our shipyard a year round destination for ship repair and shipbuilding again. This giant step forward has triggered the rebirth of new shipbuilding and vessel repairs capacity on the Great Lakes, centered at Toledo, the crossroads of the Great Lakes.”
02.26.2008	“This federal award will alleviate human suffering locally,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, who last week briefed U.S. Department of Agriculture Undersecretary Nancy Montanez Johner on the emergency food shortage in Lucas County. “Donations are down at the very time when the need for food and emergency assistance is highest,” Kaptur said. “These emergency funds will help fill that gap. Our food banks and shelters are in great need of assistance.” Congresswoman Kaptur said the funds are intended to provide supplemental funding to shelters, soup kitchens, and food banks. One-month awards for rent, mortgage, and utility assistance are available. The funds also help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. A local board will advertise the availability of the funds, establish local priorities, select local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitor program compliance.
02.15.2008	Congresswoman Kaptur will welcome a high-ranking federal official to the Toledo area on Tuesday. Nancy Montanez Johner, the federal official in charge of the food stamp program and several other anti-hunger initiatives, will join Congresswoman Kaptur in a visit to the Toledo Seagate Food Bank, 526 High Street, at 1:30 p.m. Congresswoman Kaptur and Undersecretary Johner will discuss the challenges facing Northern Ohio food banks and food pantries during the economic downturn. Ms. Johner serves as Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services in the U.S. Department of Agriculture; she is one of seven undersecretaries to the Secretary of Agriculture, Ed Schaefer. She is responsible for the administration of 15 nutrition assistance programs—including WIC, school lunch and school breakfast, and commodity distribution.
02.15.2008	Nancy Montanez Johner, the federal official in charge of the food stamp program and several other anti-hunger initiatives, will join Congresswoman Kaptur in a visit to the Toledo Seagate Food Bank, 526 High Street, at 1:30 p.m. Congresswoman Kaptur and Undersecretary Johner will discuss the challenges facing Northern Ohio food banks and food pantries during the economic downturn. Ms. Johner serves as Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services in the U.S. Department of Agriculture; she is one of seven undersecretaries to the Secretary of Agriculture, Ed Schaefer. She is responsible for the administration of 15 nutrition assistance programs—including WIC, school lunch and school breakfast, and commodity distribution.
02.14.2008	“The December figures confirm that our trade deficit with China will climb by more than 10 percent this year,” Kaptur said. “The $18.8 billion December deficit with Communist China means our annual deficit with that nation will exceed a quarter of a trillion dollars for the first time in history. That means lost jobs and lost wealth in America.” The Commerce Department reported this morning that the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services for December declined to $58.8 billion, compared to $63.1 billion in November due primarily to lower oil prices. Congresswoman Kaptur noted a slight decline in the monthly trade deficit with China in December 2007 compared to the same period a year ago. “December was the only month this year when our trade deficit with China was lower than the corresponding month in 2006,” she said. The deficit with China in December was $18.8 billion, compared to $18.9 billion for the same period a year ago.
02.11.2008	Runners up were Jacquelyn Pitts, a student at Oberlin High School, and Lyon Ganun, a student at Sylvania Northview High School. “Congratulations to all the participants for their wonderful creations,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Everyone is a winner in this competition, in my opinion.” Two thousand eight marks the 25th year of the competition in the Ninth Congressional District. Honorable Mentions were awarded to Lindsay Vollmar and Micha Washington (Toledo Bowsher High School), Seth Ellis, Charity Covington and Jennifer Rolsten (Whitmer), Katie Bocian (Notre Dame Academy), and Megan McCellan (Edison High School). University of Toledo awards were received by Brandy Hammond (Toledo School for the Arts), Tyler Biddle and Amanda Ball (Toledo Waite High School), and Brianna Bergman (St. Ursula Academy), Robert Hadley (Sylvania Northview) and Natasha Smith (Bowsher). The Bowling Green State University awards were received by Scott Deca (Toledo Central Catholic High School), Elizabeth Schenk (Oregon Clay High School), Dennis Patterson (Whitmer) and Stevie Tanner (Oberlin). The Eastman & Smith award was received by Mariana Parisca (Sylvania Southview). Jurors included Murray McKay (Coordinator of Fine Arts Admissions & Promotion at BGSU), Barbara Rollins (board member, Firelands Association of the Visiting Arts), Brent Dedas (Visiting Assistant Professor in Art at UT), Linda Sattler (Bowsher High School and a former high school art teacher) and Sandy Shult (Toledo Libbey High School, graphic artist). For the Commercial Design Award, the artwork of Ms. Schenk was selected to be reproduced into glassware by Libbey, Inc. She and Mr. Kolbicz, along with 17 other students, were selected to attend a commercial design workshop hosted by Libbey: Natasha Smith, Abigail Bischoff, Kelsey Wallette, Samantha Meacham, Stephanie Stover, Mica Washington and Kelly Wawrzyniak (Bowsher students), Heather Klatt (Clay), Megan McClellan (Edison), Aleila McCulloch (Toledo Rogers High School), Brianna Bergman (St. Ursula), Katherine Dunne (Sylvania Northview), Mariana Parisca (Sylvania Southview), Amanda Ball and Sarah Halcomb (Waite), and Logan Hamel and Kaela Mason (Whitmer). The students’ artwork will be displayed in the lobby of Fifth Third Center at One Seagate through Feb. 24 before traveling to Oberlin College Science Center (March 3-21). A reception for participants will be held on Sunday, March 9 (1-3 p.m.) in Oberlin. The competition was sponsored by Congresswoman Kaptur in connection with the Arts Commission of Greater Toledo, the longest standing arts commission in the state of Ohio.
02.07.2008	To read more about sovereign wealth funds and our economic security, click here . It is my privilege to testify today before the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission. Please let me thank the hearing co-chairs, Chairman Larry Wortzel and Commissioner Patrick Molloy, along with the rest of the Commission, for this opportunity to address the increasingly-important topic of sovereign wealth funds and their impact on America’s national interest. Please let me begin with a real story from a senior citizen from our Ohio district who this past week told me about her family’s plight. She and her elderly husband live frugally on Social Security. Sadly, their married son’s wife died recently. Moreover, he has lost his job with two children to support. So the grandparents are doing their best to help their son get through difficult times. In wondering where good jobs were to come from, she lamented how America had transformed into a totally different place from when she and her husband were working. She said, “Marcy, our country doesn’t belong to us anymore.” It is refreshing that there is a body here on Capitol Hill investigating the explosion of foreign government investment into our economy. This is an issue not only central to U.S.-China relations, but also to our relationships with a number of other countries. China is not the only country to invest its surplus savings into our cash-short banks and financial institutions. As America becomes more debt-laden and faces recession, oil-producing countries and other Asian countries with which we already have staggering trade deficits like Japan, Russia, Singapore, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates, among others, contribute more and more to this trend. These funds are the latest symptom of a decades-long problem. When I first arrived in Congress, I pointed out (and fought against, to no avail) the growing trend of foreign purchases of U.S. treasury securities. In 1983, the percentage of foreign-held debt was less than 17%. But by 2006, that figure rose to 54%. To date, your Commission has focused on issues relating directly to Chinese-American policy, and China’s financial maneuvers certainly present a large threat to American economic security. However, I believe this issue is so important it must be viewed through a larger lens. As my old professor at Harvard Business School used to admonish, “If you want to know the way the world operates, follow the cash.” These funds have existed for decades. Yet the term “sovereign wealth fund” has only recently entered the public’s vocabulary as our sovereignty and economic ownership slip out of our grasp. These funds, enriched beyond imagination by U.S. dollars from foreign imports such as petroleum, have swooped in only too happily to “rescue” Wall Street, investment houses, and banks that are faltering as a result of the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the very flawed trade models, like China PNTR, that are trademarks of American economic policy. The power of petroleum is obvious on the chart I included, which shows that among ten of the largest sovereign wealth funds, 69% of these assets exist in funds financed by oil revenue. To prop up Wall Street, Chinese funds recently invested $5 billion in Morgan Stanley and $3 million in Barclays. Citigroup just accepted $22 billion in buyouts, including a significant amount of money from Singaporean, Kuwaiti, and Abu Dhabi funds. Merrill Lynch sold stake to these funds when the governments of Korea, Kuwait, and Singapore contributed to a buyout. Mr. Lou Jiwei, the head of China Investment Corporation, China’s $200 billion sovereign wealth fund, claimed last week in the New York Times that the Chinese government, through his fund, is focused more on investments in portfolios than in individual companies. He did not rule out making direct investments, as in the case of Morgan Stanley I mentioned earlier. He said, “If there is a big fat rabbit, we will also shoot it. Some people will say we were shot by Morgan Stanley. But who knows?” Think about that statement. “If there is a big fat rabbit, we will also shoot it.” Mr. Lou Jiwei fancies himself to be a big game hunter, to be sure. He’s not content with small game. Oh, no. He loves to shoot big, fat targets. Targets such as Morgan Stanley and Blackstone. He certainly has plenty of ammunition: $1.4 trillion in foreign reserves. The policy question for us is whether the United States will require him to buy a hunting license. Will we regulate Mr. Jiwei’s hunting by declaring a season and a bag limit? Will we require background checks before he buys a gun to hunt his prey? And what if Mr. Jiwei’s acquisitions threaten U.S. security interests in products, processes, or intellectual property? Will we sit back and let the Lou Jiweis of the world fire at will, claiming our assets and extirpating our businesses? Instead of rescuing our economy, these investments only deepen America’s insecurity, forcing the U.S. further into debt to foreign interests. More often than not, these deals are presented as purely financial when they are, in fact, political and strategic. The funds suffer from a severe lack of transparency, especially with regard to governance. So many are run by undemocratic governments with powerful strategic objectives. I included with this testimony a graph plotting the funds according to their level of transparency and style of investment approach. There is the possibility that ulterior motives exist for these countries, and that these financial investments are aimed at strategic results. For those who think there should be little government involvement in the workings of our markets, it should be obvious that foreign government meddling and takeovers of private enterprise are even more dangerous—some would say socialistic. America needs to reclaim our economic independence and security while retaining the integrity of our markets to remain prosperous. What should we do about these threats? First, secure transparency. Then, analyze. And if there is the potential for destructive practices, regulate. We must require disclosure and increased transparency of all sovereign wealth fund bids. Stake-holders, stock-holders, and the government need to ask: Who operates these funds? How big are they? Are they audited? If so, by whom? What are their investment policies? What are their true motives? Some funds are willingly transparent, like Norway’s, so there does exist a standard for how much information can and should be disclosed. Others, like the Chinese funds that bring us here today, obscure their investment strategies, and have unconventional investment patterns. That brings to light my second concern—political motives. It is not just the rogue academics raising the alarm. In a cover story last month, the Economist reported that “China and South Korea want returns—and possibly access to markets, ideas and technology.” In addition to requiring transparency, in order to see how immense this problem has grown, Congress needs also to examine regulation. This would normally fall to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, also known as CFIUS, but there are questions as to how reliable this body is. Beyond methodological objections regarding how well these funds can be tested by existing models, many of us have expressed concern that the Committee is governed by the skewed interests of those involved in approving these transactions. President Bush recently signed an executive order transferring his own power to the Treasury department to authorize or reject foreign takeovers of American companies. But officials from the Defense Department, the Department of Justice, and the Department of Homeland Security objected to the order over the past few months saying it served business interests over security interests. It allows Wall Street to continue to profit at the expense of national security. Furthermore, President Bush stripped from this order the provision that required the Committee to “monitor the effects of foreign investment in the United States.” Congress needs to reassert our power and pass legislation that maintains as presidential the authority to approve or reject these deals. I have drafted legislation to do exactly that. Congress must require the Administration to report back in order to prevent the president from delegating this important national security authority to any cabinet officer or executive agency. The U.S. government always needs to act in the name of national security before private interests. After all, our Congressional oath requires us to “support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign or domestic.” Some might object to increased government involvement in the economy if we require transparency. But American government involvement is preferable to foreign government involvement. We need to prioritize the security of our citizens, businesses, and economy as a whole. Our national security is far more important than Wall Street’s interests and more important than doling out U.S. liberty in order to rescue reckless megabanks from their own bad investment decisions. Furthermore, our nation should regulate a savings policy direction and reject the debt path Wall Street is imposing on Main Street. Our economy is suffering enough as it is. Our federal government should be working to rebuild our economy, create new jobs, and lessen our dependence on foreign oil. Instead, it is allowing foreign governments to control greater and greater shares of our economy. Let’s require transparency, balance the approval process for foreign investments, and reclaim our national security from sovereign wealth funds. The U.S. government must stand up for the American people in the face of this opaque and increasingly-powerful threat to our sovereignty.
02.05.2008	“I appreciate the decision by the National Park Service to place a high priority on emergency repairs to the monument, especially in a very difficult fiscal environment,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “The Perry Victory and International Peace Memorial is an important site that preserves our heritage as a nation.” The monument column was closed to the public in June 2006 when a quarter-ton piece of granite fell from the 317-foot level and shattered the upper level where it landed. No one was injured, but the monument column was closed for slightly more than two months. A subsequent report revealed moisture in the column was causing the concrete to crack. The monument column was reopened to the public in August 2006, but only on its north face. A security fence was installed. The National Park Service spent $1 million to further investigate the structure last summer and undertook preservation of seven fascia stone panels and temporary waterproofing measures. There will be no public access to the observation deck of the monument while the repair project is underway. The Perry Victory and International Peace Memorial commemorates the victory of Commodore O.H. Perry over the British during the Battle of Lake Erie in September 1813—a seminal battle in the War of 1812. Construction on the 352-foot granite monument (the largest Greek Doric column in the world) began in 1912 and was completed in 1915. The memorial was established as a unit of the National Park Service by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936.
02.04.2008	The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), sometimes called the Earned Income Credit, is a refundable federal income tax credit for low-income working families and individuals. Eligible filers usually end up with more money in their pockets, either by reducing the amount of tax they owe or providing them with a refund when the EITC exceeds the amount of taxes owed. Especially in these tough economic times, working people and families who qualify for the EITC should take advantage of this important tax credit. If you think you might be eligible for the EITC, or if you know someone else who might qualify, call my office or get more information from the Internal Revenue Service web site. Here are some frequently asked questions about the Earned Income Tax Credit from the IRS:Question: Who can claim the credit? Answer: To claim the EITC on your tax return, you must meet all of the following rules:Must have a valid Social Security number. You must have earned income from employment or from self-employment. Your filing status cannot be married, filing separately. You must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien all year, or a nonresident alien married to a U.S. citizen or resident alien and filing a joint return. You cannot be a qualifying child of a nother person. If you do not have a qualifying child you must: be age 25 but under 65 at the end of the year; live in the United States for more than half the year; and, no qualify as a dependent of another person. Cannot file Form 2555 or 2555-EZ (related to foreign earned income) You must meet the EITC thresholds and limitations Question: What if I was denied the EITC last year? Answer: If your EITC for any year after 1996 was denied or reduced for any reason other than a math or clerical error, you must attach a completed Form 8862, Invitation to Claim Earned Income Credit After Disallowance to your next tax return to claim the EITC. You must also qualify to claim the EIC by meeting all the rules described in Publication 596. However, do not file Form 8862 if either (1) or (2) below is true. 1. After your EITC was reduced or disallowed in the earlier year:You filed Form 8862 (or other doc8uments) and your EITC was then allowed, and Your EITC has not been reduced or disallowed again for any reason other than a math or clerical error. 2. You are taking the EITC without a qualifying child and the only reason your EITC was reduced or disallowed in the earlier year was because the IRS determined that a child listed in the Schedule EITC was not your qualifying child. Also, do not file Form 8862 or take the EITC for:2 years after there was a final determination that your EITC was reduced or disallowed due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EITC rules, or 10 years after there was a final determination that your EITC was reduced or disallowed due to fraud. Question: Who is a qualifying child? Answer: Your child is a qualifying child if your child meets three tests. The three tests are: (1) Relationship (2) Age (3) Residency.Relationship To be your qualifying child, a child must be your: Son, daughter, stepchild, eligible foster child, or a descendant (for example, your grandchild) of any of them, or Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, stepsister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your niece or nephew). Definitions to clarify the relationship test. Adopted child: An adopted child is always treated as your own child. The term “adopted child” includes a child who was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption. Eligible Foster Child. A person is your eligible foster child if the child is placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction. Age. Your child must be: (1) Under age 19 at the end of the year; (2) Permanently and totally disabled at any time during the year, regardless of age. Residency Test. Your child must have lived with you in the United States for more than half of the year. See (IRS) Publications 596 and 501 for more details. Question: Who is an eligible foster child? Answer: An eligible foster child is an individual who is placed with you by an by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.Question: What is Earned Income? Answer: Earned income includes all the taxable income and wages you get from working. There are two ways to get earned income: (1) You work for someone who pays you, or; (2) You work in a business you own. Taxable earned income includes: wages, salaries, and tips; union strike benefits; long-term disability benefits received prior to minimum retirement age; net earnings from self-employment. [Non-taxable combat pay election. You can elect to have your nontaxable combat pay included in earned income for the earned income credit. The amount of your nontaxable combat pay should be shown on your Form W-2, in box 12, with code Q.]Question: How do I figure my credit? Answer: Once you know that you qualify for the EITC, you need to know how to figure the amount of the credit. You have two choices of how to figure the credit: (1) Have the IRS figure the credit for you. If you would like the IRS to do this, see Publication 596, or (2) Figure the credit yourself. To do this you must use the Earned Income Credit Worksheet (EIC Worksheet) in the instruction booklet for Form 1040, From 1040A, or Form 1040EZ, and the Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table in the instruction booklet, or use the EITC Assistant Tool online. For more information, see Chapter 4, Figuring and Claiming the EITC, in Publication 596.Question: How can I get EITC in my paycheck? Answer: You may prefer to get some of next year’s EITC throughout the year, rather than wait and get EITC after you file your tax return. To get EITC, complete Form W-5 and give the lower part of the form to your employer. Keep the top part for your records. Question: What if I am prohibited from claiming the EITC for a period of years? Answer: If your EITC for any year after 1996 was denied and it was determined that your error was due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EITC rules, then you cannot claim the EITC for the next 2 years. If your error was due to fraud, then you cannot claim the EITC for the next 10 years. The date on which your EITC was denied and the date on which you file your tax return affects the years for which you are prohibited from claiming the EITC.
02.04.2008	Especially in these tough economic times, working people and families who qualify for the EITC should take advantage of this important tax credit. If you think you might be eligible for the EITC, or if you know someone else who might qualify, call my office or get more information from the Internal Revenue Service web site. Here are some frequently asked questions about the Earned Income Tax Credit from the IRS:Question: Who can claim the credit? Answer: To claim the EITC on your tax return, you must meet all of the following rules:Must have a valid Social Security number. You must have earned income from employment or from self-employment. Your filing status cannot be married, filing separately. You must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien all year, or a nonresident alien married to a U.S. citizen or resident alien and filing a joint return. You cannot be a qualifying child of a nother person. If you do not have a qualifying child you must: be age 25 but under 65 at the end of the year; live in the United States for more than half the year; and, no qualify as a dependent of another person. Cannot file Form 2555 or 2555-EZ (related to foreign earned income) You must meet the EITC thresholds and limitations Question: What if I was denied the EITC last year? Answer: If your EITC for any year after 1996 was denied or reduced for any reason other than a math or clerical error, you must attach a completed Form 8862, Invitation to Claim Earned Income Credit After Disallowance to your next tax return to claim the EITC. You must also qualify to claim the EIC by meeting all the rules described in Publication 596. However, do not file Form 8862 if either (1) or (2) below is true. 1. After your EITC was reduced or disallowed in the earlier year:You filed Form 8862 (or other doc8uments) and your EITC was then allowed, and Your EITC has not been reduced or disallowed again for any reason other than a math or clerical error. 2. You are taking the EITC without a qualifying child and the only reason your EITC was reduced or disallowed in the earlier year was because the IRS determined that a child listed in the Schedule EITC was not your qualifying child. Also, do not file Form 8862 or take the EITC for:2 years after there was a final determination that your EITC was reduced or disallowed due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EITC rules, or 10 years after there was a final determination that your EITC was reduced or disallowed due to fraud. Question: Who is a qualifying child? Answer: Your child is a qualifying child if your child meets three tests. The three tests are: (1) Relationship (2) Age (3) Residency.Relationship To be your qualifying child, a child must be your: Son, daughter, stepchild, eligible foster child, or a descendant (for example, your grandchild) of any of them, or Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, stepsister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your niece or nephew). Definitions to clarify the relationship test. Adopted child: An adopted child is always treated as your own child. The term “adopted child” includes a child who was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption. Eligible Foster Child. A person is your eligible foster child if the child is placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction. Age. Your child must be: (1) Under age 19 at the end of the year; (2) Permanently and totally disabled at any time during the year, regardless of age. Residency Test. Your child must have lived with you in the United States for more than half of the year. See (IRS) Publications 596 and 501 for more details. Question: Who is an eligible foster child? Answer: An eligible foster child is an individual who is placed with you by an by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.Question: What is Earned Income? Answer: Earned income includes all the taxable income and wages you get from working. There are two ways to get earned income: (1) You work for someone who pays you, or; (2) You work in a business you own. Taxable earned income includes: wages, salaries, and tips; union strike benefits; long-term disability benefits received prior to minimum retirement age; net earnings from self-employment. [Non-taxable combat pay election. You can elect to have your nontaxable combat pay included in earned income for the earned income credit. The amount of your nontaxable combat pay should be shown on your Form W-2, in box 12, with code Q.]Question: How do I figure my credit? Answer: Once you know that you qualify for the EITC, you need to know how to figure the amount of the credit. You have two choices of how to figure the credit: (1) Have the IRS figure the credit for you. If you would like the IRS to do this, see Publication 596, or (2) Figure the credit yourself. To do this you must use the Earned Income Credit Worksheet (EIC Worksheet) in the instruction booklet for Form 1040, From 1040A, or Form 1040EZ, and the Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table in the instruction booklet, or use the EITC Assistant Tool online. For more information, see Chapter 4, Figuring and Claiming the EITC, in Publication 596.Question: How can I get EITC in my paycheck? Answer: You may prefer to get some of next year’s EITC throughout the year, rather than wait and get EITC after you file your tax return. To get EITC, complete Form W-5 and give the lower part of the form to your employer. Keep the top part for your records. Question: What if I am prohibited from claiming the EITC for a period of years? Answer: If your EITC for any year after 1996 was denied and it was determined that your error was due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EITC rules, then you cannot claim the EITC for the next 2 years. If your error was due to fraud, then you cannot claim the EITC for the next 10 years. The date on which your EITC was denied and the date on which you file your tax return affects the years for which you are prohibited from claiming the EITC.
01.29.2008	Delivering on her promise to work with the North Toledo community after disturbances there in 2005, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur this morning visited the site of the former Leverette Junior High to bring good news for youth recreation and academic enhancement in the area. Kaptur announced that, through her efforts, the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) will provide $1 million to assist the Toledo Lucas County Police Athletic League in establishing its new home at the former Leverette gym. North Toledo's Deverell Flowers talks about the difference the Police Athletic League made in his life. "A special thanks to our men and women in blue for helping me to advance a proposal for additional resources and for making a personal commitment to bettering the lives of young people in North Toledo and throughout our community," said Kaptur. "Our Police Athletic League has risen to the call again and I commend its Board, all of the officers who give of their time, and our citizens who have also stepped up to help PAL raise funds from the local private sector, making this a true community partnership for the betterment of our youth," added Kaptur. During public meetings following the 2005 incident, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur listened to people in the community, and looked for positive alternatives for young people. The Toledo-Lucas County Police Athletic League (PAL) was among those who spoke with Kaptur about their community-wide programs for youth. Kaptur, seeing the effort as a model for engaging young people, used her position on the House Appropriations Committee to direct funding to PAL through DoJ's budget. The Police Athletic League's goal is to prevent juvenile violence and crime by providing athletic, recreational and educational opportunities to youth in an environment that builds trust and understanding between police officers and youth. Currently, PAL offers baseball, basketball, young women's mentoring and tutoring programs, and camping. An agreement between the Toledo Public Schools and PAL will provide access to the gym at the former Leverette Junior High School and allow the group to regularize programming for baseball, softball, basketball and to potentially revive youth boxing as well as provide space for academic tutoring. When the former school is no longer needed for swing space in the system's reconstruction program, the school will be removed and acreage for sports fields will result. PAL will use the federal funds to hire a Program Manager and pay tutors on an hourly basis as well as to purchase equipment including computers for tutoring, sports equipment, camping supplies and to assist with rent and utilities.
01.29.2008	I am truly disappointed by the President’s emphasis on fixing the economy using a flawed trade model and tired, old economic strategies. The President advocates the same job-killing trade policies that have outsourced good jobs for decades. If he wants to turn the American economy around, he should not be encouraging more free trade agreements, but working with Congress to develop a new trade model that creates jobs and benefits those who work hardest building a stronger America. The President again noted that we must reduce our dependence on oil. During his Administration, our nation is importing a billion more barrels of oil annually. If his previous policies, both at home and abroad, are any indication, America will suffer further job loss due to this unhealthy addiction to imported oil, and our national security will continue to erode in the name of energy. To address our oil dependency, America must invest with dispatch in alternative, domestic forms of energy. It is time our nation rids itself of its strategically destructive ties to undemocratic and brutal oil regimes. I was honored to be joined tonight by a constituent, Charles Herndon, an artist from Kelleys Island, Ohio. This heroic man is responsible for saving the life of a young boy in Lake Erie after a tragic plane crash last year. Mr. Herndon represents the very essence of America—one that is selfless, protecting, and courageous. This is a man who has saved lives and has selflessly earned his place in the people’s House this evening.
01.28.2008	North Toledo's Deverell Flowers talks about the difference the Police Athletic League made in his life. "A special thanks to our men and women in blue for helping me to advance a proposal for additional resources and for making a personal commitment to bettering the lives of young people in North Toledo and throughout our community," said Kaptur. "Our Police Athletic League has risen to the call again and I commend its Board, all of the officers who give of their time, and our citizens who have also stepped up to help PAL raise funds from the local private sector, making this a true community partnership for the betterment of our youth," added Kaptur. During public meetings following the 2005 incident, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur listened to people in the community, and looked for positive alternatives for young people. The Toledo-Lucas County Police Athletic League (PAL) was among those who spoke with Kaptur about their community-wide programs for youth. Kaptur, seeing the effort as a model for engaging young people, used her position on the House Appropriations Committee to direct funding to PAL through DoJ's budget. The Police Athletic League's goal is to prevent juvenile violence and crime by providing athletic, recreational and educational opportunities to youth in an environment that builds trust and understanding between police officers and youth. Currently, PAL offers baseball, basketball, young women's mentoring and tutoring programs, and camping. An agreement between the Toledo Public Schools and PAL will provide access to the gym at the former Leverette Junior High School and allow the group to regularize programming for baseball, softball, basketball and to potentially revive youth boxing as well as provide space for academic tutoring. When the former school is no longer needed for swing space in the system's reconstruction program, the school will be removed and acreage for sports fields will result. PAL will use the federal funds to hire a Program Manager and pay tutors on an hourly basis as well as to purchase equipment including computers for tutoring, sports equipment, camping supplies and to assist with rent and utilities.
01.18.2008	Rising unemployment, rising food, fuel, and health care costs, the home foreclosure crisis, rising budget and trade deficits --all demand attention and action. A short term fiscal stimulus that reaches America's workers, families, and communities is a step in the right direction. To build our nation forward at home again, and stem the outsourcing of living wage jobs, requires more than a short-term fix. Our goal must be to invest here at home, and to export more than we import to recapture dollars forfeited abroad. I have suggested several ideas be incorporated into the short-term bill that will meet immediate needs while also investing in these longer-term objectives. Investing in our roads and community infrastructure creates jobs and improved assets. Clean energy applications will create jobs and move our nation toward energy independence again. Immediate help in the form of food for our depleted food pantries and food kitchens is essential. We must work quickly and precisely to address the fears of the American people. While details of the plan are still being worked out, I look forward to working with Speaker Pelosi and the President to accelerate the economy.
01.17.2008	In prepared remarks, Congresswoman Kaptur said, “America is facing an economic situation that has the potential to be catastrophic. Because of the poor judgment and intense greed of a few banks, companies, organizations, and, indeed, politicians, the average American has been thrust into economic insecurity. The sub-prime mortgage crisis, perpetuated by profit-hungry lenders and those who traded these loans, contributed heavily to the problems we are discussing today. But the problem is larger than just the housing bubble—the problem lies in the securitized culture of lending and in the inherent flaws of the global finance system in its current incarnation.” Congresswoman Kaptur questioned Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke during his appearance on Capitol Hill to testify to the Budget Committee. Congresswoman Kaptur said she is encouraged that Congress and the Federal Reserve “have recognized the anguish of the American people, who are facing dire circumstances, soaring inflation, and a possibly bleak economic outlook. I hope that as a result of this hearing, the steps Congress can take to rectify this situation will become more obvious, and that Congress can work closely with the Fed to effectively stimulate the economy in the short term, and to regain American financial security in the long term.” Congresswoman Kaptur said her constituents are suffering from the economic downturn not only due to rising foreclosure rates—Ohio ranks among the top three states for foreclosures—but a more general economic downturn, or, dare I say it, recession, and must watch while Wall Street and even the American government parcel off our national security and sell it to the highest bidder. “I believe we are losing our independence as a country,” Congresswoman Kaptur said earlier in the day on C-SPAN’s Washington Journal. “As a result of faulty judgment, bad planning, and corporate greed, the mortgage crisis has taken a huge chunk from Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan, and the rest of Wall Street. Now, these banks are turning to Saudi princes, Chinese banks, and the government of Singapore to come to their aid. “ Congresswoman Kaptur said an economic stimulus package should focus on infrastructure projects to create jobs and consumer spending on American products. Congresswoman Kaptur’s appearance on Washington Journal can be seen on the C-SPAN home page.
01.11.2008	"The United States cannot continue to watch as our nation bleeds capital, jobs, and security," Kaptur said. "The small steps our nation is taking are barely enough to slow the bleeding, and not nearly enough to cure the injury. America needs a new trade policy." The surge in deficit, blamed on rising oil prices and decreases in exports, is a symptom of a flawed trade policy, Kaptur added, noting that Congress has yet to consider any legislation that reforms U.S. trade policy. "With each increase in the US trade deficit Americans lose more freedom: freedom to be independent, freedom to be self sufficient, freedom from creditors, freedom of opportunity and of work, freedom to make the most of their lives, and their children's futures," Kaptur said. Kaptur is the sponsor of H.R. 169 which requires the President, if in three consecutive calendar years the United States has a trade deficit with another country of $10 billion or more, to take the necessary steps to create a trading relationship that would eliminate or substantially reduce that trade deficit by entering into an agreement with that country. The bill, if passed, would stop the bleeding of jobs, of opportunity, of outsourced production, and of borrowed credit. Congressional leadership has not yet acted on the bill.
01.09.2008	Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur welcomed the release of $2.2 million in federal funds by the U.S. Department of Labor to help in cleanup and recovery efforts in seven Ohio counties that were hit by severe flooding earlier this year. The funds will be used to create temporary jobs to repair property damage and also clean and reconstruct waterways that were affected by the floods. At the same time, Congresswoman Kaptur repeated her call for a comprehensive approach to watershed issues in the region. “We live in what can be called the ‘water kingdom’ of Ohio,” Kaptur said. “Our water resources are a tremendous asset, but they must be managed in a comprehensive manner. Earlier this year in Findlay, I urged (FEMA) Secretary Michael Chertoff to take the lead in bringing together all the stakeholders in the region and I repeat that message again today. ”Without a comprehensive management plan for the Maumee River basin, the flooding that devastated Hancock, Allen and other counties will be repeated in years to come.” Congresswoman Kaptur spearheaded creation of the Western Lake Erie Basin (WLEB) Partnership in 2005 as a collaborative effort between the Natural Resources Conservation Service (an arm of the U.S. Department of Agriculture), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and appropriate state and local agencies. A partnership charter was signed in March 2006 among 14 representative agencies and organizations with common interest: enhancing multi-purpose projects to improve land and water resource management in the basin and promoting a healthy, productive watershed. In the wake of last summer’s devastating floods, FEMA in September declared Allen, Crawford, Hancock, Hardin, Putnam, Richland and Wyandot counties eligible for public assistance. Three of those countries—Hancock, Putnam and Crawford—will be eligible for assistance from the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services as a result of the $2.2 million award announced today. Workers who were affected by the summer storms will be eligible for temporary jobs on cleanup and reconstruction of destroyed waterways and lands within the affected communities. Cleanup projects are also being coordinated with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to prevent destabilization of streambanks and waterways that would accelerate soil erosion in the farm-rich area of northwestern Ohio.
01.09.2008	At the same time, Congresswoman Kaptur repeated her call for a comprehensive approach to watershed issues in the region. “We live in what can be called the ‘water kingdom’ of Ohio,” Kaptur said. “Our water resources are a tremendous asset, but they must be managed in a comprehensive manner. Earlier this year in Findlay, I urged (FEMA) Secretary Michael Chertoff to take the lead in bringing together all the stakeholders in the region and I repeat that message again today. ”Without a comprehensive management plan for the Maumee River basin, the flooding that devastated Hancock, Allen and other counties will be repeated in years to come.” Congresswoman Kaptur spearheaded creation of the Western Lake Erie Basin (WLEB) Partnership in 2005 as a collaborative effort between the Natural Resources Conservation Service (an arm of the U.S. Department of Agriculture), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and appropriate state and local agencies. A partnership charter was signed in March 2006 among 14 representative agencies and organizations with common interest: enhancing multi-purpose projects to improve land and water resource management in the basin and promoting a healthy, productive watershed. In the wake of last summer’s devastating floods, FEMA in September declared Allen, Crawford, Hancock, Hardin, Putnam, Richland and Wyandot counties eligible for public assistance. Three of those countries—Hancock, Putnam and Crawford—will be eligible for assistance from the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services as a result of the $2.2 million award announced today. Workers who were affected by the summer storms will be eligible for temporary jobs on cleanup and reconstruction of destroyed waterways and lands within the affected communities. Cleanup projects are also being coordinated with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to prevent destabilization of streambanks and waterways that would accelerate soil erosion in the farm-rich area of northwestern Ohio.
01.03.2008	NAFTA, which was approved more than 14 years ago but fully implemented only with the start of 2008, will result in even greater economic hardship in coming months, according to Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “NAFTA has had a devastating, negative impact on jobs in America—especially in the manufacturing sector—and an equally damaging impact on the agricultural sector in Mexico,” said Kaptur. “We have seen more than one million jobs leave the United States as a result of NAFTA—and that is a conservative estimate. Unless governments quit this race to the bottom and develop a more people-centered balanced approach to trade, opposition to NAFTA and globalization will continue to rise to new levels throughout the United States and the entire hemisphere.” Full implementation of NAFTA took effect yesterday when the United States and Mexico eliminated remaining restrictions on agricultural exports, including corn, dry edible beans, nonfat dry milk and high fructose corn syrup from the U.S. as well as sugar and certain horticultural products from Mexico. Congresswoman Kaptur and three House colleagues—Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), Hilda Solis (D-California) and Linda Sanchez (D-California) say full implementation will mean more social dislocation in Mexico and greater immigration to the United States. In a letter to President Felipe Calderon, Congresswoman Kaptur and her colleagues urged the Mexican government “to protect Mexican communities and the livelihoods of thousands of white corn and bean farmers.” The U.S. representatives threw their weight behind a proposal by former Mexican Senator Victor Suarez and family farm organizations in Mexico to regulate the trade of white corn and beans in order to protect internal production and rural employment and stem the migration of displaced farmers. “We are concerned...for the economic and social wellbeing of the Mexican people,” the four Members wrote in the letter to President Calderon. “(T)he zeroing out of tariffs on white corn and beans is sure to cause further destruction to the most vulnerable sectors of the Mexican economy ... We expect more of what we have seen in the earlier phases of NAFTA: more destitution and desperation of campesinos facing very few options, leading to a stronger drug trade and more migration.” Congresswoman Kaptur has been a consistent critic of the executive agreement that was signed by U.S. President Bill Clinton, Mexican President Carlos Salinas, and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and approved by the U.S. Congress in 1993. She is author of the NAFTA Accountability Act, which would require the President to withdraw the U.S. from the trade agreement unless certain benchmarks were met. Most of the benchmarks were initially promised by proponents of the agreement, including gains in U.S. jobs and living standards, increased U.S. domestic manufacturing, stronger health and environmental standards, especially with respect to food imports, decreased flow of illegal drugs from Mexico and Canada, and the guarantee of Mexican democracy and human rights. Kaptur said Acting U.S. Agriculture Secretary Chuck Conner reflected “alarming insensitivity to displaced workers in all three countries” yesterday when he described NAFTA as “a remarkable success story.” The truth is that NAFTA turned an American trade surplus into a large and growing trade deficit with Mexico,” Kaptur said. “The red ink started flowing a year after NAFTA took effect and has increased steadily over the past 14 years. Last year’s trade deficit with Mexico exceeded $64 billion, and 2007 will set yet another new record, probably more than $70 billion in the red.”
01.03.2008	“NAFTA has had a devastating, negative impact on jobs in America—especially in the manufacturing sector—and an equally damaging impact on the agricultural sector in Mexico,” said Kaptur. “We have seen more than one million jobs leave the United States as a result of NAFTA—and that is a conservative estimate. Unless governments quit this race to the bottom and develop a more people-centered balanced approach to trade, opposition to NAFTA and globalization will continue to rise to new levels throughout the United States and the entire hemisphere.” Full implementation of NAFTA took effect yesterday when the United States and Mexico eliminated remaining restrictions on agricultural exports, including corn, dry edible beans, nonfat dry milk and high fructose corn syrup from the U.S. as well as sugar and certain horticultural products from Mexico. Congresswoman Kaptur and three House colleagues—Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), Hilda Solis (D-California) and Linda Sanchez (D-California) say full implementation will mean more social dislocation in Mexico and greater immigration to the United States. In a letter to President Felipe Calderon, Congresswoman Kaptur and her colleagues urged the Mexican government “to protect Mexican communities and the livelihoods of thousands of white corn and bean farmers.” The U.S. representatives threw their weight behind a proposal by former Mexican Senator Victor Suarez and family farm organizations in Mexico to regulate the trade of white corn and beans in order to protect internal production and rural employment and stem the migration of displaced farmers. “We are concerned...for the economic and social wellbeing of the Mexican people,” the four Members wrote in the letter to President Calderon. “(T)he zeroing out of tariffs on white corn and beans is sure to cause further destruction to the most vulnerable sectors of the Mexican economy ... We expect more of what we have seen in the earlier phases of NAFTA: more destitution and desperation of campesinos facing very few options, leading to a stronger drug trade and more migration.” Congresswoman Kaptur has been a consistent critic of the executive agreement that was signed by U.S. President Bill Clinton, Mexican President Carlos Salinas, and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and approved by the U.S. Congress in 1993. She is author of the NAFTA Accountability Act, which would require the President to withdraw the U.S. from the trade agreement unless certain benchmarks were met. Most of the benchmarks were initially promised by proponents of the agreement, including gains in U.S. jobs and living standards, increased U.S. domestic manufacturing, stronger health and environmental standards, especially with respect to food imports, decreased flow of illegal drugs from Mexico and Canada, and the guarantee of Mexican democracy and human rights. Kaptur said Acting U.S. Agriculture Secretary Chuck Conner reflected “alarming insensitivity to displaced workers in all three countries” yesterday when he described NAFTA as “a remarkable success story.” The truth is that NAFTA turned an American trade surplus into a large and growing trade deficit with Mexico,” Kaptur said. “The red ink started flowing a year after NAFTA took effect and has increased steadily over the past 14 years. Last year’s trade deficit with Mexico exceeded $64 billion, and 2007 will set yet another new record, probably more than $70 billion in the red.”
01.02.2008	The increases will apply to three key programs: disability compensation, pension, and survivors' benefits. Disability compensation: tax-free payments generally range from $117 to $2,527 per month, depending on the degree of disability. The most severely injured veterans could receive up to $7,232 in special payments per month. Pension disability: the maximum annual rate for permanently and totally disabled veterans or veterans over age 65 can range from $11,181 to $18,654, based on household income and whether the veteran needs help with activities for daily living. Survivors benefits: the 2.3 percent increase also applies to survivors of veterans who died in service or from a service-connected disability. Dependency and indemnity compensation survivors' monthly benefit payments range from $1,091 to $2,499. Survivors of wartime veterans receiving death pension are also entitled to an increase. The maximum payment for a surviving spouse can range from $7,498 to $11,985 per year. Benefits under this program are intended to bring an eligible spouse's income to a level established by law. Under each benefit program, additional allowances may be payable for helpless, minor or school age children. For more information about VA benefits and services, call our office or visit the VA web site at www.va.gov.
12.27.2007	Her assassination reminds us that political succession in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan has been undermined again by a growing power struggle, with escalating violence between military, religious, and constitutionalist factions. This has been the case since Pakistan's attempts to operationalize constitutional government that began in 1973. As did her father before her, Benazir Bhutto has joined in martyrdom untold thousands of her countrymen who have died in the collision between military control and religious extremism. Prime Minister Bhutto knew her death by political opponents was a great likelihood. Her extraordinary courage in returning to Pakistan to try to piece together a coalition government is worthy of deep respect. Let us hope that her example will serve to light the way for Pakistan to join the community of nations in adopting the rule of law. As we mourn the loss of her life by such dastardly perpetrators, Americans should remind ourselves how fragile and precious are the ideals of our own form of government by self rule. Let all Americans rededicate ourselves to civil society with secular rule in which our military remains under civilian control and in which no religion is the dominant factor in public affairs.
12.19.2007	"Not a moment too soon," Kaptur said, "Congress finally has taken action on the energy crisis that is squeezing the middle class, threatening our economy, distorting our foreign policy, and leaving us vulnerable to repressive governments that just happen to control vast oil reserves." Kaptur, a longtime proponent of alternative energy, including the solar and hydrogen research center at the University of Toledo, said the passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act means Congress is moving in the right direction on energy. "I'm still not satisfied with the pace of the effort," she said. "We need an initiative as bold as the Manhattan Project that developed the atomic bomb and as ambitious as the Apollo Project that put a man on the moon. At least this bill makes a start at reducing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil." Spurred along by a doubling of the price of gasoline since 2001, the new energy bill holds out the prospect of much-needed price relief to the American consumers and will create thousands of new jobs in the development of alternative energy. The bill will increase corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) standards for new cars and trucks to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. It will cut projected U.S. oil consumption by more than four million barrels a day by 2030 and expand American-grown biofuel production to 36 billion gallons in 2022. The improved fuel efficiency standards will save consumers an estimated $22 billion a year at the gasoline pump through 2020 (or, between $700 and $1,000 per family each year). "I was pleased that the final bill incorporated the concerns of organizations such as the United Auto Workers who were adamant about saving good-paying American jobs," Kaptur said. Building, appliance and lighting efficiency will save consumers $400 billion through 2030 and should make American products more competitive in the world market. The bill also adopts a renewable electricity standard and creates tax incentives for clean renewable and alternative energy-all of which will be paid for by repealing subsidies that are currently going to the big oil companies.
12.12.2007	Over the life of the project, the cogeneration facility is expected to save rate payers a minimum of almost $15 million and potentially as much as $40 million. This is based on projections that the methane gas from the landfill will be available for at least 20 years and perhaps as many as 35 years. The biogas-generated electricity will replace the conventional electricity at the Bay View plant which has cost the city an average of $2 million per year over the last several years. "The city and our region can lead the United States in the transition to clean, safe and renewable energy sources," stated Kaptur. "Today's milestone joins others such as the solar energy effort at the 180th Fighter Wing of the Ohio Air National Guard, multiple wind energy investigations along the Lake Erie coastline, and extensive alternative energy research at the University of Toledo to brand the Lake Erie West region as forward-thinking, innovative and committed to forging a sustainable future." "Today's announcement is well-timed," continued Kaptur. "Last week, the House passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (H.R. 6), containing alternative energy provisions that I have championed for years including a renewable fuels standard, the required incorporation of biofuels into motor fuels, and a requirement for the use of alternative fuels in the federal fleet. Between 2000 and 2006, during President Bush's term, the U.S. increased its importation of crude oil and petroleum products by almost 1 billion barrels. America must break her dangerous dependence on foreign sources of energy supply." The cogeneration facility is scheduled to come online in the first quarter of 2009. It will produce 6-7 megawatts of energy per day with a maximum capacity of 10 megawatts per day. The city anticipates generating more power than it will need at the treatment plant and plans to sell that excess power back to the grid where negotiations with Toledo Edison should result in that power being available at a better rate for other city operations. Federal funds were expended on engineering services to design the gas pipeline from the landfill and the cogeneration facility at the waste water treatment plant. The construction of the pipeline and facility will be financed through a low-interest loan to the city through OEPA and the Ohio Water Development Authority.
12.10.2007	"For nearly fourteen years, NAFTA has reneged on its promises, bringing even more poverty and job loss to communities across the continent," Kaptur said. "I join my colleagues from Maine to California in demanding a new, equitable model for free trade among free peoples." Nancy Boyda (D-KS), a leading cosponsor, added, "NAFTA is dragging down our economy, weakening our borders, and devastating our manufacturers. After fourteen years, it's time to either fix NAFTA or get the heck out of it." "Since its enactment, NAFTA has failed to deliver the economic success that it initially promised," said Duncan Hunter (R-CA). "Our growing trade deficits with Mexico and Canada, and the continued loss of American jobs provide enough evidence to indicate that NAFTA just isn't working. It is time that we accept this reality and begin renegotiating this trade agreement to better and more fairly serve America's interests." The bill notes that the U.S. has accumulated a staggering trade deficit with Mexico and Canada since the agreement's implementation, the detrimental environmental consequences, the increase in vehicle, drug, and labor traffic across borders, as well as the dramatic loss of decent jobs and living wages across North America. The bill would require the Executive Branch to certify that certain benchmarks, many that had been initially promised by proponents of the agreement, have been met by the three countries, or the President would be required to withdraw from NAFTA. These benchmarks include gains in U.S. jobs and living standards, increased U.S. domestic manufacturing, stronger health and environmental standards, especially with respect to food imports, decreased flow of illegal drugs from Mexico and Canada, and the guarantee of Mexican democracy and human freedoms. The bill is co-sponsored by Representatives Boyda, Hunter, Phil Hare (D-IL), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), Mike Michaud (D-ME), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Betty Sutton (D-OH), and Raùl Grijalva (D-AZ).
12.06.2007	Kaptur said, "In passing this bill, the House of Representatives took an important step toward moving our nation into the 21st Century. This legislation incorporates many of the alternative energy proposals that we have been debating for years." "This bill puts America on a path toward energy independence and a day when she can be free from an addiction to foreign oil," said Kaptur. The bill provides a 36 billion gallon alternative fuel requirement by 2022, significant alternative energy tax incentives and loan programs for families and businesses, a fifteen percent renewable electricity standard and real incentives for domestic automobile manufacturers to invest in new technologies for fuel efficiency. The bill creates new jobs, with investments in renewable energy incentives and research for solar, wind and biomass technologies. Ohio will benefit from the creation of good paying jobs through a commitment to biofuels, nationwide training for 3 million new "green" jobs and making small business leaders in renewable energy. Congresswoman Kaptur has introduced legislation geared to energy independence, parts of which have been incorporated in principle into the energy legislation passed today including: a renewable fuels standard, the required incorporation of biofuels into motor fuels and a requirement for the use of alternative fuels in the federal fleet.For more on the provisions of the Energy Independence and Security Act Click Here to View Congresswoman Kaptur's floor Statement
12.05.2007	Marcy Kaptur praised British Petroleum America (BP) for its historic $2.5 billion investment in the company's Toledo refining plant. The proposed expansion and modernization of the facility is predicted to bring thousands of jobs to Northwest Ohio. The announcement, a joint venture between BP and Husky Energy, lays out a plan to upgrade the Toledo facility to handle up to 170,000 barrels a day by 2015 of Canadian heavy crude oil from Husky's Alberta oil sands fields. Kaptur thanked the company for its continuing confidence in the management and skilled employees of BP's Toledo area operations, and noted that "$2.5 billion for our economy, and the resulting jobs, secures our community as a major energy producer for our nation." In a conversation with BP America Chairman Robert Malone this morning, Kaptur pledged assistance on the many environmental challenges the company will face as it develops this project. In addition, Malone and Kaptur vowed to work together to develop renewable energy sources in Northern Ohio. BP's announcement came on the same day Congress debates the Energy Independence and Security Act which would take significant steps toward energy independence and economic security. The bill, on which Congress expects to vote by the end of the week, outlines a plan to reduce dependence on foreign oil sources and lower energy costs by toughening standards for utility companies, offering incentives for green technological initiatives, and investing in scientific research. Kaptur said, "Congress has finally entered the fight for energy security, and this bill gives me hope that one day America will run on green energy, no longer leaning on unfriendly foreign governments to supply us with oil."
12.05.2007	The proposed expansion and modernization of the facility is predicted to bring thousands of jobs to Northwest Ohio. The announcement, a joint venture between BP and Husky Energy, lays out a plan to upgrade the Toledo facility to handle up to 170,000 barrels a day by 2015 of Canadian heavy crude oil from Husky's Alberta oil sands fields. Kaptur thanked the company for its continuing confidence in the management and skilled employees of BP's Toledo area operations, and noted that "$2.5 billion for our economy, and the resulting jobs, secures our community as a major energy producer for our nation." In a conversation with BP America Chairman Robert Malone this morning, Kaptur pledged assistance on the many environmental challenges the company will face as it develops this project. In addition, Malone and Kaptur vowed to work together to develop renewable energy sources in Northern Ohio. BP's announcement came on the same day Congress debates the Energy Independence and Security Act which would take significant steps toward energy independence and economic security. The bill, on which Congress expects to vote by the end of the week, outlines a plan to reduce dependence on foreign oil sources and lower energy costs by toughening standards for utility companies, offering incentives for green technological initiatives, and investing in scientific research. Kaptur said, "Congress has finally entered the fight for energy security, and this bill gives me hope that one day America will run on green energy, no longer leaning on unfriendly foreign governments to supply us with oil."
11.19.2007	Congresswoman Kaptur, who has been working with the American Red Cross for several years to establish the regional center in Toledo, noted that she has secured approximately $4.2 million in federal awards over the past several years to help attract health-related jobs to the region. “We have been focused on showing the Red Cross that Toledo was the right choice for them, especially with the development of the Science and Technology corridor,” Kaptur said. The Trustees were considering a resolution at today’s meeting to sell approximately three acres of land on health sciences campus (the former Medical University of Ohio, or MUO) to Foundation Park Investors. The investors group, in turn, would obtain three additional acres and undertake an $8.7 million project to add 15,000-20,000 square feet to the former MUO Foundation building. That building would house the Red Cross distribution center for approximately 250 hospitals in Northwest Ohio and Southeast Michigan. “The Red Cross distribution center would serve as an ‘anchor tenant’ for the Health Sciences Campus research park and UT’s science and technology corridor,” said Kaptur. “We believe the distribution center will attract other businesses and organizations to the health sciences campus. It would be an additional jewel in our medical crown.” Kaptur said the project would retain approximately 200 jobs, create new construction jobs would be created with the addition to the MUO Foundation building, and position Toledo to compete for additional jobs in the high-tech medical technology sector.
10.10.2007	Her challenge to the group, which was assembled by CIFT, was, “I want you to put together a team and work together on a vision that we can carry forward – a research horizon. I will not be satisfied until you come back to me and say “this is where we want to go.” The meeting was held September 24 at the offices of the American Maritime Officers in Toledo. It was convened and organized by the Center for Innovative Food Technology through its Northern Ohio Energy Crop Center (NOECC) that identifies and facilitates research geared toward identifying opportunities for northern Ohio organizations and institutions to participate in alternate energy projects. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss problems that confront independent regional biofuels producers and to set a research agenda to address them. Three independent regional biodiesel producers were represented at the meeting, and each discussed their operations, economic challenges that faced them, needs for technical and governmental support, and opportunities for regional producers to “level the playing field.” Representatives from other organizations and companies in the region also attended to discuss the future of the biofuels industry from their own perspectives. The Ohio Soybean Council, Ohio Department of Agriculture, The Andersons, G.A. Wintzer & Sons, Sunrise Cooperative, American Cooperative Renewable Energy, Rupp Seed Company, TARTA, and the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority also attended. Rebecca Singer, the Associate Program Director at CIFT, explained, “Our goal was to discuss the biofuels industry from as many different perspectives as possible, and this group did that very well.” She continued, “We were able to discuss production costs, feedstock pricing, processing technology, alternate fuel sources, distribution issues, and many other elements.” In addition to CIFT personnel, faculty members from The University of Toledo were in attendance. Researchers from the Department of Chemical Engineering, the Department of Plant Science, as well as from the University’s Lake Erie Center listened to the discussions. Together with CIFT, they will use the meeting to develop a list of potential projects that can help the industry regionally. This list will constitute a “roadmap” for a strategy to move the industry forward. It will be presented to the group at a future meeting. In the meantime, copies of all presentations, as well as the minutes of the meeting, will be distributed to meeting participants and interested personnel.
09.27.2007	Lt. Col. Kevin Sonnenberg from the 180th Fighter Wing was killed when his F-16 fighter plane crashed in Iraq in June. Congresswoman Kaptur secured nearly $7 million from the Department of Defense to construct the new facility which is home to the 180th FW Logistics Readiness Squadron and replaced a nearly 50 year old structure. "We are so proud of Kevin for his ultimate sacrifice and of each of the members of this unit -- so proud of the sacrifice they make everyday," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Lt. Col. Kevin Sonnenberg
09.21.2007	Also in attendance were U.S. Representative Jim Jordan, who represents the Fourth Congressional District, which includes Findlay, as well as U.S. Senators George V. Voinovich and Sherrod C. Brown and a representative of Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland. Mayor Iriti was joined by a delegation of business and community leaders from Findlay. "For years, the entire watershed lagged behind other regions in accessing federal money for managing our water resources," said Kaptur, who is serving her 13th term in office. "Now we're moving forward with the largest watershed assessment in the country, but it's still not fast enough for families and businesses that were hit by the recent floods. "Last month's disaster in Findlay and Ottawa has focused new attention on the water management issues before us in Northwest Ohio. Although I do not represent Findlay, I am fully aware the next flood could happen in Toledo or Sandusky or elsewhere in my district. Our region must speak with one voice and use this attention to our advantage." The meeting with Congresswoman Kaptur, Congressman Jordan and the two senators was organized cooperatively to hear first hand from Mayor Iriti about ongoing cleanup efforts and his attempt to organize legislative support for a comprehensive approach to flood issues. Participants focused on the task of marshaling federal funding not only for cleanup but also water management issues in a broader sense. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had proposed a flood control program for the Blanchard River watershed in 1962 that would have greatly minimized or even prevented the recent flooding. At the time, however, the political will did not exist to address the issue in a comprehensive manner. Congresswoman Kaptur secured federal funding in 1999 for the Western Lake Erie Basin study under Section 441 of the Water Resources Development Act. The study area includes a 7,200 square-mile drainage area, including the watersheds of the Maumee, Portage and Ottawa rivers. The Western Lake Erie Basin partnership was formed to provide a framework for sustainable development; the Corps of Engineers is scheduled to complete a comprehensive watershed assessment in April 2008. For more information on Maumee watershed protection efforts, visit https://www.wleb.org/
09.21.2007	Dear Friends; We come here today to honor the life in service to his state and his country of Congressman Paul Gillmor. On behalf of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, all Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, and particularly Paul's colleagues in the Ohio congressional delegation, we offer deepest our condolences to his family, dearest Karen, precious children Paul Michael, Conner and David, Linda, Julie, grandchildren and sister Dianne and relatives Brenda, Lucy and Natalie. We thank you for the sacrifices you have made so your loved one could serve the people of Ohio and the United States. Paul passed from their life serving our country as he prepared to report for duty to fulfill the solemn oath he had taken to defend our Constitution's timeless values. Paul Gillmor was content to go about his business in a quiet, methodical way. Paul was a family man, an honorable man, a veteran, and a public servant of high repute. Paul never lost touch with the common person. The small town values that made his father successful were almost second nature to Paul. He never forgot who he was and where he came from-and that is why he held elective office continuously for more than 40 years. His persevering spirit will endure. Even at a time when our House was wracked by partisanship of historic proportions, Paul was a model of bipartisan cooperation. He simply refused to judge colleagues based on their political affiliation or ideological persuasion. Old Fort, Ohio is not the type of place where one learns the ways of guerrilla warfare, and Paul refused to engage in the personal destruction of colleagues. I was going to say he was "true blue" but in today's political climate, that is not politically correct. A favorite son of Ohio, Paul's cooperative spirit held true in Washington. I was honored to work together with Paul on several issues of importance to Northern Ohio-making U.S. Route 24 safer, saving the 180th Fighter Wing at Toledo Express Airport, protecting the National Civilian Marksmanship Program at Camp Perry, and, just a week ago, helping the flood victims throughout Northern Ohio as we flew in a Blackhawk helicopter, doors open wide, from Findlay to Bucyrus and back. My last memory of Paul was when we landed, he extended his hand to me to help me climb out of the helicopter. What a gentleman, what a gentleman! His work remains unfinished. As ranking member of the Financial Services Committee, Paul was warmly regarded by Chairman Barney Frank. They were working together to address the challenges of the credit crisis when Paul left us. We as human beings find it so very, very hard to accept the limits of time on earth. We seek more, surely with those we love, we try to capture time - we attempt to order it precisely in minutes, in years, on clocks, sundials and Blackberries. Even votes in Congress are timed. On many occasions Paul Gillmor assumed the Speaker's rostrum and gaveled the final vote tally as the clock ran out. How much he enjoyed that duty. But try as we may to order time, what endures is not time but treasured moments, timeless values with which we wrap our lives. Paul's family and all the children know these moments and values: your moments together on Lake Erie, in Port Clinton, Tiffin, Columbus, Old Fort and Washington. Your moments sitting on his lap as he as his smiled over his glasses, and occasionally wrinkled his nose. Your moments telling him your dreams and asking your questions. Your moments showing you loved him, as he loved you. These priceless gifts are yours always. Your father's work was demanding and tiring. As a man of means he could led only a personal life. He chose otherwise. He was a patriot. The knowledge that Paul brought to his job will not be easily replaced. The half-century-long record of service to his community, the Fifth Congressional District, our state, and our nation-service rendered in the Armed Forces, the state legislature, and the U.S. Congress-will not soon be surpassed. There were at least two tasks he didn't complete - Port Clinton into the Fifth and being allowed to smoke a cigar. Paul Gillmor was an officer and a gentleman. He was: loving, persevering, humble, generous and patriotic. He was a true public servant. It is with deep respect that we honor him today. I ask my colleagues, Minority Leader John Boehner and Dean of the Ohio Republican delegation, House member Ralph Regula, to join me in presenting to the Gillmor family the main U.S. flag that was flown at half staff over the East Front of the Capitol at the request of Speaker Nancy Pelosi on the day of Paul's passing on September 5, 2007, pictured on your program.
09.09.2007	Congresswoman Kaptur lead a moment of silence to honor Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Sonnenberg at official ribbon-cutting ceremonies for the Sonnenberg Complex at the Air National Guard's Toledo Express Airport base. Lt. Col. Kevin Sonnenberg from the 180th Fighter Wing was killed when his F-16 fighter plane crashed in Iraq in June. Congresswoman Kaptur secured nearly $7 million from the Department of Defense to construct the new facility which is home to the 180th FW Logistics Readiness Squadron and replaced a nearly 50 year old structure. "We are so proud of Kevin for his ultimate sacrifice and of each of the members of this unit -- so proud of the sacrifice they make everyday," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Lt. Col. Kevin Sonnenberg
09.03.2007	$2 Million for New Facility at Dorr / Westwood in Science and Technology Corridor Marcy Kaptur announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA) will award the University of Toledo and its Science and Technology Corridor, $2 million for the construction of UT's second high-tech business and jobs incubator. EDA will award $2 million toward the construction of a $4 million, 40,000 square foot two-story building, adjacent to the Clean and Alternative Energy Incubation Center at Westwood and Dorr Streets in Toledo, according to Kaptur. The new facility will mirror the existing incubator facility, which is near capacity as a result of the University's existing efforts in business and job development in alternative energy technologies. State and local funds will match the federal award. "New technology is the foundation stone for new jobs. University research and technical parks have become one of the most important ingredients in job creation in our nation, as evidenced by the Research Triangle in North Carolina and the U.S. 23 corridor in the Ann Arbor area," said Kaptur. The Economic Development Administration's investment in this project will allow for the expansion of the very successful Technology Corridor giving the University of Toledo the ability to attract new high-tech businesses to the Toledo Metropolitan Area. This is the second time in three weeks the U.S. Department of Commerce has recognized Toledo's growing influence in technology and alternative energy development. In August, the University announced a $1.95 million dollar EDA grant to place infrastructure in the University's Health Science Campus business park at the South end of the technology corridor. "The University's quickly expanding technology complex is at the forefront of our efforts to build on our successes in alternative energy development and create the jobs of the future for our region. This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce underscores the University's leadership in the advancement of alternative sustainable energy and the partnership of the federal government at work in our community to help make it happen," said Kaptur. "Not only does it demonstrate a commitment to an energy independent, eco-friendly future, but it also brings good jobs and attracts quality high-tech businesses and the potential for renewed growth for Northwest Ohio," she continued. Business incubators often act as economic engines -- not only giving startups companies the support they need to grow, but also providing a boost to other businesses in their communities. University and EDA projections put the potential job creation at 100 and 200 in the first three years of the incubator's operation, based on the existing incubators performance and up to 350 in the first six years. "This is where the rubber meets the road in fostering spin-off job creation and the production of products for alternative energy applications developed right here in Northern Ohio," said Kaptur. "As we literally outgrow our early efforts in the first incubator, the EDA's confidence in making this award emboldens our continued momentum toward inventing and deploying the technology and jobs of our future in the region," the Congresswoman concluded. The Science and Technology Corridor is located between the main campus, the health science campus (formerly Medical University of Ohio) and the Scott Park campus. The mission of the corridor, which was formed in 2003, is to make the region more competitive economically by encouraging collaboration between the university with its knowledge resources and technology-based organizations and businesses.
07.25.2007	Rep. Marcy Kaptur today declared "a major victory" following the 362-63 bipartisan victory in the U.S. House of Representatives late Tuesday night to prohibit the use of federal funds to advance the NAFTA Super Highway as part of the 2008 Transportation Appropriations Bill. Kaptur, a senior member and longtime opponent of NAFTA and other unfair trade agreements, said the margin of the overwhelming anti-NAFTA vote sends "a clear message" that a majority of Congress has come to understand the impact of globalization on American jobs. "We hope tonight's vote is a beacon on the horizon that this Congress is finally going to correct the course of U.S. trade policy which has seriously gone awry." The House approved an amendment crafted by Kaptur, a Democrat, and U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-52), a Republican, which prohibits the use of federal funds for Bush Administration officials to participate in continental working groups under the secretive Security and Prosperity Partnership (SPP). The proposal to create the NAFTA Super Highway has become a topic of enormous controversy in Texas and the heartland states. "The Hunter-Kaptur Amendment," Kaptur said, "was a victory for openness in trade negotiations, highway safety, good wages, and fair trade policies. The grip of global corporations was loosened last night as House members cheered this amendment's passage and its call for transparency and oversight over the Executive Branch in trade proceedings." Congresswoman Kaptur said the NAFTA Super Highway, a proposed 12-lane highway that is already under construction in Texas, will divert thousands of Asian cargo containers from California ports to Mexican ports, and then move them to the U.S. through privatized corridors across the country without adequate safety provisions and inspection. "Now, at least, Congress will have the opportunity to investigate this proposed international corridor and should not be a literal "fast track" for more American jobs to leave our country and unregulated foreign commerce to flow through Mexico to the U.S. on privatized toll roads that undermine our nation's defense and highway systems."
07.22.2007	Goal is Energy Security and Base Energy Independence Representative Kaptur announced she has secured $7.1 million from the U.S. Department of Defense to make two area National Guard bases production sites for renewable energy technologies with the goal of securing base energy independence. Kaptur said she hopes the bases will serve as national models as the first energy self-sufficient Guard bases in the country. Congresswoman Kaptur made the announcement at the 180th Ohio Air National Guard Base at Toledo Express Airport along with Guard officials and representatives of the University of Toledo. Both the 180th Fighter Wing facility at Toledo Express and the 200th Red Horse Squadron at Camp Perry near Port Clinton will serve as prototype sites for base energy conversion, she said. "Our nation's security and our homeland military base security depend on energy independence from fossil fuel imports and, for our bases, from the public utility grid as well," Kaptur said. "By first focusing on the energy security of our military, we advance alternative and renewable energy forward for our region's economic wellbeing and for our nation's health and safety." Kaptur has been spearheading defense energy independence as a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. The demonstration project at the 180th Fighter Wing will not only enhance facility operations but also improve internal base security and promote cost savings. Phase I involves technical evaluations of the site for stationary power from photovoltaic sources. Phase II will implement first phase recommendations to construct a photovoltaic-based system to reduce use of and dependence on fossil fuel public utility sources, to reduce base expenditures on electricity, and to reduce harmful emissions. The federal financial commitment from Fiscal Years 2006 and 2007 is $5.1 million. Federal support will also allow a demonstration project through the 200th Red Horse Squadron at Camp Perry with similar goals but exploring a different alternative energy technology. Phase I of this effort will evaluate operational, safety, environmental and energy requirements of stationary wind power at the facility. After evaluation, Phase II will implement a technical path forward of either a 600 kilowatt wind turbine or a solar installation. The federal financial commitment from FY 2006 and 2007 is $2.0 million. Guard officials at both bases will work together with local public and private sector entities to explore wind, solar, hydrogen fuel cells and other alternative energy options, and to explore environmental impacts, particularly of wind turbines. Chief among these partners is the University of Toledo with its Photovoltaic Innovation and Commercialization Wright Center and its Center for Photovoltaic Electricity and Hydrogen, a Wright project. Both projects anticipate developing expandable systems for follow-on capability to produce hydrogen for fuel cells and power support equipment such as low-speed vehicles and generators. Since public funds are involved, Kaptur said cooperative agreements with local governments are possible so that any excess energy produced by these alternative means would be made available to supplement energy distributed across the local grid. Kaptur said she hopes the projects evolve beyond facilities management to include fleet management as well. She noted that the Defense Department purchases more energy than any other buyer in our nation and operates one of the largest fleets of vehicles in the government. "The use of ethanol, biodiesel and hydrogen vehicles should eventually be part of these demonstration projects to see how we can convert vehicles and provide biofuels to displace the use of petroleum, much of which is imported from unstable regions of the world. My goal is to empower the Department of Defense as a leader in making the U.S. energy independent," concluded the Congresswoman.
06.12.2007	America will send a new generation of explorers to the moon aboard NASA's Orion crew exploration vehicle. Making its first flights early in the next decade, Orion is part of the Constellation Program to send human explorers back to the moon, and then onward to Mars and other destinations in the solar system. A component of the Vision for Space Exploration, Orion's development is taking place in parallel with missions to complete the International Space Station using the space shuttle before the shuttle is retired in 2010.
04.22.2007	"Our nation has made great strides since the first Earth Day in 1970," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "From the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act to creation of the Environmental Protection Agency, our response to pollution has become more robust. We have begun the cleanup of Lake Erie and the Great Lakes, which has spurred greater tourism and more economic opportunities. "Now we have to address the unquenchable thirst for energy. It is time for a concerted effort to make the transition to cleaner energy alternatives and a turn away from the technologies of yesterday." Congresswoman Kaptur recently supported the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, which would create a multibillion dollar trust fund to promote domestic renewable energy by ending tax loopholes for big oil companies. She also supported efforts to create a Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, a House task force to begin solving these problems. "These legislative victories should be the starting place for the great task that lies ahead. Together, we must reinvent our economy and invest in the technologies that make us energy independent and sustainable for the future. "With the construction of more ethanol facilities in our area, the world class development of photovoltaic research at the University of Toledo and the new possibilities of research at NASA Plumbrook, we are steadily marshaling the resources to meet these challenges. "It is not enough simply to voice our concerns. We must take action. Every day that we let slip by us without advocating for and pursuing a national agenda consisting of clean, renewable energy is a day that we ignore the open door for a cleaner and more secure future for our children."
03.28.2007	The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Trucking Safety Act would prohibit trucks based in Mexico from entering the U.S. from entering the United States beyond commercial zones until the U.S. Department of Transportation promulgates rules for compliance by Mexican drivers and carriers with federal safety regulations. "This legislation addresses an important safety issue," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The American public deserves to know that trucks from Mexico do not pose an undue safety risk, yet the government of Mexico, unlike the United States, has virtually no enforceable safety requirements for tractor-trailers and a very limited inspection regime." Congresswoman Kaptur also said law enforcement personnel in the United States should have the ability to access driver, criminal and security data bases to verify drivers' IDs, driving records, criminal records and risk to security. By contrast, the Bush Administration, in seeking to open U.S. roadways to Mexican trucks, proposes to accept "proof" by Mexican trucking companies that their drug and alcohol testing procedure comply with U.S. requirements. "There are considerable safety and security risks involved with providing Mexican truckers complete and unrestricted access to American roadways," said Congressman Hunter. "It is important that these issues are thoroughly addressed before Mexican motor carriers are permitted to freely operate beyond established commercial zones along the Southern land border. Congresswoman Kaptur said the NAFTA Trucking Safety Act would ensure that the same rules and regulations that currently apply to U.S. drivers would also apply to Mexican drivers. Under NAFTA (P.L. 103-182), American roadways and communities were scheduled to be opened to cross-border trucking competition on January 1, 2000. Largely due to Congressional opposition, however, the Clinton Administration did not grant Mexican motor carriers unrestricted access to U.S. roadways and subsequently established commercial zones just along the international border for cross-border trucking activities. While legislation was later enacted in 2001 (P.L. 107-87) requiring several safety conditions be satisfied before opening the border to Mexican trucks, the Department of Transportation has since announced that compliance standards have been met and implementation is presently underway. The Kaptur-Hunter legislation has has been referred to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Committee on Homeland Security.
03.16.2007	Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, said Plum Brook will be the site for integrated vertical tests of NASA's fully-assembled new spacecraft, Orion, whose mission will be to explore Earth's Moon and the planet Mars. The contract will be carried out by the Glenn Research Center, which last year was awarded the design of the service module component of the crew exploration vehicle (CEV), the next generation space vehicle. Testing and work on the project will be done at the agency's Plum Brook Station in Sandusky. "I am pleased to announce that Plum Brook will play an essential role in the Orion project," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This is what we have been hoping for all along-a renewed sense of purpose for Plum Brook and new opportunity for technological expertise here in Northern Ohio. Ohio's rich legacy in space and space exploration is enhanced with this great news from NASA for our region." Congresswoman Kaptur said the NASA contract is the result of coordinated effort and teamwork by local, state and federal agencies as well as the private sector. Congresswoman Kaptur, who sits on the Defense Subcommittee of Appropriations, said she has met several times with NASA officials and others to promote Plum Brook as a testing site. "It only makes sense to take advantage of your strengths," Kaptur said. "Plum Brook is a national asset, and we are excited that it is being recognized again by the NASA leadership." NASA scientists envision the Orion crew capsule as the successor to the space shuttle, with its maiden launch set for no later than 2014 and its flight moon mission no later than 2020. Orion will be capable of carrying both crew and cargo to the International Space Station. It will be able to rendezvous with a lunar landing module and an Earth departure stage in low-Earth orbit to carry crews to the moon and eventually to Mars-bound vehicles assembled in low-Earth orbit. Orion will be the Earth entry vehicle for lunar and Mars returns. Orion's design will borrow its shape from the capsules of the past, but takes advantage of 21st century technology in computers, electronics, life support, propulsion and heat protection systems. For more on Orion itself: NASA
03.07.2007	Other winners include: Runners up: Sonya Shiffler (Waite High School) and Blythe Worstell (Whitmer High School) Honorable Mentions: William Berry (Roger High School), Sareena Cox (Bowsher High School), Justin Hattendorf (Sylvania Southview High School), Hallandra Johnson (Waite High School), Erin Miller (Whitmer High School), Hardik Patel (Oberlin High School), Matthew Ruetz (Start High School), Kristin Sanchez (Whitmer High School), Kaylin Schwartz (Whitmer High School), Jacob Ueberroth (Waite High School), Emily Van Wormer (Toledo School for the Arts), and Cody Wiewandt (Edison High School) The BGSU College of Arts and Sciences award: Destiny Mathers (Waite High School) and Emily Perry (Sylvania Northview High School) The BGSU School of Art award: Brittney Filko (Oberlin High School) and Micah Washington (Bowsher High School) The UT College of Arts and Sciences award: Michelle Tomsic (Clay High School) and Tyler Bolyard (Edison High School) The UT Center for Visual Arts award: Mitchell Blackford (Whitmer High School) and Charlotte Cobourne (Toledo School for the Arts) The Eastman and Smith award: Kristin Stroud (Whitmer High School).
02.08.2007	According to Oberlin Fire Chief Dennis Kirin, the federal award will be used to purchase a mobile â€œlive fire simulatorâ€ for use in training firefighters in Oberlin and throughout the area. It is estimated that the federal award will cover 95 percent of the cost of the simulator, with five percent coming from local sources. â€œCongratulations to the department and to the community for this great success in a highly competitive process,â€ said Congresswoman Kaptur. â€œIn typical style, Oberlin is showing great leadership in training first responders.â€ Chief Kirin said the Oberlin Fire Department will now be able to prepare the paperwork and seek bids on the high-tech equipment that will allow firefighters to train in realistic fire situations. He said the simulator, which resembles a 50-foot-long truck trailer, can create a fire scene, using actual fire and smoke in a safe and environmentally sound environment. â€œIt's actually a computerized version of a building on fire,â€ Chief Kirin said. â€œWe can set by computer, not simulations, but actual live fires with smoke. It is a 100 percent safe environment in which to train in an economical and environmentally sound manner. â€œI am very motivated when it comes to training for our firefightersâ€”and also the larger needs of the area.â€ Chief Kirin said the federal award was predicated on making the simulator available not only to the five full-time and 25 part-time firefighters at the Oberlin department, which serves the city of Oberlin and New Russia Township, but also the other 652 firefighters in Lorain County. â€œWe are ecstatic,â€ said Chief Kirin. â€œThis is significant: I can't think of anything like this anywhere in Northeast Ohio.â€ â€œI applaud Chief Kirin and the city of Oberlin for looking at the big picture,â€ said Congresswoman Kaptur. â€œAll of Lorain Countyâ€”and all of Northeast Ohioâ€”is a big winner today due to their foresight.â€ Congresswoman Kaptur is a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, which funds the Homeland Security agency and the U.S. Fire Administration. She has worked extensively with fire departments throughout the Ninth Congressional District to encourage their participation in the fire grant initiative. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that she had announced a $72,257 award to the Oberlin Fire Department in October 2005 for a firefighter health and wellness program and the purchase of equipment. â€œEveryone is proud of the Oberlin Fire Department for its progressive approach and its willingness to share its equipment and expertise in the cause of protecting lives and property,â€ she said.
01.30.2007	Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution grants to the legislative branch the power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations." Fast track is an artifice that emasculates the role of the legislative branch and transfers undue power over international trade to the executive branch. It empowers the executive branch to negotiate and sign international trade agreements without first consulting with the legislative branch. It further hamstrings Congress by imposing a 90-day deadline to vote "up or down" on trade agreements with no opportunity to improve them or mitigate their most harmful provisions through the normal legislative process. I have never understood why we in the Congress do this to ourselves or to the people who elect us to represent them, much less do such a disservice to the wisdom and vision of the Founders. Let us never forget that "fast track" was the legerdemain by which the Administration rammed the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) through the House. Those of us who were here will never forget: the final vote came after midnight on July 28, 2005 as Tom DeLay held the vote open for 47 minutes. Fast track was also the vehicle by which President Bush and his allies enacted bilateral trade agreements with Morocco, Bahrain, Singapore, Chile, Oman and Australia. Fast track has facilitated the failed trade policies of the Bush Administration that have resulted in five consecutive record trade deficits. President Bush has racked up an astounding $3.38 trillion in trade deficits since he was put in office in 2001. When the December trade figures are announced, it will be official: the 2006 annual trade deficit will have doubled during the tenure of President Bush. We will have seen our nation's annual trade deficit increase during the past six years from $362.7 billion in 2001 to almost $800 billion. In the nation's heartland, we have seen job losses of epic proportions. We have seen China emerge as a global economic superpower and form with Japan a lethal one-two punch to the jobs, hopes and dreams of Middle America. We have seen vital parts of our manufacturing base disappear. In Ohio and heartland states, we know well what fast track means for our constituents: it means lost jobs and lost industries. It means unemployment and a lower standard of living. Indeed, if the executive branch were doing a good job of negotiating trade agreements, the United States would not be hemorrhaging jobs and racking up larger and larger trade deficits each succeeding year. Moreover, Congress has learned the hard way how this President handles extraordinary grants of authority. For evidence, we obviously need to look no farther than the debacle in Iraq. President Bush takes extraordinary grants of authority and then cavalierly transforms them into abuses of power. It would be nothing less than irresponsible for this Congress, knowing what it knows now about how President Bush views the separation of powers, to grant him fast track authority. In short, President Bush has proven that he cannot be trusted with such extraordinary power. Surely Congress has learned the consequences of ceding its constitutional authority to any Administration, much less an Administration with no more regard for the legislative branch or the rule of law than the Bush Administration. In 2002, the House of Representatives approved fast track by a margin of two votes. The President will soon ask for a renewal of that extraordinary authority, but only 12 of the 25 Democrats who voted for that measure are still Members of Congress. Recently, 39 freshman Members of the Democratic Caucus signed a letter denouncing the Bush Administration's "misguided trade agenda." Fast track is situated at the heart of that misguided agenda. For that reason, Congress must deny President Bush fast track authority, and I will work tirelessly-along with Republicans who care about jobs and fair trade-to repair the damage this Administration has done to our economy and our future and to deny the President fast track authority.
01.29.2007	"The Earned Income Tax Credit brings hundreds of thousands of tax dollars back to our community," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "The Earned Income Credit is there for working families who qualify, but to get it, they have to claim it on their tax forms. The Earned Income Credit, Kaptur explained, is a tax credit for people who work but do not earn high incomes. If they qualify and claim the credit, they could pass less federal tax, possibly pay no tax at all, or even receive a refund beyond the amount of federal taxes they had withheld. "Unfortunately, we learn every year about families who might have been eligible for the credit but fails to claim it. Everyone needs to help build awareness of the Earned Income Credit so that no one misses this opportunity for money to help make ends meet." For example, Congresswoman Kaptur said that more than 34,000 Lucas County residents claimed the Earned Income Credit during the previous tax year (2005), for a total amount of $64.3 million. However, an estimated $16 million was left unclaimed because taxpayers failed to request the credit when filling out their tax forms. The total amount that eligible taxpayers in the Ninth Congressional District failed to claim probably exceeded $20 million. This credit is called the "earned income" credit because, to qualify, the potential claimant must have worked and had earned income in the tax year 2006 under $38,348. If married taxpayers are filing jointly, at least one spouse must have worked and earned income. Congresswoman Kaptur said her office has a toolkit available for anyone with questions about the EITC. She urged people with questions to call her office at 419-259-7500 or 800-964-4699. She also noted that Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) programs will be in operation again this year to provide free help with tax forms for low-income residents and senior citizens.
01.18.2007	"As a longtime advocate for ethanol and the development of biodiesel technologies, I am thrilled that our new Democratic Majority has tackled this important matter so early in its session. I am pleased that today we are taking some important steps in shifting how federal resources are used - taking them away from preferential treatment for an industry with record profits and instead making them available to a new domestic energy industry with record potential." said Congresswoman Kaptur, a Member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee and the author of the first energy title in a U.S. Farm Bill. As fuel and home heating prices rise for Americans across the country and, until recently, gasoline prices skyrocketed with no end in sight, the five largest oil companies reported record profits. Since President George W. Bush took office, the Energy Information Administration reports that the average price per gallon at the pump rose a staggering $1.55. "This Administration sat idly by while Exxon Mobil, Chevron, and Conoco Phillips reported almost $16 billion in combined profits and the American people were hurting. Today, hard working Americans can find solace in this action to wean our country from its dependence on oil and to curb Big Oil's insatiable appetite for subsidies and tax breaks," said Kaptur. Congresswoman Kaptur further warned that currently 56% of oil consumed in America comes from a foreign country, creating a treacherous situation in which our country compromises our national security and our economic security, not to mention our environmental security as our massive oil consumption threatens to change our climate in disastrous ways. "Today's legislation opens the door to a cleaner, more secure future for our children," declared Congresswoman Kaptur.
01.18.2007	Congresswoman Kaptur, who is currently serving her 13th term from Ohio's Ninth Congressional District, was one of 21 Democrats who Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) named to the panel. "Our nation faces daunting fiscal challenges," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "I am looking forward to this opportunity to work with Chairman John Spratt (D-NC) in a bipartisan manner to meet those challenges." Congresswoman Kaptur also serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, including the Defense subcommittee. A longtime proponent of fair international trade laws, Congresswoman Kaptur also previously served on the House Banking Committee. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that her membership on both the Appropriations Committee and the Budget Committee will give her a unique perspective on federal fiscal issues. She said she intends to continue her emphasis on fiscal responsibility coupled with intelligent national investments in both human and physical infrastructure. "We have to create the structures that will foster job growth and economic development so we can build our nation forward and compete effectively in the 21st Century," Kaptur said. "The opportunity to serve on both the Appropriations Committee and the Budget Committee will give me a voice in those crucial long-term decisions about our nation's economic future." The House Budget Committee, which was established in 1974, is responsible for drafting the nation's annual budget in concert with its Senate counterpart. The Committee is working to set budget policies to eliminate the deficit, which currently soars at more than $300 billion, and to pay off the national debt, which exceeded $8 trillion for the most recent fiscal year. The committee also monitors action on the budget for the federal government.
01.17.2007	"This legislation will make higher education more affordable for students-and parents-from working class families throughout our country," said Congresswoman Kaptur, who voted for the legislation (H.R. 5) that passed the House on a vote of 356-71. "Passage of the College Student Relief act will put higher education within reach for more students, both traditional and non-traditional students, and make it more affordable for more than five million Americans," Congresswoman Kaptur said. The legislation, which now goes to the Senate, will cut the subsidized federal Stafford loan interest rate from its current 6.8 percent to a new level of 3.4 percent in 2011. The first cut would bring rates down to 6.12 percent on July 1, 2007, followed by annual decreases. Subsidized loans are those loans that do not accrue interest while the student is enrolled in college. Congresswoman Kaptur noted that approximately two thirds of all students at four-year colleges will incur debt to finance their educations. For 173,000 Ohio students, the average debt load for education will approach $13,500. The College Student Relief Act would reduce that debt by an average of more than $2,200 for an Ohio student who starts college this year and by more than $4,300 for a student who starts college in 2011. The legislation that passed today will affect the interest rates on loans under the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) program and the Direct Loan program administered by the U.S. Department of Education.
01.12.2007	"It took a Democratic-controlled House to pass this much-needed legislation," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "In a previous Congress, I had tried to bring forward an amendment on negotiated prices, but was refused a vote by the Republican leadership. The real winners today are not only the American taxpayers but also the estimated 42 million Americans who are eligible for prescription drug coverage through Medicare. "I think Congress should go even farther to improve the prescription drug program, but at least this legislation is a step in the right direction. The American people deserve better, despite the attempts by the big drug companies who are more interested in their own profits than the health of the American people. That's why the drug companies plowed some $14 million into the 2006 congressional elections. "Medicare is a covenant between the government and the citizens of the United States. I have always supported Medicare and Social Security as lifelines to independent living for our senior citizens, to whom we owe so much. We must keep working for fair, affordable and easy-to-use prescription drug coverage for seniors under the Medicare program. "Today's legislation is a start."
01.10.2007	Implementation of the 9-11 Commission recommendations is one of the top priorities of the Democratic-controlled House and the vote was seen as a sign of the strength of the new majority. On final passage, 231 Democrats voted in favor (two were absent). Sixty-eight Republicans supported the measure, with 128 Republicans opposed. "Port security is essential to America's homeland security," said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations defense subcommittee. "Too few containers are being inspected, while our seaports and ports of entry remain understaffed to do the complete job of inspection of cargo, people, and luggage. "Real security requires that we implement the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission. In the first 100 hours of this new Congress, with new leadership, we are finally meeting the expectations of the American people, six years after the 9-11 attacks, to address the gaps in our security systems."
01.10.2007	Late this afternoon, the House voted 315-116 in favor of the bill. Approximately 13 million Americans would enjoy a higher standard of living and increased purchasing power as a result of raising the minimum wage. "Raising the minimum wage gives value again to the ethic of work itself," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "This is a working women's issue and also a children's issue." In comments on the House floor, Kaptur framed the issue as one of value. "What about someone who bathes and cares for elderly patients? Are they worth seven dollars and twenty five cents an hour? How about the people who clean the bathrooms at the political conventions? Is their work worth seven dollars and twenty five cents an hour? What about the people who care for three-year-olds at child care centers across our country? What about people who carry heavy trayloads of dishes and feed people in our restaurants? Are they worth seven dollars and twenty five cents an hour?" The legislation now goes to the Senate for consideration. Last November, Ohio voters overwhelmingly approved an increase in the state minimum wage to $6.85 an hour, effective Jan. 1, 2007.
12.18.2006	Congresswoman Kaptur, who has more of the Lake Erie coastline in her district than any other Member, worked together with colleagues on the congressional Great Lakes Task Force in writing Admiral Thad W. Allen, commandant of the Coast Guard. They expressed concern about the Coast Guard proposal to conduct "live fire" weapons training exercises in 34 zones throughout the Great Lakes, including four zones in Lake Erie . The Coast Guard announced on November 18, 2006 the withdrawal of the live-fire exercise proposal, citing public concern. "I am pleased that the Coast Guard listened to the public and heard the concerns of members of Congress," said Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee. "We must of course keep our borders secure, but Lake Erie is a vital economic resource, especially for fishing and recreational boating." The Great Lakes are both an environmental and economic resource for Ohio and several other states. Approximately one third of America's recreational boats are registered in Great Lakes states, and boaters and sport fishers contribute a large amount to the regional economy. Furthermore, the Great Lakes provide potable water for almost 40 million people. Congresswoman Kaptur has been particularly active in obtaining funds for cleaning up the Touissant River bed and nearby lake areas from lead contamination stemming from previous military exercises.
12.12.2006	"Although the deficit in October was the lowest since August of last year, we're still on pace for a record deficit in 2006," Kaptur said. "The Bush Administration's trade policy is to drive down the value of the U.S. dollar. That puts us even more at the mercy of foreign investors who finance our debt, and our position becomes more precarious with each passing month. We continue to export our jobs and wealth instead of goods." We need fundamental change," she said. "I'm hoping the new Democratic Congress will show the way to energy independence, a renewed commitment to America's manufacturing sector, and a re-examination of the failed trade policies that have cost so many jobs, especially in the heartland." Kaptur, who won her 12th term in November, is the author of the Balancing Trade Act of 2005 (HR 4405), which would require the President to take action to confront America's staggering trade deficits. It would mandate that the President correct imbalanced trading relationships whenever the U.S. trade deficit with another country equals $10 billion for three consecutive years. She said she will introduce a new version of the legislation in the 110th Congress that will convene in January with a Democratic majority.
12.06.2006	The Iraq Study Group has provided a readable, working document that affirms the situation in Iraq is "grave and deteriorating," and that "time is running out" for a U.S. success strategy. Indeed, the report attests that 79 percent of the Iraqi people do not believe the U.S. presence there is constructive. As I have affirmed many times since the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, the Bush Administration policy has forfeited our moral authority in Iraq. On the very day the report was released, another 10 U.S. soldiers lost their lives in Iraq. Attacks against U.S. forces now total more than 180 per day, and this figure doubles with each passing year. The report also restates our nation's massive financial commitment, now more than 400 billion dollars, sapping strength from domestic priorities such as health care, education, and energy independence, all much needed here at home. Unfortunately, the report begins with the sentence "The U.S. has long term relationships and interests at stake," but then fails to identify them. Obviously, one of them is oil, and the U.S. again does not commit itself in this report to a strong effort to restore America's energy independence at home. In addition, the report is very "iffy" on how the oil bounty of Iraq will be handled in the future. Though it makes suggestions on how to manage it, the prospects of that being accomplished are quite remote. The report makes many recommendations that apply to Iraq, but not to end America's own chief strategic vulnerability--its dependence on imported petroleum, including from the Middle East. Importantly, the report places the Iraq situation in a regional context, explaining how what is happening in Iraq is operating to harm America's standing throughout the Middle East. It states how tepid international support is for the U.S. engagement in Iraq, despite the President's acclamations that there is a "coalition of the willing." In addition, though the report acknowledges that for the U.S. to draw down forces, Iraqi units must replace them, it then details that though 138,000 Army troops and 188,000 police units have some state of "readiness," half of them are not up to the task, with many functions infiltrated by the opposition. The report presents a somewhat confusing picture on the issue of how long the U.S. might need to maintain its presence in Iraq. It recommends unit withdrawal by 2008, but then in a different section states that "not all U.S. combat brigades" would be needed in the future for force protection--i.e. backup of Iraqi units. In the end, it fails to address the issue of how many combat units would actually be needed and therefore leaves the door open for an extended U.S. presence. Admitting the difficulty it will entail, the report recommends restoring broken diplomatic relations with nations the Administration has publicly ridiculed, such as Syria and Iran, as well as factions within Iraq and throughout the region with which the Administration has no dialogue, such as Moqtada al-Sadr and his militia. The report properly identifies the unresolved Israeli-Palestinian conflict as paramount to reaching a regional peace settlement-stating clearly that neither Democrats nor Republicans would ever abandon Israel-and makes strong recommendations about restoring the peace process. The report also makes at least one statement that I find implausible. It says that only 5,000 civilian contractors are operating in Iraq-from hired guns to transportation specialists-when in fact that number exceeds 100,000 and represents a serious and worrisome departure from past U.S. military operations. If that private presence morphs into a mercenary force that occupies Iraq as the U.S. military withdraws, this would be a first in American history, and a development I would not welcome. Finally, I was disappointed to read that at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, which will be the largest in the world with 1,000 employees, only 33 Americans speak Arabic. This is shocking and dangerous and another indication of the widespread mismanagement of the U.S. mission in Iraq.
11.16.2006	To see larger images, click here. "This report should shock our government into action," Kaptur said. "China's failure to act as a responsible member of the international community is a real threat to American jobs and also to our national security." Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said the commission has concluded that China has abetted the proliferation of nuclear weapons in North Korea and Iran, ignored its obligations under international trade laws, and embarked on a dangerous and aggressive military buildup. "We can no longer look the other way while China emerges as an economic and military superpower with little regard for international norms. This report is a clarion call for a dramatic change in U.S. policy toward our leading competitor," she said. Congresswoman Kaptur cited three statements in the commission's report: Nuclear Proliferation: "China's continuing record of proliferation, including its indulgence of North Korea's nuclear and missile programs and its involvement in Iran's program is deeply destabilizing ... Given strong U.S. interests in both regions, Chinese proliferation threatens U.S. security and potentially could place at risk U.S. troops operating in those regions." Jobs and Fair Trade. "China's adherence to its many World Trade Organization (WTO) obligations remains spotty and halting in important areas five years after China attained membership ... China artificially lowers the value of its currency to maintain an export-led trade policy." Manufacturing. "China's WTO-illegal trade practices are serving to hollow out the U.S. manufacturing base. The loss of America's sophisticated manufacturing capabilities has serious national security implications."
11.14.2006	Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations defense subcommittee, spoke at a recent conference on bio-based products at the Pentagon. Also attending were Secretary Gordon England of the United States Air Force, Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, U.S. Senator Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) and U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa). The Pentagon-sponsored conference supports the Defense Department's "green procurement" program and Section 9002 of the farm bill, which directs federal agencies to establish procurement preference programs for biobased products. Congresswoman Kaptur, a longtime supporter of ethanol, said the Midwestern states "have a better idea" when it comes to supplying America's energy needs. "We have a big job to do, and there could be no more important department of the United States than the Department of Defense," Congresswoman Kaptur said, working together with the Department of Agriculture. "Our country expects great things of us. And the challenge to us: will we deliver it and meet the test of a new age and new millennium?"
11.07.2006	"The Tricare web site is now part of Tricare.mil," said Congresswoman Kaptur, who serves on the House Appropriations defense subcommittee. "The newly designed site is a one-stop shop," said Congresswoman Kaptur. TRICARE is the health care plan for the uniformed services, retirees and their families, serving a beneficiary population of more than 9.2 million people. Starting Friday, November 10, a Tricare beneficiary will be able to look up benefit information, make an appointment or track a claim--all at one site. Tricare.mil comprises five main content areas: My Health (Tricare Online): personal health information and online appointment scheduling for Tricare Prime enrollees; My Benefit: Tricare benefit information; MHS Staff: resources for Military Health System staff members; Tricare Providers: information for Tricare network providers; and Pressroom: latest news about Tricare and the military health system. In the next phase of Web site improvements, beneficiaries will be able to enter their profile and receive benefit information tailored to them. Tricare expects this feature to be available in winter of 2007. TRICARE Online: https://www.tricare.mil
11.01.2006	The study will focus on recurring low-oxygen episodes, known as hypoxia, in the lake. After a period of decline in hypoxic events during the 1980s and early 1990s, the episodes have once against become a critical issue because they can kill fish and create algal blooms, particularly in the warm and shallow Western Basin. "The reappearance of 'dead zones' is one of the prime environmental challenges to Lake Erie's long-term health, along with invasive species and nutrient pollution," Congresswoman Kaptur said. "We're hoping this research can unlock the mystery of the 'dead zones' so we can restore the lake habitat to its optimum condition." Also helping to conduct the research will be Roger Knight of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and Peter Richards of Heidelberg College in Tiffin.
10.24.2006	"This university is going to help lead America into a new day of energy independence," Congresswoman Kaptur said to audience of approximately 40 people during a ceremony in McMaster Hall on the UT campus. "In fact, this university is going to be a world leader. "The Department of Defense joins as a new partner because it also understands that America has to change. The Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines know they can't depend on imported oil. They know we have to find new ways of powering the future." University of Toledo President Lloyd Jacobs expressed the gratitude of the university community for Congresswoman Kaptur's efforts in securing the support of the Defense Department. "This is a celebration of perseverance," he said. "It's a big dream to think we can harness the energy of the sun, but it's actually not just our democracy but all of humanity that can benefit from this kind of work." Congresswoman Kaptur reiterated her commitment to helping America achieve energy independence. She said the Center for Solar Energy and Hydrogen will anchor one end of the proposed high-technology corridor in west Toledo. Establishment of a Department of Defense research center for alternative energy was UT's top federal research priority during the current federal fiscal year, and Congresswoman Kaptur, a senior member of Congress, championed the project from her position on the defense subcommittee of House Appropriations. She also noted the importance of alternative energy to U.S. troops deployed in remote and often difficult environments, such as Afghanistan. She has heard from military leaders who have expressed the need for lightweight and portable energy transmission systems to increase the flexibility and mobility of American forces. Today's announcement of $3.6 million comes on top of five previous $1 million federal awards to support the university's path-breaking photovoltaic research. Within the past year, second-generation thin film products have achieved commercial manufacturing success, but existing designs will not meet the projected needs of the U.S. military. In her remarks, Congresswoman Kaptur acknowledged the contributions to alternative energy research by the late Harold Biggers, head of Libbey Owens Ford, "who believed enough in this region to push the physics of glass," and the late Harold McMaster, whom she described as "a modern-day Thomas Alva Edison." She said Mr. McMaster saw the potential of glass not just for automobiles and building materials, but also for the production of energy. Ms. Kaptur said Mr. McMaster once asked for her support for a new business that would capture the energy of the sun in a field 50 miles long and 50 miles wide. "I don't know if I can get enough federal demonstration dollars for something 50 miles by 50 miles," she recalled replying to him. "Do you think maybe we could do something a little smaller? But, really, we've been about that ever since that time."
10.17.2006	The cost-of-living (COLA) increase in 2006 was 4.1%. The COLA adjustments are based on the Consumer Price Index. The COLA increase will be reflected in Social Security checks starting in January 2007, while the increase for Supplemental Security Income beneficiaries will begin on December 30. The maximum Social Security benefit for a worker retiring at full retirement age in 2006 is $2,053 per month. That amount will increase to $2,116. Full retirement age in 2007 will be 65 years and 10 months. The estimated average Social Security monthly benefit payable in January 2007 will be $1,044, or $1,713 for an aged couple, both receiving benefits. Click here for the Social Security Administration's fact sheet with information about the 2007 Social Security benefits. (You must have Adobe Reader, available for free here, to view this document)
10.12.2006	Congresswoman Kaptur, a leading critic of "free trade" policies, responded to this morning's Commerce Department report that the U.S. trade deficit in August hit another record for a single month--$69.9 billion. That figure exceeded the previous record of $68.0 billion, set the month before. The August deficit far exceeded analysts' expectations of $66.4 billion. "These deficits are out of control and threatening our nation's long-term economic health," said Kaptur. "And yet the Bush Administration trade policy is just more of the same. As the saying goes, when you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging." The deficit in goods in August increased $2.1 billion to $75.5 billion, according to the Commerce Department, while the surplus in services actually increased marginally. The increase in the goods deficit was driven by increased imports of industrial supplies, capital goods, consumer goods and automobile vehicles and auto parts. "Our country is becoming more and more beholden to foreign interests that finance these deficits," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "We are not only shipping jobs overseas-we are shipping billions of dollars overseas. We are exporting our jobs and our wealth, not our products. "Our country is on path to break last year's record deficit of $716.7 billion. Our economy is now in uncharted waters. A trade deficit of this magnitude signals that our nation is no longer independent. We are reliant on foreign goods, foreign oil, and foreign credit to sustain ourselves. To compensate for this loss of economic prowess, our nation is selling off pieces of itself---everything from the Indiana Turnpike to our auto industry. The value of U.S. currency has fallen in global markets. As the dollar declined, gold prices climbed due to lack of confidence in the dollar. Saudi Arabia's investments and petrodollars have recycled through Wall Street, keeping the stock market afloat, but at the expense of every family in America. Japan's and China's purchase of our U.S. public debt securities make our nation more beholden every day. America needs a new burst of independence, not more dependence." Kaptur is the author of the Balancing Trade Act of 2005 (HR 4405), which would require the President to take action to confront America's staggering trade deficits. It would mandate that the President correct imbalanced trading relationships whenever the U.S. trade deficit with another country equals $10 billion for three consecutive years.
09.28.2006	Congresswoman Kaptur voted in favor of the bipartisan Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act (S. 2430), which was sponsored by U.S. Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and U.S. Rep. Dale Kildee (D-MI). The bill passed the House by a voice vote. It was amended in the House, however, and must now go back to the Senate for approval. "We will literally redouble our efforts to save and restore the fish and wildlife populations, especially in the Lake Erie ecosystem," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This bill is an important first step towards working together with everyone who cares about a healthy lake and healthy ecosystem." In 2003, Congresswoman Kaptur secured passage of the Ottawa National Wildlife Complex Expansion Act (now Public Law 108-23). That law permits the Secretary of the Interior to acquire by donation, purchase or exchange additional land and water within the boundaries of the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, which is located between Toledo and Sandusky. The legislation approved last night by the House would double the federal contribution to fish and wildlife restoration initiatives from the current level of $8 million a year to a new level of $16 million. Congresswoman Kaptur said the Great Lakes Restoration Act, which was first passed in 1990, has previously been used to restore wetlands (such as the Boggy Bottoms in Sandusky County) and to boost fish populations, particularly walleye and perch, by restoring habitat and studying movement. "There is so much important work to be done," said Congresswoman Kaptur. "This legislation will give us an important management tool." A key feature of the legislation, she said, is that it promotes cooperation among non-profit organizations, state natural resources departments, colleges and universities, and federal agencies such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
09.18.2006	Cleveland-based Brush Wellman, the world's only fully integrated producer of beryllium, chose Elmore over another company facility located in Utah as the site for the $40-60 million investment in a primary beryllium facility. "This is a red-letter day for Elmore and for Ottawa County," said Congresswoman Kaptur, who has worked to appropriate more than $18 million from the U.S Department of Defense for beryllium production as a strategic metal in defense preparedness. Kaptur is a member of the influential Defense Appropriations Subcommittee in the House of Representatives. "Brush Wellman already employs almost 600 workers at the Elmore plant, making it one of the major employers in the area. This announcement will strengthen the position of the Elmore plant as a key cog in our national defense preparedness strategy," said Congresswoman Kaptur. Brush Wellman's decision to locate the primary beryllium facility in Elmore was determined in part through design and engineering work over the past year that was funded under a $9 million contract as part of the Defense Production Act. Brush officials cited state and local incentives, the availability of an experienced workforce, and the proximity to other support services as key factors in choosing Elmore over the Utah site. "We know it was a tough decision," said Congresswoman Kaptur, "but we know the company made the right choice when it decided to invest in the Elmore facility and the workers here. This announcement truly demonstrates what can happen when all parties work together." Under a public-private cost sharing partnership created under the Defense Production Act, Brush Wellman will provide the land, buildings and technology while the government will fund engineering and design as well as equipment. Construction is expected to be completed within approximately three years. "Congresswoman Kaptur and Brush Wellman officials greet a worker during shift change at the Elmore plant. Congresswoman Kaptur announced the creation of a new $40-60 million investment that will create more jobs at the Elmore facility."
08.01.2006	The American Task Force for Lebanon (ATFL) strongly endorses this Congressional effort. Dr. George Cody, Executive Director of the task force commended the signers of the letter "who are trying to bring an end to the carnage and destruction taking place in Lebanon and Israel, now and in the future." ATFL, a nonprofit organization, is made up of prominent members of the Lebanese-American community and is dedicated to maintaining a secure, stable, independent, and sovereign Lebanon, with the Government of Lebanon exercising exclusive control over all its territory. According to the ATFL, roughly 600,000 Americans are of Lebanese decent, with the highest concentration of Lebanese-Americans in the country stretching from Detroit to Cleveland, including a high concentration in Toledo, Ohio, the seat of Congresswoman Kaptur's district. Congresswoman Kaptur, representing this substantial Lebanese-American constituency, as well as a considerable Jewish community, is a strong advocate for a peaceful solution to escalating conflicts in the Middle East. In a statement on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 27, 2006, Congresswoman Kaptur pleaded with her colleagues to remember the plight of those affected by Middle East violence over the five-week recess. "Surely," she told the House of Representatives, "we are destroying a part of the earth that will take generations to restore, and we every day are watching young people and innocence killed by the hundreds and thousands." During House debate, she promoted a peaceful solution to the violent situation in declaring, "It is especially essential to be a voice for peace when others believe that escalating the military option without serious and equal emphasis on political and diplomatic efforts will yield calm and resolution." It is in this spirit that she has authored this letter to the President asking for a total and immediate cease-fire between all warring parties. Besides these distinguished Members of Congress, numerous notable Lebanese-Americans have called for a cease-fire including Toledo native Jamie Farr, Casey Kasem, Kathy Najimy, and Tony Shaloub. Click Here View Congresswoman Kaptur's Letter to the President Click Here To View Congresswoman Kaptur's Speech On Wednesday JULY 27, 2006
06.27.2006	Kaptur offered the continuing assistance of her office in assuring that information is provided across all agencies expeditiously and completely to streamline the application procedures for those experiencing damage. In addition, she requested that FEMA work to convene a meeting in the district including FEMA, SBA, Department of Agriculture, EPA, and the Army Corps of Engineers to explain all grant and loan programs for which individuals, farmers, and businesses as well as communities qualify. In related action, Congresswoman Kaptur has passed legislation over several Congresses that is now funding an ongoing major watershed study in northwest Ohio, eastern Indiana, and lower Michigan areas. The lead in that effort is the Natural Resource and Conservation Service, Mr. Steve Davis headquartered in Findlay, Ohio. This project addresses the increasing amounts of storm water runoff that have afflicted Toledo for many years and will propose new methods to divert and hold runoff across the region. Below is a copy of the letter: 06/27/2006 Mr. R. David Paulison Director Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, DC 20472 Dear Director Paulison: I am writing to request that FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security make available to local officials in Ohio its full range of federal programs and grants, across all agencies, to assist victims of the flash flooding that caused significant damage to the city of Toledo as well as other areas in Lucas and Erie Counties. As you are no doubt aware, Governor Bob Taft has issued an emergency declaration for Lucas County and further determined that Erie County be eligible for disaster assistance. Other parts of Northern Ohio, including Cuyahoga, Stark and Huron counties received similar designations. It is becoming clear that municipalities and local relief agencies will not be able to provide relief without Federal assistance. Over the course of two days, dangerous storms brought several inches of rain, high winds, tornados and flash flooding in rapid succession. Many structures throughout the area suffered partial or complete destruction. Refuse crews have already removed more than 115 tons of debris from affected areas. Local officials continue to assess the damage, and fear that express the likelihood that the extent of the damage will grow. Clearly, coordination with local officials and agencies is needed to deliver timely and efficient relief to those affected by the storms. I stand ready to work with you or your designee and offer any assistance to help bring quick and much needed relief to my community. Please do not hesitate to contact me or my staff at (202) 225-4146. Sincerely, MARCY KAPTUR U.S. Representative
06.14.2006	Without the opportunity for an up or down vote on the pay raise, final passage is expected today on the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which contains the automatic cost of living increase for Congress. Congresswoman Kaptur said Members of Congress should forego the increases at a time of great hardship for millions of Americans who are out of work or possibly serving in the armed forces. "If that slight were not enough, the nation is running record budget deficits with red ink as far as the eye can see," said Kaptur. "This is the same Congress that approved cuts to funding for veterans' health care by $6 billion over the next five years, despite increasing demand," said Kaptur. "Congress shouldn't be rewarded with a $3,300.00 pay hike for cutting services to our returning military." Members of Congress next year will make approximately $168,500 a year. The bill also includes raises of 2.7 percent for civil servants. Congresswoman Kaptur has declined to accept congressional pay raises for several years. The Clerk of the House, citing the fact that the pay raises are the law of the land as passed by Congress and signed by the president, has forced Congresswoman Kaptur to accept the higher salary. As a result, Rep. Kaptur has established separate accounts, one at the Toledo Community Foundation, to receive funding which she then directs to charitable organizations in the Ninth District.
06.06.2006	"We must reshape trade agreements in North America to ensure rising standards of living for our peoples," said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. The groups met in Ottawa on June 5, 2006, to extend the work of the first North American Forum held in Washington in May 2005. This second forum brought progressive legislators together with representatives from civil society networks Red Mexican de AcciÃ³n frente al Libre Comercio (RMALC) of Mexico, Canadian organization Common Frontiers, le RÃ©seau QuÃ©bÃ©cois sur l'intÃ©gration continentale (RQIC), and the Alliance for Responsible Trade (ART) from the United States. "NAFTA has aggravated poverty across the continent," says Pierre-Yves Serinet of RQIC. According to NDP Trade Critic, Peter Julian, "there is no doubt that under NAFTA most Canadians are poorer. We have been fighting to make adjustments and now it is clear that NAFTA has to be replaced. It is not working for the vast majority of inhabitants of North America. It has failed on the bottom line." In anticipation of the March 2007 "Three Amigos Summit" that will be held in Ottawa, the new group will create a North American secretariat and introduce simultaneous legislation in Mexico, the U.S and Canada to replace NAFTA. It will build opportunities for public engagement on the issue of continental integration. Rosario Quispes of RMALQ describes the Security and Prosperity Partnership, as "a distorted, more dangerous version of NAFTA." "We need to work together to stop the Security Prosperity Partnership because the negotiations have been anti-democratic, without transparency and promise to benefit only the business elite of the region," says Victor Suarez, Member of the Mexican Parliament (Partido de la RevoluciÃ³n Democratica, D.F.). Civil society groups applaud participating parliamentarians for involving the public - Something the governments of the three states have failed to do. "We want to work with civil society to develop another model of integration that will ensure prosperity for all, says Bloc QuÃ©bÃ©cois MP, Pierre Paquette."
05.27.2006	Our coastal region can draw millions of visitors here annually by showcasing the beauty of our 'Bloom Coastâ€™. Lucas and Lorain Counties are Ohio's flower capitals. Homeowners, businesses, organizations and local governments can visually show their support by beautifying their own property and neighborhood,â€ said Kaptur. â€œThrough coordinated theme plantings, our region will draw visitors to lake-oriented experiences from Toledo to Cleveland as our region gains a reputation as the Cape Cod or Hilton Head of the Midwest. Our hope is that this will build a major, annual eco-tourism attraction, as the Maumee Valley Growers, Lake Erie Coastal Ohio and so many other entities pursue their efforts.â€ Maumee Valley Growers is an association of wholesale and retail greenhouse growers who are dedicated to growing the Northern Ohio floriculture industry. Lake Erie Coastal Ohio is also working with Maumee Valley Growers, botanical gardens, Metroparks, and others to plan for native species plantings along scenic byways in Northern Ohio and to market our coast. Agriculture is Ohioâ€™s number one industry, and Kaptur is committed to exploring ways for family farmers and growers to compete in a global environment. During her visit to the Farmersâ€™ Market today, Kaptur also encouraged qualified people to participate in the Senior Farmersâ€™ Market Coupon program which has provided more than $5 million in fresh fruits and vegetables to thousands of the region's older adults, while also providing income to hundreds of local growers by spending our food dollars locally.. To find local growers in your area, go to www.maumeevalleygrowers.com and, for farm markets, to www.ohioproud.org/fmdirectory.
05.24.2006	A hazardous substance grant of $200,000 and a petroleum grant of $200,000 will be used to conduct community outreach activities, perform environmental site assessments, and to investigate the impacts of exposures on at-risk populations. The funding will aid the City and the Port Authority to identify potentially hazardous sites and prepare preliminary clean-up plans for those sites. The EPA Brownfield Assessment fund has been used successfully before by the City of Toledo in identifying the extent of contamination in East Toledo's Marina District and to attract clean-up funding to the site. "We have the opportunity to transform our community eyesores into community gems," said Kaptur. "Identifying sites through community outreach and input is the first step in turning problem properties back into community assets. We can put both people and property back to work. "Eventual cleanup of the brownfield areas dilapidated and vacant commercial and industrial properties will not only enhance the environmental quality of the area, but will facilitate redevelopment of the properties and will ensure better health and a brighter future for the next generation of Toledoans," said Kaptur. Brownfields are sites where expansion, redevelopment, or reuse may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. The brownfields program supports efforts to return America's estimated 450,000 problem properties to productive community use. This year, 209 applicants were selected to receive 292 grants totaling $69.9 million for assessment or cleanup of properties. Toledo has approximately 200 brownfield sites, in addition to the city's abandoned gas stations.
05.13.2006	"As we enjoy one of the most beautiful spring seasons on record, it seems an appropriate time to welcome the start of the Senior Farmers' Market Coupon Program," said Kaptur. "Since this effort began in the summer of 2001, it has provided more than $5 million in fresh fruits and vegetables to thousands of our region's older adults, while also providing income to hundreds of local growers. We are always looking for ways to expand our Farmers' Markets as well as the success of our local and independent growers throughout the district. The Senior Farmers' Market Coupon Program does just that and encourages good nutrition for older adults." The Ohio Department of Aging and the Area Office on Aging received a grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in the amount of $1,065,877 to provide locally grown fresh fruits, vegetables, and herbs to 17,000 eligible older adults citizens in Northwest Ohio. This is the sixth year for the effort supported by Kaptur, who serves on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the USDA and the Senior Nutrition grant. Mrs. Billie Johnson, Executive Director of the Area Office on Aging, stated, "We are so pleased to be able to offer the Farmers' Market Coupon Program again to our older adults. This initiative is a wonderful way to help continue in our mission to serve older adults and improve their quality of life. We have the opportunity to expand nutrition service options, enabling people to purchase the very best in quality produce fresh from our own region. We have been able to develop a strong partnership with area farmers, the State Departments of Health and Aging, and USDA, to successfully implement a creative program our seniors have truly appreciated and fully utilized." Dr. Rebecca Liebes, Director of Nutrition at the Area Office on Aging noted, "We have heard from thousands of older adults who have benefited from the program during the last five years, many of whom were able to enhance special diets and improve their overall health as a result of being able to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables. Through this program, our goal is to improve the diets of older adults by offering coupons to be used to purchase fresh produce from local farmers to supplement their meals. In turn, our elders are helping local farmers by giving them a greater outlet to sell their produce." Kaptur reminded people that to qualify, people over age 60 with incomes of less than $24,420 per year for couples and $18,130 for individuals may apply for the color-coded coupons. The coupons may be used through the months of June through October at participating farmers markets and roadside produce stands. The Area Office on Aging explained that applications will be accepted at distribution sites and coupons will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. Only one application is required to receive coupons for the entire program. The agency suggests that participants should select a convenient distribution site to apply for and receive coupons because for the duration of the program, participants will need to return to the same distribution site to obtain coupons each month. They should contact their site for the exact times, days, and procedure they will be using to distribute coupons. For locations, call the Area Office on Aging at 419-382-0624. Eligible participants will receive the equivalent of $30 in six, five-dollar coupons good for the months of June and July, and the equivalent of $20 in four, five-dollar coupons per month from August through October. Farmers will have the produce clearly marked as to what produce is locally grown. A list of participating farmers is available when coupons are distributed. More than one hundred local farmers are participating in the Senior Farmers' Market Coupon Program this year. Kaptur concluded, "This is a big plus for our region - for older adults and family farmers. It is the only one in the state and one of the few in the nation. It truly represents a win-win for farmers and older adults alike. We applaud the Area Office on Aging's bold pursuit of this federal effort to aid older adults' nutrition while contributing to the economic success of family farmers."
05.12.2006	TOLEDO, OHIO - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) released the following statement on the latest trade deficit numbers released by the Department of Commerce today. The trade deficit hit $62 billion in March, which is almost $10 billion more than the previous year's monthly deficit of $53.7 billion. The deficit for the first three months of this year is already running at an annual rate of $785 billion, up by 8.4 percent from last year's all-time high of 723.6 billion. The statement follows: "Freedom for America's 21st Century should mean an America that exports more than she imports. As industry after industry is downsized and outsourced, America hemorrhages good jobs while the middle class disappears before our very eyes. For every billion dollars of deficit, more than 10,000 jobs are lost in this country. And, if shipping our jobs overseas were not enough, the American people get to foot the bill for billions of dollars in interest payments on increasing U.S. debt being owed to foreign interests. "It is time for the Administration to regain control of this runaway train and take a good hard, look at the ill-conceived, lopsided trade agreements that export jobs and import red ink to our trade ledgers." Kaptur has introduced the Balancing Trade Act of 2005 (HR 4405) which will require the President to take action when America faces deficits like we see today. It would mandate that the President correct these imbalanced trading relationships when our deficit with them would equal $10 billion for 3 consecutive years.
05.11.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) joined her colleagues in the House and Members of the Democratic Rural Working Group today to unveil a plan to invest in America, grow our energy, and establish energy independence. The Biofuels Energy package would rapidly expand the production and distribution of biofuels; encourage the deployment of new engine technologies for flex fuel, hybrid and biodiesel vehicles; and encourage cutting edge research to develop the next revolution in renewable energy. The Democratic Real Security Agenda calls for energy independence by 2020. "American agriculture is the key to improving America's energy security through ethanol, biodiesel, and other renewable fuels, while creating new markets here at home, and reducing our Nation's dependence on foreign oil," said Kaptur. "This legislation will bring real investments in alternative fuels that can provide us with opportunities for producer income as well as energy independence." The plan provides federal investment in basic biofuels research to make ethanol production more efficient, develop new feedstock processes and foster new vehicle efficient technologies. In addition, the legislation provides federal incentives to encourage diverse ownership so that independent, locally-owned facilities can compete with large oil companies. "Our region has the ability to produce clean and renewable energy from agricultural commodities, from byproducts from agricultural processing, and from waste. There are many cheaper, more creative solutions than the destructive energy policies the Administration has been pursuing," said Kaptur. Significantly increasing the usage of biofuels in the U.S. is one of the most obvious ways to achieve the goal of energy independence. High-ethanol fuel offers a cheaper, homegrown alternative to record-high gasoline. The highest commercially available blend in common use today is a blend of 85 percent ethanol, and 15 percent gasoline, known as E-85. Kaptur said that the effort builds on her legislation, the Biofuels Energy Independence Act (HR 388) that would also have set up additional authority for financing renewable fuel development, production and distribution, as well as a farmer-owned grain fuels reserve. She has also proposed higher renewable fuel standards than those adopted in last year's energy bill. She had called for 10% ethanol and 5% biodiesel by 2010.
05.06.2006	Kaptur has been strongly advocating an eco-tourism theme presenting Lake Erie's coast as Ohio's "Bloom Coast" and has enlisted all stakeholders along the lakefront in that endeavor. The City of Vermilion and Lorain County are also interested in being part of Ohio's "Bloom Coast." "Our hope is to broaden tourism on Lake Erie's south coast and that this partnership will grow into an annual effort, organized by Maumee Valley Growers and Lake Erie Coastal Ohio," said Kaptur. "Coastal Ohio is also working with Botanical Gardens, Metroparks, and growers of native species to plan for native species being featured along scenic byways. Perhaps what will come of all this is native species highway plantings and a changing "Flower of Year" for municipalities along the byway." Cedar Point attracts over 3 million visitors a year. Yet Lancaster, Pennsylvania with its rural and Amish character attracts over 7 million. Kaptur continued "Lucas and Lorain Counties as Ohio's Flower Capitals anchor opposite ends of Ohio's "Bloom Coast" counties with Cedar Point at the center. This holds enormous potential to draw visitors to and from Cedar Point to tourist lake-oriented experiences from Toledo to Cleveland, by showcasing the beauty of the "Bloom Coast" through annual, coordinated theme plantings."
05.05.2006	Click here to view a copy of the letter
04.28.2006	Kaptur was joined by the USDA Undersecretary for Natural Resources and Environment Mark Rey, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, the Extension Service of Ohio State University, several area landscapers and nursery operators, and school children to bring community awareness to private home and land owners. She urged scout troops, school groups, the business community, public organizations, and religious groups to undertake tree planting this spring to replace what is being destroyed by Emerald Ash Borer infestation. Kaptur, Undersecretary Rey and Sister Jeremias planted an American Chestnut tree in celebration of Arbor Day. The Sisters of St. Francis have agreed to distribute 700 trees to the public in an effort to reforest our area. The trees were donated by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources. "I hope that Undersecretary Rey will come away from his visit with a better appreciation for the challenges we face, the needs we have, and with the certainty that future USDA resources would be well spent here in northern Ohio," said Kaptur. "We are hopeful that this campus will be used as a demonstration site for controlling this pest. The infestation of the Emerald Ash Borer pest is a public safety issue. Once the tree has been infected the tree rapidly deteriorates and can cause damage to homes, property or even human life. We are asking homeowners on this Arbor Day to inspect their lands, discover the characteristics of ash trees and the signs of infected trees." The Undersecretary's visit follows on a meeting Congresswoman Kaptur hosted with top USDA officials in Washington, including the U.S. Forest Service, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service. Kaptur, a member of the House Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee has requested additional emergency dollars to assist with the effective control and containment of the Emerald Ash Borer. Nearly $88 million has been spent by USDA alone to control this bug which first inflicted Michigan, and has now spread primarily to Ohio and Indiana. This money includes $7.5 million of emergency funding that the Appropriations Committee on which Kaptur serves has been told has been approved, but final allocation decisions are yet to be made by the Department. USDA officials had originally estimated that the total cost of control would be $250 million. "We are grateful to Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur for her tenacity in helping the Sisters of St. Francis keep their homestead as a recognized forest," said Sister Jeremias Stinson, Director of Woodlands and Shrine, Sisters of St. Francis. "The Sisters of St. Francis are fine stewards of the earth," said Kaptur. "As a part of their mission and ministry, the Sisters of St. Francis share their lives and resources with all God's people. On this Arbor Day, we plant hope. Our hope focuses on those who will reside in our area in the future so they may continue to enjoy our rich lands, beautiful trees on the emerald necklace that encircles Lake Erie," concluded Kaptur. Individuals needing information on removing or treating Ash trees may contact the Ohio State Extension Office in Lucas County at 419-578-6783. To secure a tree, please contact Sister Jeremias Stinson at 419-824-3623. The Congresswoman also encouraged the elderly or disabled who may need assistance in planting trees to call Sandy Garrison at the Maumee Valley Girl Scout Council at 419-243-8216. For more information, visit https://www.emeraldashborer.info/
04.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced today that Midwest Optoelectronics of Toledo will be awarded $99,455 from the Department of Energy's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program to further its path-breaking work in solar cell technology. This funding will be made available through the SBIR initiative which allocates a specific percentage of all federal research and development grants to small business applicants. "This award signals further recognition by the Department of Energy that the work being done in our region in alternative energy is cutting-edge. Our area is on the forefront of technological advancements in energy alternatives for the country and the world," said Kaptur. Midwest Optoelectronics is working to develop lightweight, flexible solar cells for military, space, and consumer use. The proposed technology addresses the issue of the interconnection of solar cells, and is expected to result in a more efficient manufacturing process and flexible solar cells of higher performance at lower cost. Midwest Optoelectronics is one of 253 small businesses selected from 1,387 applications. Phase I of the grant is expected to begin in late June. During this period, the company will determine the feasibility of its concept. After completion of Phase I, the company will be eligible to compete in fiscal year 2007 for Phase II funding, which is the principal research and development phase of the program.
04.25.2006	"It's always been said that if you don't like the policies of the Bush Administration, wait six months. Six months ago he opposed many of the steps he is suggesting today. Furthermore, what the President has suggested today I proposed several years ago. Modifying the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is a bill I introduced before last summer's gasoline price surge, and one of a package of bills I have introduced to not only encourage but support the use of alternative fuels. "I invite the endorsement of these bills by the Bush Administration, but I won't hold my breath. Remember that the oil executives who recently testified before the Senate committee scoffed at the idea of price collusion. Also keep in mind, that the Bush budget once again cuts the USDA budget in support of biofuels production by $78 million this year, after proposing similar cuts in each of the past three years. Action speaks louder than words." Legislation introduced by Rep. Kaptur in the House that encourage and support the use of alternative fuels: H.R.3345 To expand the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to include alternative fuels, and for other purposes. H.R.1398 To amend the Clean Air Act to require that, after the year 2010, all gasoline sold in the United States for motor vehicles contain not less than 10 percent ethanol and that all diesel. H.R. 388 Biofuels Energy Independence Act of 2005.
04.12.2006	"The record-breaking hemorrhage of America's good jobs continues unabated as evidenced by the latest trade deficit figures released today," said Kaptur. "Every billion dollars in deficit equals more than 10,000 jobs lost. At the same time, the U.S. is becoming more and more beholden to foreign interests who are financing this net deficit. We are not only shipping jobs overseas, we are shipping billions of dollars in interest payments on U.S. debt now held by foreign interests. It is no surprise that retailing of foreign goods is now America's biggest business." Kaptur has introduced the Balancing Trade Act of 2005 (HR 4405) which will require the President to take action when America faces deficits like we see today. It would mandate that the President correct these imbalanced trading relationships when our deficit with them would equal $10 billion for 3 consecutive years. "In order to correct accounts that are seriously in the red, someone has to go back and look at the books," said Kaptur. "It is a responsible approach, one that the executive branch should be taking and one that is long overdue. How long will it be before we put a foreclosure sign on our U.S. Department of the Treasury? What an embarrassment for a Nation founded in independence." Last year, the U.S. deficit hit an all-time high of $723.6 billion; that's 100 billion more than the previous year's imbalance. The trend shows that the U.S. is headed to another annual record. "Every year, with all the unfair trade agreements that have been signed, the red ink just keeps getting deeper," continued Kaptur. "We are hemorrhaging America's good jobs, with fewer people working at good jobs to create real wealth. A deficit like this stifles real economic growth."
04.03.2006	April 3, 2006 The Honorable Michael Leavitt, Secretary U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Leavitt: Thank you for coming to our region to view first hand the implementation of the Bush Administration's Part D drug plan for people on Medicare. Taking the time to listen to people's concerns and working with Congress to achieve legislative and regulatory remedies to address the program's shortcomings can benefit Americans. Reduce Costs Through Bulk Purchasing Agreements Importantly, I urge you to join Members of Congress in supporting legislation to allow the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to negotiate purchase price of pharmaceuticals and allow bulk purchase agreements to hold down prices to consumers. The rising costs of pharmaceuticals to consumers since the passage of this law demonstrates that much more must be done to achieve affordable prescription drugs for beneficiaries while controlling federal spending. Standardize Plans Until laws are able to be changed to provide an affordable, predictable Medicare Part D Rx benefit for all people who are eligible, streamline the confusing array of private plans by limiting their total number to ten, as we have accomplished with Medicare supplementary plans, this would greatly aid those trying to determine which PDP is best for them. Ban Gifts As you know, eight million people who were deemed as "dual eligible" and enrolled in both Medicare and Medicaid were required to sign up before January 1, 2006. They, along with people enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan or whose employer-sponsored plan ceased coverage, comprise the bulk of people who have signed up. This most vulnerable group of people continues to have difficulty with plans in which they were enrolled and are prey to confusing solicitations from the private drug plan operators. Please let me suggest HHS should develop regulations limiting the way in which these companies can solicit. Full and clear disclosure should be required of what sign up in the PDP will mean for that individual. Such lures as taking people out to dinner, coming to their home, and gifts should be prohibited. Perhaps rules could be established like those put in place for Medicare supplemental insurance coverage solicitation. Extend Deadline Given the considerable difficulties people have had in trying to learn the details of the plan and the lack of information provided about the PDPs for which they might sign up, extending the deadline to sign up without penalty would help ensure that people to not rush to choose a PDP before the agency works out all of the program's problems. Disclose Coverage Gaps in PDPs Companies which do not offer gap coverage, such as AARP, should be required to make this fact very clear in writing. It should be clearly and simply stated what drugs are covered, what dosages of the drugs are covered, what is the true cost to the consumer, and whether the full cost of the drug or the consumer's out of pocket expense is the figure used in reaching the $2,250. It should also be stated clearly and boldly that the PDP may drop a drug from coverage, the terms under which the drug will be dropped, and what options exist for the consumer if the drug is dropped. Our office is already hearing from people who are nearing their $2,250 because the full cost of the drug is used though this fact was never explained to them. We are also hearing from people already getting letters-three months into the program-that drugs are being dropped, and these PDPs are not giving a sixty day notice. Require Uniform ID Numbers Many of the problems people have been experiencing when going to a pharmacy are the result of a multiplicity of ID numbers. There is no uniformity or conformity of a number the PDPs are using. Requiring all PDPs to use a person's Medicare ID number would be helpful. This requirement simplifies tracking for the pharmacist, ensures the enrollee knows the number, and makes it clear which number on the PDP card is the ID number. It also simplifies enrollment verification for SSA and Medicare. Simplify Application There continues to be a disconnect between agencies and PDP companies. SSA, Medicare, and state and county public assistance agencies need to be interconnected with each other and with the PDP companies through the use of one central application. Related to this problem is the flow of information between Medicare, SSA and county public assistance agencies which results in confusion about the program itself and subsidies to which people may be entitled. Perhaps the greatest barrier to people who are dual eligibles successfully transitioning to the PDPs is this lack of coordinated information. We would ask HHS to take a vested interest in ensuring the interconnectedness of all agencies involved and ensure that it occurs. Expand Extra Help Eligibility The other group of vulnerable people requiring attention are those whose income qualifies them for Extra Help but whose other resources disqualify them. You may know that 4.5 million people have -applied for Extra Help but only 1.5 million have qualified. HHS' own figures estimated that five million people were eligible for Extra Help. Generally, people whose incomes qualify them do not have much more than the assets allowed and if they do, these assets are not very liquid. Thus, a more realistic resource test should be developed. An alternative to be considered could be along the lines of the community spouse resource test used when one partner of a couple enrolls in Medicaid while in long term care. Or guidelines could be developed more in line with real-life expectations of the financial cushions people try to keep in place in the event of a catastrophic illness, death of a spouse, or protection against income reductions in older age. Require Comparison of PDP To Existing Health Plan People who have good existing drug coverage are being told they can sign up for a PDP and still retain their existing health benefits, such as people in the public employee retirement system and unions or employer-sponsored plans. As a result, people are signing up for a PDP and then losing their full health coverage. We would appreciate a written explanation from HHS as to how the PDP benefits interact with existing health coverage, and the consequences to that health coverage of signing up for a PDP. Broaden Formularies of PDPs You have replied to the issue of formularies in response to a previous inquiry from me. I will ask again that this issue be examined so that the PDPs offer broader formularies and do not restrict based on the dosage of a medicine. Particularly in the area of mental illness treatment, people are being forced to go without the vital medicine they can no longer afford. While Medicaid will assist those who are dual eligibles, those who are not-such as people enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan-find they must pay the full cost of their medicine or go without. For most it is no choice, and they are forced to go without. Expand Resources To Counseling Agencies Finally, and importantly, agencies providing counseling to people trying to understand the program must be appropriately supported. Already stretched budgets are stretched beyond capacity as these agencies help people. In our own region, the Area Office on Aging and the Ability Center of Greater Toledo have fielded inquiries and spent two hours per person for thousands of people. This burden must be properly compensated by HHS. Thank you for your attention to these issues. I look forward to your reply, which I will share with our community and the agencies serving people on Medicare. Sincerely, Marcy Kaptur U.S. Representative
03.30.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - In celebration of Women's History Month, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) introduced the Honoring Female Pioneers Act today that creates a U.S. postage stamp honoring four female Congressional pioneers: Jeannette Rankin (R-MT), Mary Teresa Norton (D-NJ), Patsy Mink (D-HI), and Shirley Chisholm (D-NY). The funds raised from the stamp will benefit the Capitol Preservation Commission (CPC) and the House Fine Arts Board to help raise private funds to pay for artwork representing the contributions of women to America to be displayed in the Capitol and the new Capitol Visitors Center. This stamp will be a "semi-postal" stamp similar to the Breast Cancer stamp that has helped raise funds for breast cancer research. "These postage stamps would recognize the women whose path-breaking efforts secured a working wage, represented the minority voice, and achieved a women's right to vote," said Kaptur. "These Congressional pioneers have made great contributions to our country's history." In 1916, Jeannette Rankin broke new ground by becoming the first woman -- and first Republican woman -- elected to the House of Representatives, representing the State of Montana, first from 1917 to 1919 and later from 1941 to 1943. In 1924, Mary Teresa Norton became the first Democratic woman elected to the House of Representatives -- and one of a small number of women during that period who were elected in their own right and not to replace their husbands -- representing New Jersey's Twelfth Congressional District from 1925 to 1951. In 1964, Patsy Takemoto Mink became the first Asian-American woman elected to the House of Representatives, representing Hawaii's Second Congressional District from 1965 to 1977 and again from 1991 until her death in 2002. In 1968, Shirley Anita St. Hill Chisholm made history by becoming the first African-American woman elected to the House of Representatives, representing New York's Twelfth Congressional District until her retirement in 1983. As the senior-most Democratic woman in the House, Kaptur has worked to raise awareness for the need for more art in the Capitol that is reflective of women's contributions to American society. She was appointed by Leader Pelosi to serve on the CPC, which has oversight on improvements in the Capitol, including the Capitol Visitors Center; membership consists of Congressional leaders from both the House and Senate. Co-sponsors of the bill include: Dennis Rehberg (R-At Large MT, district formerly represented by Jeannette Rankin), Major Owens (D-NY, district formerly represented by Shirley Chisholm), Ed Case (D-HI, district formerly represented by Patsy Mink), Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi, Shelley Berkley (D-NV), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Juanita Millender-McDonald (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Hilda Solis (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA).
03.16.2006	"This amendment would have allowed Congress to oversee exactly how the billions in taxpayer dollars are being spent in Iraq and in the Gulf Coast," said Kaptur. "Though the Republican leadership did not allow a vote on this amendment, it remains critical that Congress curtail the opportunities for waste, fraud, and abuse in federal contracting." The Truman Committee or the Select Committee to Investigate the National Defense Program held 432 public hearings and 300 executive sessions, conducted hundreds of fact-finding missions, issued 51 reports and saved the taxpayers billions of dollars. "The need for a modern-day Truman Commission could not be clearer. This amendment is a responsible, good government amendment. It provides a means for oversight that is thorough not anecdotal. This is a failure by Congress to exercise its most basic responsibility - the power of the purse." According to the Inspector General, $8.8 billion of Iraq funds intended for reconstruction are unaccounted for and as many as fifty investigations were opened involving contractor fraud, kickbacks, bribery, and waste. Currently, no Committee in this House has full investigative authority to probe the growing public concerns.
03.15.2006	"The U.S. Department of Agriculture is the federal agency charged with responding to problems created by invasive species, such as the Emerald Ash Borer, and has not followed Congressional directives," said Kaptur. "I hope the Bush Administration's approach to this crisis will not be the same as to the hurricane-ravaged Gulf: denial of what really is needed to get the job done, and denial that what has been thus far has been too little too late." In a session before the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, Kaptur pressed Dr. Chuck Lambert USDA Undersecretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, to use all sources of funding to deal with the Emerald Ash Borer. Funding for controlling invasive species comes from two sources: appropriated dollars provided in annual appropriation bills, and other emergency authorities granted to USDA. She obtained the agreement of the USDA officials responsible for control to meet with key Ohio stakeholders. Kaptur also read aloud from a letter she received from Ohio Department of Agriculture Director Fred Dailey in which he wrote; "...we are on the verge of an ecological disaster. ... This is a ticking time bomb for cities and municipalities that will be strapped with the costs of ash tree removal and problems associated with disposal of such a large quantity of ash material." Kaptur added "The Subcommittee provided $10 million for Emerald Ash Borer control in the fiscal 2006 appropriations bill with committee directions that this money be considered a supplement to and not in lieu of CCC Emergency Expenditures. Undersecretary Lambert acknowledged this fact, and committed to continue to work to secure the release of emergency funds to effectively deal with the pest." She also pointed to the fact that since treatment for EAB first began in 2003, 91% of the money spent on control efforts has come from this emergency fund with Michigan having received $44.6 million while Ohio has received only $20.9 million through fiscal 2005. The Ohio Department of Agriculture has estimated that it needs $50 million this year to effectively deal with the problem, but has so far received assurances of receiving only a portion of the $10 million appropriated, with no word about the emergency funding. Kaptur stressed the need to develop treatments to control the insect that do not require the cutting down of all Ash trees within a half-mile radius of infestation, as is currently the protocol. "There are neighborhoods that look like they have had massive haircuts with all of the trees removed. Many people question why there isn't an alternative control strategy. I agree and urged USDA to expand research to develop alternative control methods. "Toledo holds the distinction of having the most trees of any urban area in Ohio. The Emerald Ash Borer poses a critical threat to such precious assets as the campus of Lourdes College, our metroparks, wildlife refuges, and our shorelines. Ineffective action by the federal government is not an option," Kaptur concluded.
03.09.2006	"To ignore the public outcry over this ill conceived plan is absolutely irresponsible," said Kaptur. "The American people elected us to do something when an issue like this comes up." Last afternoon, Republicans voted to block consideration of a bill that would have immediately stopped the Bush-Dubai ports deal. Democrats are fighting for real port security to stop the Bush-Dubai deal and to prevent future contracts allowing foreign governments such as U.A.E. or China to operate U.S. ports and other critical infrastructure. "President Bush is putting backroom, special interest contracts ahead of strong homeland security for the American people," continued Kaptur. "This ports contract was a bad deal for national security when it involved six major American seaports - now it turns out the company would operate in 22 U.S. ports, far more than the Bush Administration said were included in the deal." The Appropriations Committee voted 62-2 to bar Dubai Ports World from holding contracts at U.S. ports. The committee attached the ports language to a $91 billion funding bill for hurricane recovery and wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The full House could consider that measure as early as next week. President Bush has promised to veto any such measure passed by Congress. On February 23, Kaptur called for investigations by both the House Government Reform Committee and the Treasury Inspector General into the Bush Administration's approval of the management of U.S. ports by Dubai Ports World. Kaptur has also asked the Treasury Inspector General to review any conflict of interest regarding the participation of Treasury Secretary John Snow who chairs the Committee on Foreign Investments, the group which approved the recent contract with Dubai Ports World.
02.27.2006	TOLEDO, OHIO -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) reminded working families today at the Margaret Hunt Community Center that they may be eligible for a credit "refund" on their taxes through the Earned Income Tax Credit. Kaptur pointed out where local Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) sites are available to provide free tax preparations. The Margaret Hunt Community Center is a VITA site. "So many of our citizens work hard but still can't pay skyrocketing bills for such basics as food, and medicine, gasoline and utilities," said Kaptur. "Check to see if you are eligible for the earned income tax credit through the Internal Revenue Service to return to you some of your hard-earned dollars to meet the cost of living." The earned income tax credit, or EITC, was created by Congress in 1975 to assist working families. It's a refundable credit, which means taxpayers can use the credit of up to $4,400 to offset any taxes they owe and still get a cash refund for the excess. "If your household earned between one dollar and thirty-five thousand dollars this past year, you may qualify for this valuable credit," said Kaptur. "Call today. You've earned it." The VITA Program offers free tax help for low-to moderate-income (approximately $38,000) people who cannot prepare their own tax returns. Volunteers, sponsored by various organizations, receive training to help prepare basic tax returns in communities across the country. VITA sites are generally located at community and neighborhood centers, libraries, schools, shopping malls, and other convenient locations. Some locations also offer free electronic filing. According to the Internal Revenue Service, each year millions of people who qualify for this credit do not apply for it. The maximum credits are $4,400 for taxpayers with two or more children, $2,662 for those with one child and $399 for those with no children. The qualifying income limits vary by the size of the family: $35,263 for a parent with two or more children, or $37,263 for those who are married and filing joint returns; $31,030 for a parent with one child, or $33,030 for those married and filing jointly; $11,750 for a person with no children, or $13,750 for those married and filing jointly. During the 2004 tax year, there were 766,126 recipients of the earned income tax credit in Ohio who received a total credit of $1,362,184,717. Nationally, 21.1 million people received the credit totaling $39 billion. Families can obtain free help from IRS operators during business hours by calling 1-800-829-1040. Please call Congresswoman Kaptur's office for additional assistance at 1-800-964-4699 or (419) 259-7500. Fact Sheet: Items to bring to the VITA Sites to have tax returns prepared: Must bring photo identification Social Security Cards for the Taxpayer, their spouse and dependents, if applicable Birth Dates for primary, secondary and dependents on the tax return Current year's tax package if they received one Wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, from all employers Interest and dividend statements from banks (Forms 1099) A copy of last year's Federal and State returns if available Bank Routing Numbers and Account Numbers for Direct Deposit Other relevant information about income and expenses Total Amount Paid for Day Care Day Care providers Identifying number To file taxes electronically on a married filing joint tax return, both spouses must be present to sign the required forms.
02.23.2006	TOLEDO, OHIO - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), a strong opponent of the outsourcing of U.S. port operations to foreign owned firms, today called for investigations by both the House Government Reform Committee and the Treasury Inspector General into the Bush Administration's approval of the management of U.S. ports by Dubai Ports World. Kaptur also asked the Treasury Inspector General to review any conflict of interest regarding the participation of Treasury Secretary John Snow who chairs the Committee on Foreign Investments, the group which approved the recent contract with Dubai Ports World. In a letter sent today to House Government Reform Committee Chairman Tom Davis and Ranking Member Henry Waxman, Kaptur urged the committee to conduct a series of hearings to explore these matters to determine whether appropriate processes were followed, conflicts of interest explored, and whether or not American companies were solicited in this process. "The Treasury agreement raises serious ethical questions regarding those directly responsible for this decision," wrote Kaptur. "In particular, given that Dubai Ports World acquired CSX World Terminals in 2004 for $1.15 billion, a company of which Secretary of the Treasury John Snow was Chairman prior to coming to the Administration, should raise questions about both the acquisition of the CSX port operations and the recent awarding of the contract." Now, as chair of the U.S. Treasury Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., Secretary Snow and the Treasury Department had lead authority in approving the Dubai transaction. Secretary Snow holds a deferred compensation package and a special retirement pension from his days as CEO of CSX Corporation. In 2004, CSX World Terminals was acquired by Dubai Ports World, the successful bidder on this contract "Given that Secretary Snow had previously disclosed a deferred compensation package with CSX valued at between $5 and $25 million and $33.2 million from a special retirement pension, one would expect that any financial benefit from the sale of CSX World Terminals to Dubai Ports World, including any stock holdings, would have been revealed, especially if there might be any residual from subsequent actions such as these," Kaptur stated in her request of the Treasury Inspector General. The Congresswoman added, "the President's assertion that he had polled his Cabinet Secretary's on the Dubai deal, causes concern for me that at least one, Secretary Snow, should have removed himself from the decision given his business connection to CSX and Dubai." Kaptur went on to say that United Arab Emirates doesn't share America's political values, pointing out that the country is an undemocratic nation that cannot assure infiltrators will not breach security. "On 9-11, two members of the hijack team that simultaneously downed the twin towers in New York City and killed hundreds of Americans at the Pentagon were from the Emirates," said Kaptur. "As the 9-11 Commission reported, those same terrorists laundered much of the money for their operation through UAE controlled banks."
02.21.2006	Toledo, Ohio - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today announced that she has successfully garnered federal support totaling $7.5 million dollars to return shipbuilding and repair jobs to the Toledo Shipyard. Kaptur made the announcement as the Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority reached agreement for a new, locally owned firm to operate the historic shipyard following the departure of the Manitowoc Company last year. Manitowoc's departure left the shipyard idle. "Today, we join hands with our new partner, Ironhead Marine, Inc. as our community makes an investment in new jobs through economic development on our Great Lakes, right here in the Port of Toledo," said Kaptur. "To commercial shippers and mariners, this is especially good news as Toledo becomes the only operating full service shipyard on the lower Great Lakes." Kaptur, a member of the influential House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the news of an additional investment of $4 million which she successfully included in the Defense Appropriations bill earlier this year. The new funds, coupled with $3.5 million dollars secured by Kaptur in the 2002 and 2003 Department of Defense and Housing and Urban Development funding bills, brings the total federal investment to $7.5 million dollars and will allow the Port Authority to move forward with plans to construct a new "high-bay" facility on its East Toledo shipyard property. The funds will also allow for significant renovations to existing facilities there, creating as many as 150 construction jobs and 200 new shipbuilding jobs in 2006 and 2007. When completed, the high bay facility will allow for all season construction and ship repair on the site making it one of the most advanced such sites on the Great Lakes. Federal funding will comprise nearly 70% of the first phase of construction and renovations. Lucas County and the City of Toledo have also committed $1 million and $1.5 million respectively for the high bay construction project. "This great announcement of new jobs and a new business partner at the Toledo Port will translate into millions of dollars for construction and shipbuilding jobs here at our historic shipyard," said Kaptur. "Placing emphasis on "winterizing" our shipbuilding capabilities with an enclosed high bay facility makes our shipyard a year round destination for ship repair and shipbuilding again. This giant step forward holds the potential to trigger the rebirth of new shipbuilding and vessel repairs capacity on the Great Lakes, centered at Toledo, the crossroads of the Great Lakes." Kaptur concluded with remarks about a Bush Administration approved proposal to put the operation of several major U.S. ports in the hands of a Dubai based corporation adding, "As Americans witness with alarm the Bush Administration approval of the operations of strategic U.S. ports in our nation to Dubai Ports World -- a move which I oppose and will fight to overturn in Congress -- our investment here in U.S. shipbuilding capability to underpin economic and national security becomes even more important. The Great Lakes is America's 4th, and longest, seacoast. As America struggles to regain a firmer foothold in shipbuilding and shipping with other sea lanes like the Panama Canal and the Pacific looming as heavyweight, global competitors, it is incumbent upon us to do what we can to secure capability here."
02.13.2006	Toledo, Ohio -- Calling it "a Real Valentine" for area youth and families, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) announced $200,000 in federal support today to the Connecting Point, an intervention and treatment facility in Toledo. The award contributed to the facility's plans to expand and renovate its Cherry Street campus buildings. This is part of a two-phase initiative over the next three years that will include the addition of a residential facility. It will allow residential services for both genders and the integration of a residential and intensive outpatient treatment center for youth with a dual diagnosis of mental health and substance abuse. "I applaud the caring work of the Connecting Point board, and staff, in their unwavering commitment to improving the lives of each of our areas youth," said Kaptur. "Our community believes in the potential of every young person. By securing a firmer foundation for them in their early years, we know we will save lives. We also will see the benefit of this critical life-saving facility providing at risk youth the chance to grow into contributing members of society." Statistics show that 25 percent of youth experience mental health or substance abuse problems. Many times these diagnoses are interlinked as youth wrongly try to self-medicate with alcohol or street drugs. In the greater Toledo area, nearly 30,000 youth do not graduate from high school and many of these youth have spent time with the juvenile criminal system. This award resulted from legislation passed by the Congresswoman as part of the Housing and Urban Development (HUD)/Economic Development Initiative (EDI program for Fiscal Year 2006.) Kaptur joined Connecting Point director, Jeff Deckebach, for today's award announcement. "We really appreciate Marcy's support and we know it will be a great addition to our community." Said Deckebach, "We hope that Marcy will be as proud of this project for the kids and families of Toledo and northwest Ohio as we are." Kaptur added, "I would like to call upon our community to offer its assistance to youth served by Connecting Point and help match this support so every young person has a chance to succeed in living a full life." Connecting Point is the largest child and youth-focused social service agency in northwest Ohio. It is the treatment provider for youth participating in the Lucas County Juvenile Drug Court. The organization offers a broad range of prevention, advocacy, and treatment services for children, youth, and families.
02.10.2006	"The United States becomes more and more beholden to foreign interests that are financing these deficits," continued Kaptur. "We are not only shipping jobs overseas, we are shipping billions of dollars in interest payments on U.S. debt now held by foreign interests. Is it is no surprise that retailing of foreign goods is now America's biggest business." Kaptur has introduced the Balancing Trade Act of 2005 (HR 4405) which will require the President to take action when America faces deficits like we see today. It would mandate that the President correct these imbalanced trading relationships with any nation where our deficit with them would equal $10 billion for 3 consecutive years. "Every year, with all the unfair trade agreements that have been signed, the red ink just keeps getting deeper. We are hemorrhaging America's good jobs, with fewer people working at good jobs to create real wealth," said Kaptur. Through November of 2005 the United States had already broken the previous year's record of $618 billion. Today's numbers mark the fourth consecutive year that America's trade deficit has set a record. "Alan Greenspan warned that this relentless growth in the trade deficit cannot persist," said Kaptur. "How long will it be before we put a foreclosure sign on our U.S. Department of the Treasury? What an embarrassment for a Nation founded in independence. "There are signs that the President is finally realizing the importance of energy independence, but he also needs to understand how these record trade deficits threaten our independence. What will it take for him to pay attention to a crisis that is stifling real economic growth and shipping American jobs overseas?"
01.31.2006	"America prospers when all of her people prosper, and America thrives when the President offers real leadership for the most difficult challenges we face. With that as our measure President Bush's remarks tonight fell far from the mark. We need an America that is job rich, debt free, energy independent, and has its trade accounts on an equal level. Yet words alone cannot fix what the republic requires. "In his State of the Union address tonight, he discussed reducing the country's dependence on foreign oil. Sadly, he is at least 6 years late, with his recent special interest energy bill just a throwback to the last century when big oil dominated. His budgets have prevented our nation from moving into a new energy age. For hard hit consumers, he has offered nothing but bigger profits for the oil giants, like Exxon Mobil that just racked up the largest profits in U.S. history today. Indeed their $36.13 billion in profits in just one year is larger than the entire budget of the U.S. Energy Department at $23.4 billion. "During the Bush Administration, big oil companies and gas companies not only have reaped record profits but received billions in new tax subsidies. Yet our consumers and farmers are struggling to get by. Home heating costs are 25 percent higher this winter and the average price for a gallon of gas has increased 89 cents since President Bush took office. So, the President's proposals tonight appear to be more of the same empty promises we've heard before. "Over the years this President has consistently proposed cutting alternative fuels programs that could replace our reliance on imported petroleum. Last year he proposed cutting $64.5 million in the Department of Agriculture's already limited budget for biofuels. Two years ago he proposed cutting these programs $72 million. Three years ago he proposed cutting $70 million. "It's far past time for a President of the United States to power a new future for our nation by putting our revenues in the pockets of local farmers and fuel processors, not in the hands of foreign oil regimes that he himself calls "unstable". We must not wait any longer to help future generations when we have the ability today to build a new domestic renewable energy industry that will create thousands of jobs and provide an economic opportunity for our farmers, as well as a new product for our transport industry. The proof that President Bush is serious this time will be if alternative fuels are placed centerfold in the budget he will release next week. "Biodiesel and other alternative fuels require a national commitment, not just in word but in deed. America needs an energy policy that invests in the Midwest, not the Middle East."
01.25.2006	TOLEDO, OHIO - Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) released the following statement in response to data released today showing that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) turned away nearly 10,000 (see page 2) Ohio veterans who applied for VA health care in FY 2005 due to the Administration's enrollment ban. More than 260,000 veterans nationwide applied to receive health care at the VA but were turned away because of the Bush Administration's cost-cutting decision to limit veterans' access to VA hospitals, clinics and medications. Kaptur has joined congressional Democrats in calling on President Bush to seek adequate funding in FY 2007 to allow these veterans to get care and medications at the VA. The Administration will submit its budget request to the Congress on February 6. The statement follows: "The cornerstone at the Department of Veterans Affairs from the time of Abraham Lincoln has read: 'To care for them who shall have borne the battle, their widows, and their orphans.' Why can this Administration not keep that promise? "Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, and the World War II, Korean, Vietnam, and Persian Gulf War vets who served in years past are lined up, waiting to get into the VA health care system. We know we need additional funds for veterans' health care. We seem to be able to find money for everything else, yet the Administration cannot get it right, or does not want to get it right on veterans care. "Democrats in Congress have worked to secure expanded health benefits to veterans, guardsmen and reservists, by supporting increases in hardship benefits, imminent danger pay, the elimination of out-of-pocket housing expenses, and family separation allowance. We will not stop fighting until our veterans get the benefits they have earned." Kaptur is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and until last year, when she was elected to the coveted House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, has consistently served on the Veterans' committees. Her bill to create the National World War II Memorial, a 17-year effort from start to finish, was dedicated in 2004. Fact Sheet Data from the Department of Veterans Affairs indicates that the VA turned away nearly 10,000 Ohio veterans who applied for VA health care in FY 2005 due to the Administration's enrollment ban [state-by-state list follows]. Congresswoman Kaptur said she is concerned that the number of veterans shut out of VA health care is considerably larger because veterans are discouraged from even applying for care. STATE-BY-STATE IMPACT OF ENROLLMENT BAN IN FY 2005 Number of veterans in each state and territory who applied for VA-provided health care and who were refused enrollment in FY 2005 because of the Administration's decision to bar access for new Priority 8 veterans. AK 578 AL 5,004 AR 4,983 AZ 5,835 CA 17,378 CO 3,599 CT 2,651 DC 164 DE 877 FL 27,465 GA 7,062 HI 710 IA 4,762 ID 1,608 IL 8,944 IN 5,700 KS 2,878 KY 4,506 LA 4,893 MA 3,509 MD 3,051 ME 2,403 MI 5,942 MN 5,319 MO 5,552 MS 4,308 MT 1,956 NC 10,405 ND 927 NE 1,991 NH 1,434 NJ 4,808 NM 1,851 NV 2,111 NY 9,357 OH 9,764 OK 4,013 OR 4,162 PA 13,262 RI 1,045 SC 5,964 SD 1,201 TN 6,165 TX 19,204 UT 1,361 VA 5,459 VT 751 WA 4,584 WI 6,622 WV 2,550 WY 777 Guam/Puerto Rico/ Virgin Islands 1,059 Unknown/ Other Territory 793 TOTAL: 263,257 Note: A new priority 8 veteran does not receive a monetary VA benefit for a service-connected disability; has an income that is above the established national and geographic threshold; and, applied for enrollment after January 17, 2003. In 2005, the national income means threshold for a single veteran was $25,842. The geographic means threshold for 2005 by state and county can be found at the VA's Web site at https://www.va.gov/healtheligibility/costs/docs/GMT_Income_Thresholds_2004.pdf Data from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
01.17.2006	Whitehouse, Ohio -- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) visited Bittersweet Farms today, a treatment facility for individuals with autism, to announce a $1.3 housing award for the construction of 12 new residential units on the organization's property in Whitehouse, Ohio. The award will allow the facility to serve more adults in a residential setting. Currently, over 100 adults are on the waiting list and the expansion of the facility will alleviate the waiting time for admission to the program. The new housing initiative will be called the Bettye Ruth Kay Homes in honor of Bittersweet's founder, and will be located in the western field of the farm on the south end nearest Archbold-Whitehouse Road. Preferred Properties, Inc. helped to prepare the grant application and will act as developer. "Thanks to organizations like Bittersweet, families of autism will benefit from this expanded treatment model in the spirit that Bettye Ruth Kay intended," said Kaptur. "I believe sufficient resources must be allocated to ensure that individuals with autism receive the care they need and are able to reach some level of independence. Researchers are making exciting advances into autism and our communities are becoming increasingly aware of the complexity of this disorder." The award comes from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Section 811, Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program. Kaptur has served for nearly twenty years on housing committees and is a member of the Congressional Autism Caucus in the House of Representatives. In 2000, Kaptur secured a grant to Swanton Township for infrastructure for Bittersweet Farms and Camp Courageous, a summer camp for mentally retarded and developmentally disabled children and adults which is also located in Whitehouse, for Fiscal Year 2001 from U.S. EPA through the formerly-titled VA, HUD & Independent Agencies Appropriations bill. The money was used for a water line to serve the two institutions that had been using wells and therefore were not able to grow. Bittersweet Farms was created by a concerned group of parents, community leaders, and professionals in 1977 and has grown to an 80-acre site serving 21 individuals in the residential program, nine individuals in a supported living unit, 40 individuals in a day program, 15 individuals in a summer program, and six individuals in a supported employment program.