04.20.2019	Rep. Babin with the 36th Congressional District’s 2019 Congressional Art Competition Winner (L to R: Tyra Baxter, Teacher; Rep. Babin; Julian Lopez, winner; and family). DEER PARK, TX – On Saturday, April 13, 2019, U.S. Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) hosted an awards ceremony at the University of Houston-Clear Lake to announce the winners and honor the students who participated in the 36th Congressional District’s 2019 Congressional Art Competition. This year's competition, which included more than 50 entries from high school students across the district, followed the theme of “Southeast Texas Wildlife.” First place was awarded to Julian Lopez of Crosby High School for his incredible artwork titled “Ocean Lurker,” which will now be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for an entire year. “I would like to congratulate Julian Lopez and thank each of the talented students who participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition as well as the art teachers and families that supported them throughout this process,” said Babin. “We have so many great artists in TX-36, and I am extremely proud to show their work to visitors from both our district and different parts of the country when we pass by the national display in the U.S. Capitol.” 2019 Congressional Art Competition Awards: First Place: Julian Lopez (Crosby High School) Second Place: Ciara Pratt (Clear Falls High School) Third Place: Grace Hawley (Clear Falls High School) Honorable Mentions: Lydia Covey (Home School); Gavin Burns (Crosby); Carre Cox (Hardin-Jefferson); Jordan Boettger (The Academy of Viola DeWalt -La Porte); Jesse Hargrave (Warren); Brandon Scogin (Orangefield); Alexis Swafford (Woodville); Troy Conner (Warren); Avery Gore (Kirbyville); Le’Ana Martinez (Orangefield); and Fredy Rubio (Crosby) Participating Schools: Clear Falls, Covey Home School, Crosby, Hardin-Jefferson, Jasper, Kirbyville, Orangefield, Soli Deo Gloria Academy, Valentine Home School, Warren, and Woodville ###
04.19.2019	DEER PARK, TX – On Monday, April 15, U.S. Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) attended Baytown Christian Academy’s State Championship Banquet honoring the Bulldogs for winning both the Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools' (TAPPS) football and boys basketball state championships for the 2018-2019 school year. Rep. Babin presented a copy of the statement he entered into the Congressional Record, honoring both teams, to each of the athletes, trainers, and coaches in attendance. “The hard-work and dedication shown by Baytown Christian led to the great feat of being the only team in the entire State of Texas to win both the football and boys basketball championships this school year,” said Babin. “I thoroughly enjoyed meeting each of the athletes, coaches, trainers, and cheerleaders as well as their proud families and friends. This is a talented group of young people, and I wish each of them continued success in the classroom and in sports.” With this Congressional Record entry, there will always be a record of the Bulldog’s state championship victories in the Library of Congress as long as the United States stands. To view the statement in full, please click here. ###
04.15.2019	WOODVILLE, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-Texas), released the following statement regarding Rep. Ilhan Omar’s (D-Minn.) “some people did something” comment. "Rep. Ilhan Omar said 'some people did something' on 9/11. The truth is 19 radical Islamic terrorists murdered nearly 3,000 innocent Americans on 9/11, 2001. She also said 'the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) was founded after 9/11/01.’ I must admit I am surprised to find myself as a fact checker on this matter, but CAIR was founded in 1994. So that should tell you right away how much thought she put into this speech. If Rep. Omar was a private citizen living in Minneapolis posting on Facebook that would be one thing, but she is one of 435 in the United States House of Representatives. Her words matter and she should not get a pass on them just because she is new to Congress. “Let me be clear, this is not about her faith. Throughout my tenure in Congress I have served with Rep. Andre Carson, who is also a practicing Muslim Congress member. He and Rep. Omar are both very liberal and we rarely agree on the major issues of the day. The difference between him and Rep. Omar is that every week she manages to sow discord with half-baked and offensive commentary. It is very disturbing to me that a Member of Congress would diminish one of the greatest tragedies our country has ever seen and insult the victims and the families of those whose lives were changed forever on that day. “It is often said that those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. We are now seeing a generation come of age that was not alive in 2001. Although 9/11 was 18 years ago, we must never let the events of that day to be papered over with generic words that downplay the significance of the attack on America and all we hold dear. It is our duty to enlighten them, to keep the reality and the memory of 9/11 alive and strong in our minds to prevent a similar event from ever happening again.” ###
04.10.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement after reintroducing the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act of 2019 today. This legislation, also referred to as the “Forts to Ports” bill, will extend the future I-14 interstate highway to additional areas in Texas and along the Gulf Coast. This bill will further connect key military installations to strategic seaports, enhancing their readiness as well as America’s national security. The I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act builds upon the original designation, written by Rep. Babin as part of the 2015 FAST Act highway bill, of the Central Texas Corridor as the future I-14, and does not eliminate any currently authorized routes. This bill authorizes most of this new interstate route using the general pattern of existing roads and highways, while leaving the final determination about the exact interstate path up to state and local officials who know their communities best. Many provisions of the 2015 FAST Act are scheduled to expire starting next year, which will likely require passage of a new, comprehensive surface transportation bill during the 116th Congress (2019-2020). The expected consideration of this next “Highway Bill” presents an ideal opportunity to ultimately get this I-14 language signed into law by President Trump. “As the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial is finally being built in Washington, I can’t think of a more fitting way to honor him than to pass this legislation that furthers his vision of creating an interstate system that connects America’s military assets, businesses, and communities from coast to coast,” said Babin. “I-14 is already known as the ‘Forts to Ports’ highway, and our goal is to build upon that success with further improvements, including a nonstop interstate connection from Goodfellow Air Force Base in West Texas to the strategic seaport in Beaumont. I-14 will finally give countless communities access to the benefits of an interstate highway, with a design and implementation process run by state and local transportation authorities, not Washington bureaucrats. Even in this time of divided government, I believe this is the kind of project that Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate can work together with the Trump Administration on to accomplish.” Joining Rep. Babin as original cosponsors of the bill are Reps. Mike Conaway (TX-11), Randy Weber (TX-14), John Carter (TX-31), Roger Williams (TX-25), Kevin Brady (TX-08), Bill Flores, (TX-17), Mike Johnson (LA-04), Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Michael Guest (MS-03), and Steven Palazzo (MS-04). “As our economy continues to grow, it’s critical that we continue building the infrastructure needed to support it,” said Conaway. “The I-14 expansion through San Angelo to Midland provides a safer route for travelers in the area, and directly connects the Permian Basin – the top oil and gas producing region in the world – with one of the largest ports in the country. This route also establishes a clear route between military installations in Texas, connecting Goodfellow Air Force Base in the 11th District with Fort Hood, Fort Bliss, and the strategic seaports on the Gulf Coast. Access to an interstate highway is imperative to the continued development of West Texas, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this proposal a reality.” “This legislation serves to fortify the roads leading to our nation’s strategic ports,” said Weber. “Our ports transport our service members and their supplies, an incredible amount of energy, and so much more. They move our goods to and from the heartland. The importance of transportation and infrastructure cannot be overstated.” “As a representative of Ft. Hood, I’ve witnessed the results of the I-14 expansion in my own district, and I’m pleased to join my colleagues in support of the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act,” said Carter. “Expansion of Interstate 14, known as the “Forts to Ports” corridor, would not only improve readiness and efficiency within our military, but also provide exponential benefits for TX-31 communities that are growing in population daily by expanding access to an east-to-west interstate highway system.” “Interstate 14 not only represents the future of mobility in Texas, but the future of security for our country,” said Williams. “The Forts to Ports project is essential to better preparing for the defense of our nation and shows America’s commitment to defending freedom around the world. The improvements this project will make will significantly enhance Fort Hood’s ability to meet our national security objectives. I am proud to once again cosponsor the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act.” “As an original cosponsor of the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act, I support Representative Babin’s efforts to expand and improve the 1-14 interstate highway,” said Brady. “Extending this transportation infrastructure will facilitate travel between key military bases and ports and increase rural communities’ access to interstate highways, all while respecting state and local autonomy.” “Extending I-14 will benefit countless cities across many Southern states,” said Johnson. Specifically, in Louisiana, Leesville and Fort Polk will gain greater access to important resources further enhancing our military capabilities and readiness. I thank my good friend and colleague, Rep. Babin, for leading this effort and stand ready to support him in whatever way we can to ensure this critical bill crosses the finish line.” “I-14 will provide exciting new economic development opportunities across Central Louisiana, and it will help better connect Fort Polk to the rest of our nation’s southern military installations and deployment ports,” said Abraham. “I’m proud to cosponsor this bill, and I look forward to working with Congressman Babin and other colleagues to get this designation.” “This legislation paves the way for endless economic opportunities in our region,” said Palazzo. “By approving this designation, we can spur development and connect our military installments to our ports and large commerce centers located throughout the route. I look forward to seeing the designation give Mississippi’s transportation routes a competitive edge.” Click here to view the bill text. ###
04.03.2019	DEER PARK, TX – After being made aware that large numbers of airplanes owned by foreign nationals are registered to two P.O. Boxes in Onalaska, a tight-knit East Texas community without an airport, U.S. Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) has co-sponsored the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2019 (H.R. 393). Upon speaking with his colleagues in Congress, Rep. Babin learned a loophole in federal law allows foreigners to register their airplane with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) by transferring a title to a U.S. trustee. The Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2019, a bipartisan piece of legislation that will address this situation, is authored by Rep. Babin’s Democratic colleague on the U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA-08). “It is deeply troubling that there is little information available about who actually owns these airplanes. This issue not only affects Southeast Texas, but the entire nation,” said Babin. “It should not take more documentation for an American citizen to obtain a Texas driver’s license, or board a commercial airline flight, than the FAA requires of a foreign national to register an airplane. The American people have the right to know who is flying in and above our country. I look forward to working with Rep. Lynch to shepherd this legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk for his signature.” “We need a complete overhaul of the system,” said Lynch. “In 2013 the DoT Inspector General released an audit examining the FAA’s Civil Registry and found incomplete registrations for approximately 54% of aircrafts owned under trusts for non-U.S. citizens. We have witnessed associates of Hezbollah, a listed terrorist organization, as well as drug traffickers and others who have exploited the aircraft registration process to legally own and operate aircraft within the United States. This is crazy. Make no mistake, anyone trying to conceal the ownership of an aircraft is not doing so out of good intentions. It should be obvious after 9/11 that aircrafts can become weapons that can inflict serious damage, and this very reasonable piece of legislation will help protect the American people from potential drug dealers and terrorists. I look forward to working with my colleagues, including my friend Rep. Brian Babin from East Texas, to move the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2019 into law.” ###
03.27.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor today to address those who believe Joe Biden should be the next President of the United States. “Former Vice President Joe Biden has been in the news a lot lately, along with the predictable narrative that he has a distinguished record on matters of foreign policy,” said Babin. “But if you actually look at his record, you’ll see that the opposite is true. As former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said, “I think [Biden] has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.” In his speech, Babin outlines Biden’s four decades of getting things wrong in Washington as a U.S. Senator and Vice President. Including: 1) Biden’s opposition to the Reagan policies of the 80’s that broke the Soviet Union and led to the end of the Cold War; 2) Biden’s opposition to the 1991 Gulf War that liberated Kuwait, widely regarded as one of the most justified and successful military operations in modern American history; 3) Biden’s flip-flop on his support for the 2003 Iraq War, and his prediction that “The Surge” of troops would make things worse for American forces in that conflict; and 4) Biden’s final piece of advice to President Obama when weighing the decision to authorize the mission that killed Osama Bin Laden: “Mr. President, my suggestion is, don’t go.” ###
03.22.2019	WOODVILLE, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) participated in four working meetings with law enforcement leaders from across his nine-county district this week. The meetings were attended by dozens of seasoned lawmen and women with decades of expertise including the U.S. Marshal Service, Texas Rangers, County Sheriffs and Constables, Police Chiefs, and other representatives from local police departments and schools. Discussed in the meetings was Babin’s bipartisan Threat Assessment, Prevention, and Safety Act (TAPS) Act which was recently reintroduced. The TAPS Act promotes utilizing the process of Behavioral Threat Assessment and Management (BTAM) for determining the credibility and seriousness of potential threats and interrupting and managing those on a pathway to violence. For decades this process has been in place to identify, investigate, assess, and mitigate threats in order to counter targeted violence. Pioneered by the U.S. Secret Service, BTAM has proven successful in protecting our presidents and foreign dignitaries. “As we approach the 20th anniversary of the Columbine High School tragedy, it is unfathomable to think we still are not doing enough to prevent the indiscriminate shootings, stabbings, bombings and other mass casualty events occurring all too often in our schools and communities,” said Babin. Thankfully, we’ve found a bipartisan solution. Our local leaders and law enforcement are the professionals with the boots on the ground who have dedicated their lives to protecting our communities from violence, and I am thrilled to have received their overwhelmingly positive support for the TAPS Act.” To learn more about the TAPS Act, please visit www.babin.house.gov/taps. ###
02.23.2019	WOODVILLE, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement after today’s cargo jet crash outside Baytown, TX. “I was saddened to learn of the cargo jet crash Saturday afternoon in our Congressional district outside Baytown. I express my sincerest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. We should be thankful for the local and federal officials who rushed to the scene and will continue working in the coming days and weeks to assist at the crash site. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is leading an investigation into the crash, and my office and I will remain in contact with NTSB and other authorities as we seek the cause of this crash and work to prevent similar tragedies in the future.” ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to use a national emergency declaration to secure our southern border: “I fully support the President’s decision to declare a national emergency to address the humanitarian and national security crisis on our southern border. Congress has let partisanship and politics come before protecting the people, and the President’s actions are necessary for our national security. I’ve visited the border multiple times over the past year and have seen the crisis firsthand. More must be done to protect America’s sovereignty and its citizens. “If I could go to the border myself to help build the wall I would, and I believe many Americans feel the same way. President Trump is following through on his promise to keep America first and its people safe. I wish Congress had the same priorities.”
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement after voting against the conference report to fund the government. “I am very disappointed that the conference report to fully fund our government comes nowhere close to addressing the humanitarian and security crisis at our border and, in reality, takes several steps backwards. It includes neither the funding levels nor specific provisions our border security professionals say is necessary, and limitations on how we can spend what little funding it ostensibly sets aside for barriers will prohibit most of it from ever being spent. Further, language in the bill incentivizes even more illegality by hamstringing law enforcement’s ability to detain those illegally crossing our border. It will also exacerbate the worsening humanitarian problem of criminals bringing unaccompanied minors on the dangerous trek across Mexico to avoid deportation by claiming phony guardianship. We all want to reopen the government, but we can’t give away the farm to do it. This bill will do nothing significant to secure our borders and will in fact set back our border and national security efforts, therefore I cannot support it. ###
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) will once again host a Congressional Art Competition in 2019. Students in grades 9-12 wishing to participate must reside within the 36th Congressional District of Texas. All entries must follow the theme “Southeast Texas Wildlife”, and depictions may include wild game animals, birds, fish, marine animals, or endangered species indigenous to Southeast Texas. Teachers or home school students must submit an intent to apply application no later than Friday, Feb. 15. The first place recipient must be able to participate in the national awards reception in Washington, DC. Round-trip airfare and accommodations for two in Washington will be provided. The first place entry will represent the 36th District for one year in an exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building in Washington. The second and third place entries will be displayed for one year in Congressman Babin’s Washington and District offices, respectively. Rep. Babin with 2018 Art Competition winner Juliann Dooley (left) and mother Dana Dooley from Warren, TX. For more information or to sign up, please click here or contact Mrs. Beverly Ferguson, Regional Director of Community Relations, at 832-780-0966 or by email at tx36artcompetition@gmail.com.
01.31.2019	U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36) and Val Demings (FL-10) have introduced the Threat Assessment, Prevention, and Safety (TAPS) Act of 2019 (H.R. 838), legislation that would promote a process of determining the credibility and seriousness of a potential threat and interrupting those who are on a pathway to violence. This process, called behavioral threat assessment and management, was developed by the Secret Service after the assassination attempt on President Reagan. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Rep. Babin previously introduced this legislation in the 115th Congress. “I am honored to reintroduce the TAPS Act this Congress with Marco Rubio leading the charge in the Senate,” said Babin. “Our nation is desperately looking for solutions to stop the senseless violence that affects too many of our communities and schools. This bipartisan bill will save lives by focusing efforts on prevention rather than simply reaction, because once the first shot is fired, it is too late. The TAPS Act will provide our states and local communities with the resources, training, and support needed to stand up community-driven, multidisciplinary behavioral threat assessment units – allowing us to connect the dots and manage threats before an attack can occur.” “You should have the right to attend concerts, schools, nightclubs, and places of worship without the fear of violence,” said Demings. “Fortunately, there are promising ideas to prevent targeted attacks before they ever occur. Everyone knows the phrase ‘if you see something, say something.’ Yet state and local law enforcement agencies often lack the tools and resources to analyze and evaluate the warning signs that frequently precede mass attacks. This bill will help law enforcement agencies large and small learn from the best practices of agencies like the Secret Service and Capitol Police to identify and stop violence before the first shot is fired. By modernizing our approach, we can keep every American safer and give each of us the freedom to live our lives without fear of targeted violence.” “We must proactively engage with experts in the field of threat assessments in order to help prevent future tragedies,” Rubio said. “We have the expertise to implement systems to identify and stop dangerous individuals before they commit an act of violence, but we have yet to fully and effectively develop and utilize it to prevent future attacks. By bringing threat assessment experts together and utilizing evidence-based behavioral threat assessment and management processes, this bill will help equip our communities with the tools they need to prevent future tragedies. I want to thank Senators Sinema and Tillis for leading this effort with me in the Senate and Congressman Babin for his continued leadership in the House.” The TAPS Act will provide state and local entities the training, support, and resources to utilize this established and proven process. Law enforcement, mental health professionals, and educational entities can work together using this process to prevent and then manage potential threats. Even the Capitol Police has a behavioral threat assessment unit that has successfully mitigated thousands of threats against Members of Congress and staff for more than 30 years. Click here for a one-pager on H.R. 838. Click here to view Dr. Babin’s video from the 115th Congress on the TAPS Act. The following groups endorsed the TAPS Act in the 115th Congress: Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA) Georgia International Law Enforcement Exchange (GILEE) LiveSafe Inc. National District Attorneys Association (NDAA) North Carolina Association of Chiefs of Police North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation (NCSBI) Peace Officers Research Association of California (PORAC) San Diego County District Attorney San Diego County Officers of Education The Association of Threat Assessment Professionals (ATAP) The Association of University College Counseling Center Directors (AUCCCD) ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement on the ongoing fight to ensure federal contractors receive backpay. Earlier this month, Babin joined Rep. Bill Posey (FL-8) in a letter to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee requesting the Committee provide equitable treatment for contract employees in crafting appropriations bills to open government agencies. Unlike civil servants, government contractors have not traditionally received back-pay and benefits upon reopening the federal government. “I have voted for and the President has signed into law legislation protecting civil servants, but we must make sure the same security is provided to contractors,” said Babin. “As things stand, our contractors will not receive backpay for time missed during the shutdown. These contractors and their families are facing the same hardships as our civil servants, and we must do what we can to return them to work and treat them equitably. I will continue doing all I can for both our federal employees and contractors and working to bring all sides to the negotiating table to fully fund our government and critical border security needs.” Click here to view Dr. Babin’s letter. Dr. Babin is forgoing his salary until the shutdown ends.
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) has requested each Democratic House Committee Chairman deny any request to authorize a taxpayer-funded Congressional delegation to Palestine as proposed by Rep. Rashida Tlaib (MI-13). Per House rules, each official Congressional delegation (CODEL), as well as each Member of Congress attending, must receive approval from a Committee Chairman. The text of each letter is below. “Dear Chairman, I am writing to express my extreme concern that a newly elected Member of Congress, Rep. Rashida Tlaib, has plans to lead a taxpayer-funded Congressional delegation (CODEL) to Palestine. This action, from an outspoken supporter of the “BDS” Israeli boycott movement and whose personal vitriol led her to publicly brag about calling our President a “mother****er” to her young son, is both ill-conceived and inconsistent with our national values. Israel is of vital importance to U.S. interests in the Middle East, a fact widely acknowledged on both sides of the aisle. Since Israel’s beginnings, our nations have pursued strong relations based on common values, providing mutual security in the region and helping to spread democratic practices. The mere prospect of a CODEL like this threatens that relationship. Allowed to proceed, this action could undo years of goodwill built by the foreign policy and Israeli-American communities. To signal to our most threatened ally in the region that the United States Congress sanctions an official trip to visit Israel’s nemesis would be an exceedingly dangerous path forward. Notwithstanding the potential damage to the U.S.-Israel relationship, it seems to be a gross misappropriation of taxpayer dollars to contribute to, however indirectly, a belligerent group and its affiliates that directly oppose the interests of the United States. For the reasons above, please deny Rep. Tlaib’s request to sponsor and lead a CODEL to Palestine and exercise your authority as chair to deny your consent to any member of your committee who seeks your approval to participate in such a misadventure. Please consider the damage that a yet unexperienced and overly caustic Member of Congress may cause to Israeli relations, or the perceptions of our own Jewish-American citizens. Sincerely, Brian Babin, D.D.S., Member of Congress” Click here to view one of Dr. Babin’s letters.
01.10.2019	Rep. Andy Biggs (left), former Caucus Chair Lamar Smith, and Rep. Brian Babin WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Brian Babin (TX-36) and Andy Biggs (AZ-05) have announced that they will co-chair the Border Security Caucus for the 116th Congress. “It’s a privilege to have the opportunity to co-chair the Border Security Caucus for the 116th Congress. Promoting the safety and security of American citizens is my top priority in Congress, and we cannot sufficiently protect them with status quo border policies. Solving the humanitarian and security crisis at our border is one of the defining issues of our time, and I look forward to working with Congressman Biggs and other colleagues to meet this challenge.” – Congressman Brian Babin “I am honored to join Congressman Babin in co-chairing the Border Security Caucus for the 116th Congress. As a member of a border state, I see, first hand, the necessities for securing the border and giving our Border Patrol agents the resources they deserve. Border security is a national security issue, and it must not be delayed any longer; there are far too many miles of border lands left open. I look forward to working with Congressman Babin and other members of the caucus to accomplish this mission.” – Congressman Andy Biggs Leading immigration policy experts greeted the announcement with enthusiasm. “Congressman Biggs and Congressman Babin have both made border security and interior enforcement a top priority since they came to Washington,” said Dan Stein, President of FAIR. “Having both come from districts in the southwest— where the negative impacts of illegal immigration are often in the spotlight— it is no surprise to see them step up to lead the Congressional Border Security Caucus for the 116th Congress. FAIR encourages all members to participate in Caucus activities and looks forward to working with the Caucus to ensure that America’s borders are secure.” “I believe the more than 9 million Americans in our NumbersUSA online immigration reduction activist network will be pleased to see the Border Security Caucus leadership assumed by Rep. Brian Babin and Rep. Andy Biggs, two of the brightest stars among recent Members of Congress,” said Roy Beck, President of NumbersUSA. “Together, they have taken 85 actions on immigration that favor the economic interests of American workers, especially the most vulnerable, and the quality-of-life interests of local communities nationwide. Both have earned stellar A+ ratings. We look forward to their making the Caucus a powerful force for immigration policies in the national interest.” Members of the Caucus will meet monthly to discuss solutions to improve border security and with leading policy experts.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement regarding the announced retirement of Secretary of Defense James Mattis after four decades of public service. “The American people are losing a very smart, tough and patriotic public servant in Secretary of Defense General James “Mad Dog” Mattis. His departure will leave a big void, and we will miss his leadership, experience and knowledge. Our enemies feared and respected him and our friends appreciated him.”
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement after the passage of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (H.R. 2), commonly known as the farm bill. Dr. Babin voted for this bill which now awaits President Trump’s signature to become law. “I’m glad the House and Senate were able to come together to pass a compromise farm bill. The certainty this bill provides our farmers will enable them to plan for multiple crop cycles in the coming years. That certainty is necessary both for the livelihood of our farmers and to secure a dependable supply of food, fiber, and feed for our nation. I’m particularly pleased this bill has improvements which will benefit Texas rice and soybean farmers and timber growers. “While I’m pleased with the commodity, crop insurance, and conservation titles in the farm bill, which will be welcomed by farmers in Southeast Texas, Congress must show a renewed commitment towards ensuring that taxpayer dollars go to those who truly need them and our country’s safety net is not abused at the expense of our agricultural programs. I’m disappointed that Congress missed the best opportunity in decades to make significant reforms to a bill that allocates more than 80 percent of its funding to food stamps. Without the commonsense reforms included in the original version of the House-passed farm bill, funds that could go towards securing our agricultural safety net will continue to go to the SNAP program, which has ballooned in recent years even as our economy has markedly improved. Fortunately, the Administration and USDA will have authority to enact some limited safeguards to strengthen the integrity of our SNAP program.”
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Co-Chairman of the House Border Security Caucus for the 116th Congress, issued the following statement after introducing a resolution calling on the President to resume the interpretation of section 1 of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution as originally intended and applied as law for a century. “For a century after its enactment, Section 1 of the 14th Amendment was properly applied as written and intended to ensure all American citizens were afforded the sacred constitutional protections they deserve. While these important protections remain, in recent decades the misapplication of specific language in the amendment has led to implementation of the practice of birthright citizenship by which children born to foreign nationals – even those here illegally – are automatically granted United States citizenship. Birthright citizenship has long served as a powerful incentive for illegal immigration, and over time has become wrongly accepted as law or protected by our constitution. However, as birthright citizenship is justified due to a faulty legal application and has never been protected by the Supreme Court, ending the practice should not require a constitutional amendment. “President Trump has boldly committed to examine this issue closely, and I urge my colleagues in the House of Representatives to support my resolution recognizing the imprudence of birthright citizenship and seeking an end to this misguided policy that has fueled illegal immigration and weakened our national sovereignty.” The resolution, H. Res. 1143, has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee.` Click here to view the resolution.
10.18.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) and the Honorable Judge Jimmy Sylvia, Chambers County Judge, released the following joint statement announcing millions of dollars of Hurricane Ike cleanup debt erroneously charged to Chambers County will be de-obligated. An amendment introduced and passed by Babin to this year’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill, now signed into law by President Trump, holds FEMA responsible for assurances offered and later rescinded to county governments after expenditures had taken place. The debt Chambers County acquired during Ike cleanup efforts based on faulty information by FEMA falls under the definition stipulated by the Babin amendment, and therefore essentially will be canceled out. “This is a great day for residents of Chambers County,” said Rep. Babin. “The process initiated by today’s letter is the culmination of years of hard work that will ensure FEMA takes responsibility for their assurances made to county officials in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Ike and the federally-declared disaster left in its wake. With this debt de-obligated, Chambers County can once again operate in service of its citizens without the fear of imminent financial calamity. Thank you to my colleagues Senators Cruz and Cornyn, Judge Sylvia, and so many others whose efforts have ensured the county can put this behind them and continue focusing on prosperity for the county.” “I'm extremely happy to announce that the $9 million in de-obligated FEMA funds looming over Chambers County since Hurricane Ike have been eliminated,” said Judge Sylvia. “Thanks to the diligence of Congressman Babin and assistance from Senators Cornyn and Cruz, H.R. 302 (specifically section 1237 pertaining to de-obligated funds by FEMA) was signed by President Trump on October 5, 2018. This culminates many years of work by county leaders and staff to resolve this financial burden. I would like to thank our Congressional Delegation, Ernie Abbott with Baker Donelson, Nathan Brandimarte with Orgain Bell and Tucker, and all County employees involved.” Representative Brian Babin, left, and Judge Jimmy Sylvia Click here to view a video of Babin introducing, and passing, his amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Click here for the Texas Department of Public Safety letter to FEMA officially requesting restoration of previously de-obligated funds to Chambers County. ###
10.16.2018	DEER PARK, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement supporting President Trump’s comments threatening to halt foreign aid to nations assisting Central American migrant caravans to illegally cross our Southern border. “President Trump is absolutely correct to call for Central American governments to cooperate in halting migrant caravans or else risk losing their generous financial aid from the United States. These nations must secure their own borders and stop allowing – and even encouraging – their citizens to illegally cross our sovereign borders. I applaud President Trump for his boldness in acting to protect the interests of American citizens by using our extensive leverage on the international stage. “We must not tolerate the abuse of our nation’s laws and asylum system by individuals or foreign governments. Offering a lenience to foreign nationals which we would never extend to our own citizens is an unfair and unsustainable policy that would encourage further illegality and contradict our heritage of law and order. We must keep the interests of the American people first, and all attempts to further erode the system of constitutionality already under attack in our Republic must be fought and defeated.” ###
10.15.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Chairman of the House Space Subcommittee, released the following statement in the aftermath of last week’s failed launch of a Russian Soyuz rocket. “While I am thankful no one was hurt by last week’s failed Soyuz launch to the International Space Station, this near-disaster underscores the critical need for the United States to end our dependence on a single foreign rocket for our transportation to space. With the Russian Soyuz spacecraft grounded indefinitely and no other options available, American astronauts now have no way to get to the ISS. It is imperative we prioritize the capability of launching American astronauts on American rockets from American soil. Schedule slips and delays from our commercial crew program partners must stop. As Chairman of the House Space Subcommittee, I will continue working with NASA to investigate last week’s failure, and I am committed to finding a way to end this dependence on Russia.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court. "With Brett Kavanaugh's confirmation secured, this embarrassing chapter in the history of the Senate can finally conclude. The shameful political theater Americans witnessed in disgust was never about determining the truth but designed to block this nomination by any means necessary – no matter how salacious or unprecedented. The longstanding process for vetting a nominee openly and in good faith was so flagrantly violated that the public's faith in our government institutions may be forever damaged. "I applaud my Texas colleagues Senators Ted Cruz and John Cornyn for their leadership in fairly evaluating and ultimately voting in favor of this supremely qualified nominee. Unfortunately, this process previewed the new playbook of win-at-all-costs tactics by radical elements whose desire for absolute political power over their countrymen would lead them to willfully destroy the foundational principles so many Americans cherish. The events of recent weeks make clear that the stakes remain high in the ongoing fight to preserve our liberties. "I wish Justice Kavanaugh a long career on the Supreme Court. I have complete confidence he will conduct himself with the integrity, sense of fairness, and respect for our Republic's sacred heritage of law and order that was so glaringly and unconscionably abandoned during his confirmation process.” ###
10.01.2018	DEER PARK, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement after the United States, Mexico and Canada agreed to a new trilateral trade deal to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) is expected to receive an up-or-down vote in Congress next year. “I applaud President Trump for delivering on his campaign promise to strike a new deal with Mexico and Canada – a feat many claimed impossible. The 36th Congressional District is a hub of international trade and is the second largest exporter in the State of Texas. Though I have long had concerns with certain provisions of NAFTA, with trade such a vital part of our economy, it is imperative any trade deal does not significantly disrupt existing economic sectors and fulfills the President’s promise to reform the deal in the best interests of working Americans. “Congress now must review and vote on USMCA, and I pledge to carefully evaluate this deal before the vote to ensure it is good for Texas and America. I also want to seize this opportunity to resolve the Loadmaster issue and ensure a fair resolution by PEMEX and the Mexican government. President Trump’s policies have spurred our economy to its best performance in decades, but we are not finished yet. I look forward to continue working with the President for the benefit of the people of Texas.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36), a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, and Ralph Abraham (LA-5) today announced the creation of the bipartisan Congressional I-14 Caucus. The caucus will advance the goals of Rep. Babin’s H.R. 6111, the I-14 Expansion & Improvement Act of 2018, by providing an official platform for Members of Congress to communicate and collaborate with local officials and stakeholders on the development, financing and construction of the new interstate highway in the Southeast U.S. The bill promoted by the caucus, Rep. Babin’s H.R. 6111, authorizes an expanded interstate route across Texas, Mississippi and Louisiana, using the general pattern of existing roads and highways but, importantly, leaves the final route determination to state and local officials. The bill builds upon the designation secured by Rep. Babin in the 2015 FAST Act highway bill, the original authorizing legislation for I-14, establishing the Central Texas Corridor as the future I-14, and does not eliminate any currently authorized routes. The route could eventually extend across Alabama to Georgia. "Our interstate highway system truly connects our nation from coast to coast and represents American ingenuity at its best, but as populations shift and new economic and military centers emerge, the need to strengthen those connections requires action,” said Rep. Babin. “The economic boost from this interstate highway will extend far beyond the designated route to strengthen communities throughout the surrounding regions, and I am pleased that my colleagues have committed to work together to see this highway constructed and its many benefits realized. I-14 will provide significant advancements to better integrate ports and military installations with our existing infrastructure network and is already known as the ‘Forts to Ports’ highway. I am particularly pleased the bill includes a nonstop interstate connection from Goodfellow Air Force Base in West Texas to the strategic seaport in Beaumont, Texas. “To spur economic growth, President Trump has called for Congressional action to make robust improvements to our nation's transportation infrastructure, and this caucus will work to ensure I-14 receives full consideration as new highway bill legislation is written in the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. Through combining our efforts, our caucus will work with officials and stakeholders both in Washington and the impacted states and communities to achieve our shared purpose of better connecting areas which have seen economic and population growth as well as making available new economic opportunities to rural areas underserved by current transportation routes.” H.R. 6111 has been referred to the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, where efforts to write a new comprehensive national infrastructure bill are underway. Joining Reps. Babin and Abraham as charter members of the Congressional I-14 Caucus are Reps. Drew Ferguson (GA-03), Roger Williams (TX-25), Mike Conaway (TX-11), Bill Flores (TX-17), Mike Johnson (LA-04), Gene Green (TX-29) and John Carter (TX-31). Click here to view the bill text. Click here to view a map of the current and proposed I-14 routes. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Chairman of the House Space Subcommittee, has introduced H.R. 6910, the Leading Human Spaceflight Act. Babin unveiled the bill during a subcommittee hearing Wednesday titled 60 Years of NASA Leadership in Human Space Exploration: Past, Present, and Future. “The Leading Human Spaceflight Act reaffirms Johnson Space Center’s leadership role as the home of American human spaceflight,” said Babin. “This legislation also recognizes that based on their historical role and extensive expertise and capabilities, Johnson Space Center is the logical center to serve a lead role in program management, systems engineering, program integration, and operations for NASA’s human space exploration program—particularly those outlined in the Human Space Exploration Campaign. “My bill promotes policy that will lead to a permanent and continuous U.S. human presence in LEO and authorizes NASA to operate the ISS until 2030, or until we have demonstrated a sustainable lower cost alternative. At the same time, NASA is directed to start work with the private sector in developing the commercial capabilities to meet America’s future needs in low-Earth orbit.” Babin’s full remarks may be seen here. A video of his opening statement may be viewed here. ###
09.06.2018	Today, Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement after joining with other House Republicans to call for the declassification of the Carter Page FISA application: “After more than a year of investigation, the Mueller probe has yielded zero evidence of collusion. However, there is hard and tangible evidence of misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI, and it is past time that we shed light on why nothing is being done about it. I have repeatedly said that a second Special Counsel needs to be appointed to bring justice and accountability to the individuals who exploited their positions to sweep real crimes under the rug and interfere with the outcome of the 2016 election – just because they hate Donald Trump. Declassifying the Carter Page FISA application would be an important step in getting the American People the answers they deserve.”
08.17.2018	Congressman Brian Babin’s (TX-36) Threat Assessment, Prevention, and Safety (TAPS) Act (H.R. 6664) received the endorsement of the Association of Threat Assessment Professionals (ATAP) at the organization’s annual Threat Management Conference earlier this week. ATAP is a non-profit organization comprised of experts from law enforcement, legal, mental health, corporate, education, and other sectors committed to eliminating targeted violence through threat and violence risk assessment. The TAPS Act creates a task force of subject matter experts who will assist in creating a national strategy to prevent targeted violence through threat assessment and management. The national strategy will provide resources, training, and assistance in establishing and operating locally-driven, multidisciplinary threat assessment and management units as well as a specialized school threat assessment program. “ATAP is made up of dedicated professionals who already serve on the front lines of protecting our communities, schools, and public figures by using this successful method. I am honored to have their support as we move forward to reshape the way we assess and mitigate threats and save lives,” said Rep. Babin. “Americans are tired of political rhetoric and want a solution to these devastating incidents of targeted violence happening across our country. I believe we’ve found the answer with the TAPS Act.” “ATAP is proud to put its support behind the TAPS Act. Congressman Babin has taken a leadership role in crafting this legislation to stop incidents of targeted violence, and we are thrilled that he is advocating for this effective method on the national level. On behalf of ATAP, we thank Congressman Babin and are proud to work with him to protect our communities and save lives,” said ATAP President, Dr. Russell Palarea. For more information on the TAPS Act, watch Babin’s video summary of the bill. The original press release introducing H.R. 6664 is available here. To view the full text of the bill, click here.
08.10.2018	Today, Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) introduced the Threat Assessment, Prevention, and Safety (TAPS) Act (H.R. 6664). The TAPS Act goes beyond political rhetoric to provide a national strategy to keep communities safe from targeted violence. “Whether it’s a shooting, stabbing, bombing, or other example of predatory violence, mass causality events are occurring too often. These horrific tragedies are impacting our nation indiscriminately. Americans want solutions, and I believe we found one,” said Babin. “Threat assessment and management is the process of identifying, investigating, assessing, and mitigating threats, and has been used successfully to protect our president and other prominent figures for decades. Unfortunately, it’s not well known or utilized on a state and local level. The TAPS Act aims to bridge the gap and train local law enforcement, and others, on how to use this process. This is about connecting the dots before an attack occurs, because once the first shot is fired, it’s too late – we have failed.” The TAPS Act creates a task force of experts in this field who will assist in the creation of a national strategy to prevent targeted violence through threat assessment and management. This will provide resources, training, and assistance in establishing and operating locally driven threat assessment and management units. Preventing these tragic events is a matter of national security, and with the TAPS Act, federal, state, and local law enforcement will be able to act quickly and work together to help save lives. To view the full bill language click here
07.26.2018	U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) applauded today’s passage of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report in the House: “With countless threats around the world, it is crucial for Congress to provide the funds necessary to ensure that our military is able and ready to face whatever comes its way. While there is still work to be done, the 2019 NDAA is a step in the right direction. It contains $708.1 billion to support military readiness and combat global terrorism, and it gives our troops with their largest pay raise in nine years. By funding these priorities, we are providing our brave service men and women with the resources and support they need to carry out their mission. I look forward to President Trump signing this important bill into law."
07.25.2018	U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement after the House passed the National Flood Insurance Program Extension Act of 2018 (S.1182), legislation that will keep the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) authorized through the upcoming hurricane season. “I represent working coastal communities that were hit very hard by Hurricane Harvey – communities that are vital to our nation’s energy security. Coastal energy and petrochemical refining facilities like those I represent in TX-36 cannot function without a steady and reliable workforce, and that workforce cannot exist without a stable housing market. I am grateful that my House colleagues saw the need to reauthorize this vital program, and I look forward to continuing our effort to reform the NFIP before it expires toward the end of the year.” Babin spoke on the House floor in support of this legislation yesterday. Watch the full speech here.
07.18.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) released the following statement after the House passed H. Res. 990, a resolution co-sponsored by Rep. Babin that supports the officers and personnel of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “Today the House passed H. Res. 990 to express our support for the critical work of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and denounce the efforts by radical left wing politicians and activists to abolish it. The brave men and women of ICE put their lives on the line every day to protect Americans from dangerous terrorists, gang members, sex traffickers and drug kingpins who shouldn’t be in our country in the first place. I was proud to co-sponsor this resolution, and I stand committed to making sure that those who protect our borders receive the support that they deserve.
07.10.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement today in support of President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be the next Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court: “Judge Brett Kavanaugh is an outstanding choice to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy on the U.S. Supreme Court. He has exceptional legal knowledge and qualifications, and brings to this nomination a distinguished career of upholding the Constitution and rule of law. Now more than ever, it is important to appoint justices who will defend our rights to free speech and religious liberty, and I am confident that Judge Kavanaugh will do just that on the Supreme Court. “Judicial appointments serve as one of the most important duties and enduring legacies for a president. We are fortunate once again that the American people put President Trump in office for this historic opportunity to appoint highly qualified, conservative judges to both our lower courts and twice now to the Supreme Court. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly and confirm this highly qualified nominee.”
06.28.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin today voted to continue the restoration of American military strength with the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 6157). H.R. 6157 nearly matches President Trump’s request for the Department of Defense base discretionary defense spending, providing our Armed Forces with a total of $674.6 billion in funding, “H.R. 6157 provides the necessary funds to our military to make sure that our country is ready to face whatever threats may come our way,” says Rep. Babin. “With countless threats around the world, it is critical that Congress provide robust funding for our troops to keep the American people and our Armed Services safe. This bill does just that by providing the funds necessary to train and equip our troops.” This bill provides $606 billion for base operations funding and $68 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism. This is $17.7 billion above 2018 funding level. A one-pager of the bill can be found here. The full text of the bill can be found here.
06.26.2018	Rep. Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement reacting to today’s Supreme Court decision upholding President Trump’s travel ban Executive Order: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling on Trump v. Hawaii upholds what I have said all along – that President Trump is absolutely within his constitutional authority to restrict travel from hotbeds of terror. As elected officials, our sworn duty is to the safety and security of the American people. To put politics above one's duty is a dereliction of this oath of office, particularly when the lives of U.S. citizens are at stake. I applaud the Supreme Court for upholding the executive branch’s responsibility to secure our borders, and for allowing President Trump to keep Americans safe.” Rep. Babin was one of the first to draw attention to this issue by introducing the Refugee Resettlement National Security Act (H.R. 3314) in 2015.
06.19.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement regarding the border situation: “What is happening at the border is unfortunate and a direct consequence of not implementing and enforcing our immigration laws. For this reason, I support the Administration’s zero tolerance policy and advocate for continuing it. Until our borders are secure, we cannot keep heading down a path that allows hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens, including criminals and terrorists, to continue crossing our borders and vanish into the interior of the U.S. We are a compassionate nation, but we are also a nation of laws. We cannot continue to allow and encourage illegal immigration that eliminates jobs for American citizens and increases the risk of terrorists and MS-13 entering the country. No one should be treated inhumanely, and the facilities in question are providing these children with a safe environment and the necessities for a temporary stay as officials work to resolve their individual situations as quickly as possible. This concept is no different than the steps our government takes when an American citizen is arrested or incarcerated, and their children are left without a parent or guardian. We must also remember that many of these procedures are in place for the safety and protection of children. We already know that human trafficking and child labor is a problem in the U.S. and the last thing we want to see is more children in danger because the U.S. Border Patrol neglected to do its due diligence. I am in support of changes to the law that would expedite the immigration review process and allow families to remain together in the same facility as they await the outcome of their case, but it needs to be part of a larger solution to fix our broken immigration system. Democrats are choosing to attack the President for enforcing our immigration laws, but the sooner they end their political stunts and work with us on a comprehensive immigration and border security bill, the sooner this can end. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to finally pass a bill to secure our borders and fix the immigration system that has been failing our country for decades.”
06.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, today introduced the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act of 2018, legislation to extend the future I-14 interstate highway to additional areas in Texas and across the southern United States. The legislation also further connects key military installations in these states to strategic seaports, enhancing their readiness and efficiency as envisioned by President Dwight D. Eisenhower when he first commissioned America’s interstate highway system in 1956. This legislation builds upon the original designation, written by Rep. Babin as part of the 2015 FAST Act highway bill, of the Central Texas Corridor as the future I-14, and does not eliminate any currently authorized routes. It also authorizes the new interstate route using the general pattern of existing roads and highways, but leaves the final determination about the exact path of the route with state and local officials who know their communities best. “One of President Dwight Eisenhower’s top priorities and greatest accomplishments was the construction of an interstate highway system that connects America’s military assets, businesses, and communities from coast to coast. The legislation we introduced today is a complement to that legacy.” said Rep. Babin. “I-14 is already known as the ‘Forts to Ports’ highway, and we are building on that success with further improvements, including a nonstop interstate connection from Goodfellow Air Force base in West Texas to the strategic seaport in Beaumont. And of course, it will finally give countless communities access to the benefits of an interstate highway, with a design and implementation process run by state and local transportation authorities, not Washington bureaucrats.” The legislation has been referred to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, where Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) has recently announced plans for legislation to carry out President Trump’s call to action on a comprehensive national infrastructure bill. Joining Rep. Babin as original cosponsors of the bill were Reps. Mike Conaway (TX-11), John Carter (TX-31), Roger Williams (TX-25), Kevin Brady (TX-8), Mike Johnson (LA-4), Ralph Abraham (LA-5), and Gregg Harper (MS-3). Click here to view the bill text. Click here to view a map of the current and proposed I-14 routes.
06.05.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) and his staff visited all nine counties – Orange, Chambers, Harris, Liberty, Polk, Hardin, Newton, Jasper and Tyler – in the 36th District last week. “I decided to bring my entire staff together to travel throughout the nine counties that make up District 36. My Washington D.C. staff, District staff, wife, and I traveled together to different communities to meet with the people we serve,” said Babin. “We wanted to make our presence known, our faces familiar, and convey that we are always accessible to the folks of TX-36.” Congressman Babin and his team started at NASA Johnson Space Center in Houston before traveling to view dredging operations in the Houston ship channel near Bayport and Barbours Cut. Nehemiah’s Vision, located in Vidor, TX, was able to show Rep. Babin and his staff their ministry’s efforts in rebuilding homes that were destroyed by Hurricane Harvey. Other stops included the Alabama-Coushatta Indian Reservation’s 50th Annual Powwow and the Cypress Creek Ranch in Warren, TX. For additional details, information, or pictures from any of the nine stops throughout the trip, please email Emily VanderBush (emily.vanderbush@mail.house.gov) or Sarah Reese (sarah.reese@mail.house.gov).
05.23.2018	The U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee advanced key priorities offered by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) during today’s consideration and passage of H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (WRDA). WRDA 2018 provides improvements to the Nation’s ports, inland waterways, locks, dams, flood protection, ecosystem restoration, and other water resources infrastructure. Also included in this bill is authorization for billions in funding for the Sabine-to-Galveston Coastal Storm Risk Management and Ecosystem Restoration project, a critical first step in the process to construct the Coastal Spine and finally make the Texas coast as safe as possible from another hurricane. Additionally, it offers key reforms to the “408” permitting process, streamlining the procedures while maintaining certain environmental and safety guidelines where necessary. Two bipartisan amendments co-authored by Babin were also incorporated during today’s committee consideration of the bill, authorizing two critical studies. The first directs the Army Corps to study and provide recommendations on practices to ensure that anti-corrosion measures are incorporated into construction projects to extend their lifespan, improve safety and save taxpayer money. The second provides for an evaluation of whether the current command structure and practices of the senior leadership of Army Corps district offices - typically a three-year command by an Army colonel - is detrimental to the overall operations, or if a longer tenure would provide for better continuity. “Today’s passage of the WRDA is good news for our coastal communities,” says Rep. Babin. “It takes important steps to keep our coastal communities safe, and reduces bureaucracy to strengthen our nation’s ports and the infrastructure of our waterways. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this bill on the House floor.” The bill is expected to move to the floor of the House of Representatives next month, where additional amendments and improvements will be considered, and then on to the Senate and the desk of President Donald J. Trump. More information about WRDA and the amendments are available here.
05.14.2018	U.S Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement congratulating Mark Geyer on his appointment as Director for the Johnson Space Center: “I want to congratulate Mark on his selection to lead JSC. He has a strong engineering background and has spent his career working in the space program in key leadership roles including JSC Deputy Center Director and Orion Program Manager. JSC has served a critical role in program management, systems engineering and integration and as the operations Center of our nation’s human spaceflight program since the mid-60s and the early Gemini Program. I look forward to working with Mark and the management team at JSC, serving this same critical function as our nation returns to the Moon and endeavors to send humans to Mars.”
05.09.2018	Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement in support of Gina Haspel, President Donald Trump’s nominee to lead the Central Intelligence Agency: “The nomination of Gina Haspel as the first woman to lead the CIA should be a historic moment. Instead, Senate Democrats have chosen to obstruct and engage in shameful character attacks to prevent her confirmation from taking place. Ms. Haspel has proven herself to be a dedicated public servant, a true patriot and a respected leader within the CIA. Throughout her career, she has risen through the ranks with the best interests of the country and our national security at heart. Former CIA Directors from both sides of the political aisle have expressed their support for her nomination as they have witnessed her dedication and integrity first-hand. Ms. Haspel is the leader the CIA needs to keep America safe. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to end their partisan obstruction and confirm her immediately.”
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (R-TX) released the following statement after President Trump’s announcement to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “President Trump made the right decision today by withdrawing from the flawed Iran Nuclear Deal. I have long said that if we allowed this agreement to continue, it would be the worst national security mistake in our lifetime. The Obama Administration made a grave misstep when they finalized this deal and awarded Iran with billions of dollars to use for terrorism purposes, fully aware of its shortcomings and at the peril of U.S. interests abroad. President Trump has taken the necessary step to rectify this mistake, and put us on a path to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear-armed power. While the current Administration tried to fix the agreement within its flawed structure, it’s clear that Tehran won’t cooperate and must experience the full burden of sanctions. I urge our European allies to follow suit and reinstate their own sanctions as well.”
05.03.2018	U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) marked today’s annual National Day of Prayer with the following prayer and reflection: “Father, as we observe the National Day of Prayer we pray for unity and healing throughout our Nation. Lord, we pray for unity as Americans regardless of our differing ideas, backgrounds, or party affiliation. At such a critical time in our nation’s history, we can do nothing more important than pray. Founding father, Patrick Henry’s, words from March 1799 still hold true today, "Let us trust God, and our better judgment to set us right hereafter. United we stand, divided we fall. Let us not split into factions which must destroy that union upon which our existence hangs." It is my prayer that we return to you Father and our country will begin to resemble the United States, rather than the divided states of America. Last year Hurricane Harvey hit our shores and the suffering came to all – regardless of color, creed, economic status or age. But we also saw the beauty of what makes America great in what followed as tens of thousands of individuals from across the country united to help Southeast Texas recover from Hurricane Harvey, a storm of biblical proportion. Those folks lived out the Great Commandment, “love thy neighbor as thyself,” when they rescued, clothed, housed, and fed total strangers – fellow Americans who they saw in need. And, many of them continue to live this out each day as our recovery is far from over. Lord, we are deeply thankful for the thousands of volunteers who have pitched in to help their neighbors in need. There is beauty in that. Today we pray that you would give wisdom to our leaders – President Trump, Vice-President Pence, our Congressional leaders, our Governor, and state and local elected officials. Father, may they seek true wisdom that comes from you. We pray that, as a nation, we would return to you and give you the honor you are due. Help me to humbly serve you with integrity in the United States Congress. Father, we pray for your blessing for the people of the 36th Congressional District, State of Texas, and the United States of America. We ask all of this in the name of your Son, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.”
04.27.2018	On Saturday, April 21, Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) announced the winners and honored participants of the 36th District’s 2018 Congressional Art Competition. This year’s competition included over 50 entries from high school students across the district under the theme, “Hurricane Harvey Through Your Eyes.” First place was awarded to Juliann Dooley of Warren High School for her drawing, “Humanity,” which will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. Dooly will also attend the 2018 Congressional Art Competition ceremony in Washington, D.C. in June. Second place was awarded to Fredy Rubio from Crosby High School for his artwork, “Angry Storm,” and third place to Rachael Matthews of Deer Park High School for her artwork titled, “Fortunate.” Both second and third place art will be displayed in Congressman Babin’s office in Washington, D.C. “I was very impressed by the talented artwork created by high school students across the 36th District of Texas,” said Rep. Babin. “We had over 50 submissions for this year’s theme of ‘Hurricane Harvey Through Your Eyes’ and couldn’t have asked for better works of art. Congratulations to this year’s first place winner, Juliann Dooley of Warren, whose drawing will be proudly displayed in the U.S Capitol. Thank you to everyone who participated in this year’s competition.” Below is full list of award recipients at the 36th District 2018 Congressional Art Competition: First Place: Juliann Dooley | Warren High School | “Humanity” Second Place: Fredy Rubio | Crosby High School | “Angry Storm” Third Place: Rachael Matthews | Deer Park High School | “Fortunate” Honorable Mentions: Samantha Jackman | Deer Park High School | “Floating Effervescently” Paris Williams | Dayton High School | “Eye of the Hurricane” Marilyn Calte | Dayton High School | “A View from Below” Israel Robles | Ross S. Sterling High School | “Aftermath” Angelica Pineda | Crosby High School | “Wings of Safety” Joslyn Alyssa Valdez | Crosby High School | “The Eye of Destruction” Nathan Faircloth | Woodville High School | “A Break in the Storm” Jordan Foxworth | Woodville High School | “Seneca Road Closed” Rebecca Vargas | Deer Park High School| “Stranded by Harvey” Gabriel Cruz | C.E. King High School | “Together through Harvey”
04.20.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) today issued a statement encouraging residents of the 36th District to participate in the Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA) National Drug Take Back Day on Saturday, April 28: “April 28 is the day Americans across the nation will dispose of their old prescription drugs at hundreds of locations across the country. I encourage folks in the 36th District of Texas to take part in this National Drug Take Back Day,” says Babin. “The opioid crisis is a public health issue that we can all have a role in addressing. Too many prescription drugs find their way into the wrong hands because they are sitting unused or expired in homes across the country. Look in your home medicine cabinets, then drop off your old prescriptions next Saturday. It can save lives.” This day provides a safe, convenient and responsible means of disposing of prescription drugs, while also educating the public about the potential for abuse of medications. Addressing the opioid crisis has become a national priority for the Administration, so this is a timely and practical way for local communities to be involved in these efforts. Residents can participate on April 28 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. at drop-off locations located all around the 36th District. To find a collection location near you visit the DEA’s collection site search. For more information on National Drug Take Back Day, visit https://takebackday.dea.gov/
04.19.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) today issued a statement applauding the Senate’s confirmation of Rep. Jim Bridenstine as the new NASA Administrator: “I am glad the Senate has finally done its job and confirmed Jim Bridenstine as the new NASA Administrator. With many milestones fast approaching, NASA now has a leader in place to ensure America remains first in space exploration. Jim understands the needs of our space program and shares in the vision that will propel America back to the Moon, onward to Mars, and beyond. I have full confidence in his abilities to perform the job well, and look forward to working with him in my role as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space. Congratulations, Jim!” Babin led a letter last month signed by 65 Members Members of Congress urging the Senate to approve Bridenstine’s nomination.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, chaired by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), approved the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5503) by a bipartisan vote of 26-7. The bill was introduced by Rep. Brian Babin (R-Texas), chairman of the Space Subcommittee, and cosponsored by Chairman Smith along with 17 committee members. Chairman Smith: “The NASA Authorization Act of 2018 is a crucial step in restoring the greatness of American space exploration. With this bill, we ensure that NASA will focus on its priority missions, effectively leverage private sector partnerships and entrepreneurship, and continue space research that will launch America toward new scientific discoveries and worlds. Chairman Babin’s bill redoubles our commitment to U.S. leadership in space for decades to come. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for making this a bipartisan effort with a majority of the Democrats, including the Ranking Members of both the Full Committee and Space Subcommittee, voting in favor of the bill.” Chairman Babin: “H.R. 5503 is forward-looking for NASA and our nation’s space program, providing robust funding to the Space Launch System, Orion, and the International Space Station. This bipartisan bill ensures that America will continue to lead the world in human space flight, exploration, aeronautics and scientific research. The bill’s passage out of committee is an important step forward for American economic competitiveness.” The bill is cosponsored by Chairman Smith, Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), Rep. Steve Knight (R-Calif.) Rep. Clay Higgins (R-La.), Rep. Ralph Norman (R-S.C.), Rep. Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Rep. Bill Posey (R-Fla.), Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-La.), Rep. Jim Banks (R-Ind.), Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.), Rep. Neal Dunn (R-Fla.), Rep. Randy Weber (R-Texas), Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), Rep. Roger Marshall (R-Kan.), Rep. Daniel Webster (R-Fla.) and Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.) Background The National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2018, as amended: Authorizes $20.74 billion for NASA for fiscal year 2018, the level enacted in the recent Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, and $21.21 billion for NASA for fiscal year 2019 Supports President Trump’s vision of American space leadership by funding the Space Launch System and the Orion spacecraft Supports NASA using American private sector innovation and investments to unlock the economic potential of outer space Funds NASA’s Planetary Science Division at $2.64 billion in fiscal year 2019, a $401 million increase from current funding levels, making possible all NASA-planned planetary missions, as well as: A Mars sample return mission A space-based infrared camera to support Near-Earth Objects survey Additional support for the Europa mission Funds NASA’s Earth Science Division at $1.92 billion in fiscal year 2019, freezing the current funding level, and requires NASA be reimbursed for work undertaken for the benefit of another agency Supports initial implementation of NASA’s International Space Station Transition Report to foster the development of private sector capability with the goal of ending direct federal support by 2025 Enforces the Wide-Field Infrared Space Telescope (WFIRST) cost cap and requires an operational James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) prior to WFIRST launch procurement; sets aside $180 million in the NASA Astrophysics Division to address any justified recommendations of the JWST and WFIRST cost and schedule reviews currently underway Includes a 21st Century Aeronautics Research Capabilities Initiative that enhances NASA’s infrastructure and computational capabilities to conduct cutting-edge flight demonstrations The text of the bill can found here. ###
04.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin issued the following statement regarding yesterday’s unjust decision by a Turkish court to keep Andrew Brunson, an American Christian pastor falsely accused of treason, in custody in Turkey: “Pastor Brunson’s arrest and ongoing incarceration is a disgrace and a miscarriage of justice. It is shameful to accuse a Christian pastor who has preached for more than 25 years in Turkey of treason. Such actions show just how far Turkey, one of our own NATO allies, has fallen under the rule of dictator Recep Erdoğan. This man has stripped millions of people of their most basic rights, including freedom of religion, and he should pay a heavy price for this outrage. We witnessed his extreme actions first hand on our own soil last year when he sent his guards to attack peaceful protesters and American law enforcement officers outside of the Turkish Embassy in Washington, D.C. I am calling for Turkey to immediately release Brunson. I also think that it may be time to re-evaluate our formerly good relationship with this repressive regime.”
04.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement in support of President Trump’s targeted military strikes, alongside the U.K. and France, against Syrian targets after a chemical weapon attack by the Assad regime against its civilians: “I commend the President for his leadership, as well as our allies in France and the U.K., for taking this action after Syrian Dictator Bashar al-Assad once again used chemical weapons against his own innocent civilians. This use of chemical weapons violates nearly 100 years of precedent and agreement among the civilized nations of the world. Allowing their use to go unanswered even in an internal conflict would set an unacceptable precedent and ultimately put American citizens and soldiers abroad at heightened risk of being exposed to them. The purpose of these strikes is to debilitate the Syrian regime’s capacity to produce and use these weapons, which pose an immediate, clear and present danger. Congress and the President should have to agree on any course of action that escalates our involvement further than that.”
04.11.2018	Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) released the following statement: “I would like to thank Paul Ryan for his service to the House and America. Our country is a better place because of his leadership in turning our historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act into law. He was also ahead of his time in forecasting the looming debt crisis we now face as a nation and providing bold solutions to address it - critical work that we in Congress must do and that I am confident he will assist us with as a private citizen. I also want to thank him for his many trips to Texas and his hands-on leadership to help our communities get the resources we needed to recover from the devastation of Hurricane Harvey. Finally, on a more personal note, as a fellow outdoors-man and family man, we share a commitment to putting our families first and a love for the outdoors as avid bow hunters. In the coming months, we will have discussions and make decisions about the future of our leadership in the House. But right now, our focus must remain squarely on keeping the House in Republican hands and the Speaker’s gavel away from Nancy Pelosi. Those who step up and lead us to accomplish that goal will earn the right to lead the House as Speaker.”
04.09.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement regarding the rallies being held this week by America’s truck drivers over burdensome regulations: “This week, hardworking American truck drivers will be rallying in Washington DC and across the country for relief from burdensome federal regulations such as the Electronic Logging Device (ELD) mandate and inflexible, one-size-fits-all Hours of Service (HOS) rules. I welcome them to our Nation’s Capitol and look forward to them making their voices heard to Members of Congress and Administration officials in the same positive, constructive and civil manner as they did last October. I can report that both the Administration and the leadership in Congress are now engaged in serious, good-faith negotiations on regulatory and legislative reforms to address the deep flaws in the current HOS rules – including my recently introduced REST Act (H.R. 5417). However, as these discussions continue, I would again strongly urge FMCSA Administrator Ray Martinez to implement a waiver of at least 90 days for all sectors of the trucking industry from the ELD mandate as we advance these and other critical reforms. Similar waivers have already been granted to select industries, but I believe that all American truckers deserve the same relief as we work towards a solution.”
03.23.2018	U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, introduced H.R. 5417 The Responsible and Effective Standards for Truckers (REST) Act, legislation that would modernize hours of service regulations for truck drivers. The REST Act would allow drivers to take one rest break per shift, for up to three consecutive hours. The single off-duty period would not be counted toward the driver’s 14-hour, on-duty allowance and would not extent the total, allowable drive limits. “I’m proud to introduce the REST Act today and give America’s truckers the options they need to safely operate under today’s rigid federal regulations,” said Rep. Babin. “This bill is an important step in making the way for improved highway safety.” The REST Act requires the Department of Transportation to update Hours of Service regulations to allow a rest break once per 14-hour duty period for up to 3 consecutive hours as long as the driver is off-duty, effectively pausing the 14-hour clock. However, drivers would still need to log ten consecutive hours off duty before the start of their next work shift. It would also eliminate the existing 30-minute rest break requirement. “We thank Rep. Babin for recognizing the need to address the lack of options for truckers trying to safely operate under today’s overly rigid federal regulations,” said Todd Spencer, acting president and CEO of OOIDA. “We want to see improvements to highway safety and what we have right now isn’t going to get that done.”
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) released the following statement today after voting NO on the FY18 Omnibus spending bill: “Without question, the two greatest accomplishments of the United States Senate since President Trump took office have been confirming Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court and passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. What did these two accomplishments have in common? They both were achieved by sidestepping the Senate “filibuster” and allowing the majority to rule. However, because the Senate refuses to change its rules for equally important legislation, like bills that fund the federal government or deal with national security, monstrosities like this Omnibus spending bill are what we end up getting. “The American people did not elect Donald J. Trump as President just to see his agenda thwarted by Chuck Schumer and at least eight of his Democrat colleagues, but that’s what will continue happening until Senate Republicans have the courage to change their broken, arcane rules - which they can do right now with just 51 votes. While there were some good things in this bill that I supported, including excellent levels of funding for our military and NASA, on balance it included too many misguided policies and too much misdirected spending for me to vote for it.”
03.15.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) issued the following release today on the inaugural meeting of his student space advisory caucus held on Friday, March 2, 2018, in Nassau Bay, Texas. The Students for Space Congressional Advisory Council (SSCAC) is comprised of high school juniors from public, private, and homeschools across Rep. Babin’s Congressional District. Each school had the opportunity to nominate one student to participate and serve on this council. Students were chosen based on their academic standing, their focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM), and in many cases, their strong interest in our nation’s space program. Rep. Babin spoke to the group about America’s space program, his role as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Space, congratulated them on their SSCAC selection, and encouraged them to pursue STEM in college and consider a future role in our space program. “I truly enjoyed meeting this group of exceptional students,” said Rep. Babin. “We are so proud of their participation in this council. These bright young individuals represent the future – a generation who will be at the forefront as the U.S. returns to the Moon and moves humans deeper into space.” The day-long meeting included speakers from industry and NASA. Boeing’s Matt Duggan, Shuttle Astronaut Karen Nyberg, and NASA Flight Director and Acting Deputy Chief of the Flight Director’s Office Emily Nelson spoke about various aspects of our nation’s space program, including current challenges and initiatives. Senior Advisor for Space Policy, Jeannie Kranz, from Rep. Babin’s staff, closed out the day. She shared some of her many experiences in the space program – from what it is like being the daughter of famed Apollo 13 NASA Flight Director Gene Kranz to trying to find her place and make her own contributions to the space industry. Kranz conveyed to the students how critically important it is to find their career interests and gain exposure to opportunities via internships or job shadowing. “Our meeting was insightful and the experience was definitely one to remember,” noted Alayna Walston, West Hardin High School. “The kickoff went great and it definitely opened my eyes and perspective of what I’d like to pursue as a career,” said Marcos Godinez, Premier High School of Dayton-Charter. SSCAC representatives from across the district include: Nathan Bernardez, Pasadena Memorial High School; Brooke Byley, Woodville High School; Brandon Curl, Bridge City High School; Landon Flowers, Buna High School; Juston Freeman, Spurger High School; Marcos Godinez, Premier High School of Dayton; Zachary Kelly, Anahuac High School; Jacob Lee, Newton High School; Jasmin Manzano, Warren High School; Tyson McMahon, Grace Homeschool Co-Op; David Montoya, IMPACT Early College High School; Kara Olson, Little Cypress-Mauriceville High School; Ashlyn Overstreet, Chester High School; Ashley Peaster, Lumberton High School; David Thompson, Corrigan-Camden High School; Alayna Walston, West Hardin High School; Emily Eddins, Colmesneil High School; Kameron Frischenmeyer, Hull-Daisetta High School; and Nathan Vaughn, Tyler County Homeschool Fellowship. “I really enjoyed learning more about NASA and hearing from people who are leaders in the space program. They definitely opened my eyes to what’s really going on and what we as a nation might accomplish someday,” stated David Thompson, Corrigan Camden High School.
03.15.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has introduced the Municipal Infrastructure Savings and Transparency Act, legislation to open up the bidding and development process for federally-funded public works projects and allow them to incorporate innovative and cost-effective building materials. Congress has an obligation to get the most out of every taxpayer dollar it spends, but that is simply not happening right now with federally-funded public works projects. This legislation empowers engineers and architects by allowing them to choose from a full spectrum of building materials and components, and not just those that a municipal government deems appropriate. Instead of government picking winners and losers when it comes to building materials, it shifts that responsibility and final judgment to where it belongs – the engineers and architects doing the construction. “President Trump is committed to rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, and so am I, but we can’t repeat the inefficient and ineffective practices of the past and frankly, the present,” said Rep. Babin. “This bill makes a simple but critical reform to our federally-funded procurement and project-development process by returning authority and responsibility to the construction professionals who know best. As we come together on President Trump’s signature infrastructure proposal, the next Water Resources Development Act and other legislation, this bill will ensure we use the best products and get the best return on investment to the taxpayer.” You can read the bill here. You can read a one-page summary of the bill here. Several companies and organizations, representing thousands of employees in the 36th District of Texas and across the country, have already come out in support of the legislation: "This legislation will ensure that all materials can be considered for an infrastructure project receiving federal funds. Allowing for open competition of materials will lead to more innovation and taxpayer savings for these critical projects.” –Bob Patel, CEO of LyondellBasell “Leading Builders of America supports the Municipal Infrastructure Savings and Transparency Act. Our members are America’s builders and the costs of state and local regulations including mandates requiring the use of certain materials limit our ability to innovate and unnecessarily drive up housing costs for home buyers. Leading Builders of America supports opening competition so we can use the right materials for the project to build strong and affordable communities.” – Ken Gear, CEO of the Leading Builders of America “We commend Congressman Babin for introducing legislation that will help modernize our nation’s crumbling infrastructure while saving taxpayer dollars. The Municipal Infrastructure Savings and Transparency Act will break through outdated regulatory barriers and let project managers consider all technologies and select the most innovative and cost-effective solutions for the job instead of being mandated to use pre-selected materials. It’s estimated that adopting reforms like the ones in this legislation that allow for open competition could save over $370 billion on water infrastructure projects alone. We urge Congress to include this sensible bill as part of the legislative package to repair our failing infrastructure and help communities across the country.” –Cal Dooley, President and CEO of the American Chemistry Council “Repairing our nation’s infrastructure will require a great deal of resources and our government owes it to the taxpayers to make sure that engineers can select the most cost-effective, efficient and innovative materials. Congressman Babin has come up with a sensible solution for freeing cities from material mandates and helping them make the most of federal dollars. I want to personally thank the Congressman for his leadership on eliminating outdated regulatory requirements and introducing legislation to create a fair and open bidding process for infrastructure projects.” –Mark Lashier, President and CEO of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company “America’s aging infrastructure is in desperate need of repair and we thank Congressman Babin for introducing this important legislation. The Municipal Savings and Transparency Act will increase market competition, resulting in more efficient use of taxpayer money for critical infrastructure upgrades. We urge Congress to support this legislation that allows for wise and efficient investment in our nation’s infrastructure.” –Matt Davis, President, Dow North America and Senior Vice President, Global Public Affairs & Government Affairs, The Dow Chemical Company “The Plastics Pipe Institute supports the Municipal Infrastructure Savings and Transparency Act. Our members produce plastic pipes for water and gas distribution, sanitary sewer lines and stormwater systems that have already been proven in helping upgrade American infrastructure. This bill will only help to accelerate that process for the benefit of everyone in this country.” –Tony Radoszewski, President of the Plastic Pipe Institute “It is no secret that our nation’s infrastructure has suffered from decades of neglect and underinvestment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that an additional $2 trillion in spending is needed over the next 10 years to bring America’s water systems, roads, bridges and dams into the 21st Century. But with smart, comprehensive policies, we can reduce the costs for taxpayers and develop more resilient, sustainable infrastructure in the process. The Municipal Infrastructure and Savings Act would help achieve this goal by allowing local engineers to make more informed decisions about the materials they choose for their project. For example, recent research has shown that municipalities can save 30% in water infrastructure project material costs when open competition is applied. We want to thank Congressman Babin for his leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him to develop more sustainable infrastructure.“ –Dick Mason, Chairman of The Vinyl Institute
02.22.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) issued the following statement today about the meeting his office organized earlier this week regarding the opioid crisis in the Southeast Texas Region. “This week, we gathered key stakeholders in the Southeast Texas Region to discuss the importance of working collaboratively to develop strategies to reduce the opioid crisis in our region. We had a panel of experts that discussed current resources as well as gaps from the national, state, and local grassroots perspective. Among the wide variety of participants were representatives from those involved in treatment, education, law enforcement, healthcare, recovery and prevention. There are varying needs and approaches to prevention, treatment and interdiction across our large state and communities large and small.” “In addition to sharing ideas and approaches we also identified the need to enhance the collection of accurate data collection as Texas and our communities compete for funding. Meeting participants were given an opportunity to express their concerns and share their willingness to be involved in the future working groups to address this growing need. This was an important first step in informing stakeholders, identifying challenges and introducing to one another those who are engaged in addressing various aspects of the opioid crisis. Working together we hope to foster a greater collaboration on successful strategies to combat this growing crisis.” “I want to thank my staff and all of the participants for what they did to make this meeting successful. And, I offer a special thanks to Associate Commissioner for Behavior Health and IDD Services, Sonja Gaines, who serves with Texas Health and Human Services Commission and traveled from Austin to the meeting this week to listen to and offer her assistance to our community.”
02.21.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) issued the following statement today recognizing Captain Michael McGee and Captain Michael Phillips for their courageous actions that prevented a major maritime disaster on the Houston Ship Channel in 2016. “It was my distinct honor to present Captain Michael McGee and Captain Michael Phillips with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in their honor, recognizing them for their heroic efforts aboard the 800ft tank-ship AFRAMAX RIVER. In September of 2016, one of the ship’s fuel tanks was ruptured after it hit parts of the docking station following an engine failure. After the ruptured fuel tank caught fire, Captains McGee and Phillips worked to put the fire out and kept it from spreading to nearby ships. Their bravery earned them the 2017 Award for Exceptional Bravery at Sea, which is given by the International Maritime Pilots Association. We are proud to have these heroic fellow Texans serving and working in our community.”
02.21.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) issued the following statement today recognizing veteran John Jerrell Nichols, Sr., of Clear Lake, who never received the medals he earned after honorably serving in World War II. “Seventy-one years after his heroic acts, Army veteran, John Jerrell Nichols, Sr. is honored by a grateful nation. First Sergeant Nichols was awarded the Bronze Star Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal (with two campaign stars), Combat Infantry Badge, Good Conduct Medal, Army Occupation Ribbon, and American Theatre Ribbon for his service during World War II. When we heard that First Sergeant Nichols had earned these medals but never received them, my office and I, went to work to secure these medals for him. I would like to encourage veterans who have not received their medals to call my office at (832) 780-0966. We would consider it a high honor to serve you in this way.”
02.01.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (R-TX-36) & Steve King (R-IA-04), along with 23 other Members of Congress, today sent a letter to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) asking them to support the pending application for an exemption from the electronic logging device (ELD) mandate for small trucking businesses with exemplary safety records. “For the last six months, I have worked every day to try and delay the implementation of the electronic logging device (ELD) mandate. Unfortunately, on December 18th of last year the mandate did in fact go into effect, and the only realistic option for relief at this time for most independent truck drivers is through a waiver issued by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the FMCSA. So while I continue to believe in and fight for a waiver for all American truckers, I am proud to support the exemption request for small business trucking fleets recently filed by the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA). Along with my good friend Steve King from Iowa, we have assembled a bipartisan coalition of our colleagues from all across America in support of this common-sense request. I sincerely hope that FMCSA will listen to our request and prevent this mandate from causing any more harm to the small business truckers who help make America work.” The full letter can be read below: February 1, 2018 The Honorable Cathy F. Gautreaux Deputy Administrator Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, DC 20590 Re: FMCSA 2017-0356, Hours of Service of Drivers: Application for Exemption; Owner Operator Independent Drivers Association, Inc. Dear Deputy Administrator Gautreaux: The best course of action with regards to the electronic logging device (ELD) mandate is still to issue a 90-day relief period for all sectors of the trucking industry as your agency continues to examine and adjudicate the numerous applications for exemptions and waivers. We write to you in support of one of those applications today: the ELD exemption of small trucking businesses with exemplary safety records. We encourage the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) to grant this application submitted by the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA), which would provide reasonable relief from the costly and burdensome regulation for many of the trucking industry’s safest and most experienced drivers. OOIDA’s request is responsibly constructed to ensure only motor carriers defined by the Small Business Administration (SBA) as a small-trucking business would qualify for relief from the $2 billion mandate. Additionally, the application stipulates that only motor carriers with a record of no at-fault crashes would be exempted and those with an ‘Unsatisfactory’ safety rating from FMCSA would not be eligible. By sustaining impeccable safety records, the motor carriers that would qualify have already demonstrated the use of an ELD will do nothing to improve their operations. Furthermore, OOIDA’s request would prevent small trucking businesses, who operate on the slimmest of margins, from maintaining costly fleet management devices that provide them no economic or productivity benefits. FMCSA has already granted several requests for exemption from the ELD mandate. Clearly, the agency is capable and willing to provide relief for industries who have demonstrated that exemptions will not decrease safety. In this regard, OOIDA’s application for exemption is unquestionably consistent with those previously granted and merits the agency’s approval. We believe this request is also wholly consistent with the Trump Administration’s goal of providing relief from costly and burdensome federal regulations to American small businesses. Granting OOIDA’s request would further illustrate the administration’s commitment to delivering regulatory relief that will help sustain economic growth. Sincerely, U.S. REPRESENTATIVES: Brian Babin, D.D.S. (TX), Steve King (IA), John R. Moolenar (MI), David Young (IA), Sean Duffy (WI), Kevin Cramer (ND), Jason Smith (MO), Darin LaHood (IL), Adrian Smith (NE), Collin Peterson (MN), Ralph Norman (SC), Clay Higgins (LA), Austin Scott (GA), Scott Perry (PA), Neal P. Dunn, M.D. (FL), Thomas Massie (KY), Kristi L. Noem (SD), Jack Bergman (MI), Dave Brat (VA), Alexander X. Mooney (WV), Ted S. Yoho, D.V.M. (FL), Greg Gianforte (MT), David G. Valadao (CA), Bill Huizenga (MI) and Mike Kelly (PA).
01.31.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) released the following video message applauding President Trump’s State of the Union address: “The message from President Trump was loud and clear…America is back and we are only getting started,” said Rep. Babin. “Each day newspaper headlines announce that businesses are investing billions of dollars to expand here in America, building new factories, creating tens of thousands of new American jobs, and increasing wages for current employees. “This leads to a simple question and an easy answer…are you better off today than you were when President Obama left office? The answer has to be yes. America is on the rise again – and the American people will continue to see the benefits. We are a safer, stronger and more proud nation now. “Over the past year, I am proud of what we have accomplished. Our nation’s security is a top priority once again – and our military is no longer being neglected like it was for the past eight years. The American people are winning each and every day and I look forward to building on these achievements and having another successful year.”
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today after Senate Democrats ended their filibuster and passed a government funding bill: “Senate Democrats have finally come to their senses and agreed to end the #SchumerShutdown and re-open the federal government. But let’s be clear: For three days, Democrats in Congress held our troops and children’s health care hostage in order to get their way on illegal immigration. In the end, their reckless tactics did not work and common sense prevailed. It is my hope that my Democrat colleagues will have learned their lesson and start focusing on the concerns of America’s citizens. The American people deserve much better than politically manufactured shutdowns that put a hand full of illegal immigrants over the safety and security of the American public.”
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) joined his House colleagues today in passing the House-Senate conference report for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), landmark legislation that overhauls America’s tax code to deliver historic tax relief for American workers, families and job creators. The legislation now goes to the Senate where it is expected to pass and be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. “We are now on the verge of delivering a historic and much-deserved win for the American people right before Christmas,” said Rep. Babin. “By cutting taxes for all Americans, eliminating special interest loopholes, doubling the child tax credit and lowering the tax burden on businesses, our bill will increase paychecks, create more jobs and make the tax code simpler and fairer for hardworking Middle-Class Americans. “My priority is to make sure our tax code works for the average American taxpayer. Under the current system, it is the well-connected who have benefited. Our bill eliminates special interest carve outs for lawyers and lobbyists and returns taxpayer money to its rightful owners: hardworking Americans, job creators and savers. “The bottom line is that our bill reduces taxes for all Americans and saves the average American family between $1,000 and 2,000 a year. For American workers, this tax reform bill creates more jobs right here in the U.S. by lowering the tax burden on small and large businesses. Currently, U.S. businesses pay the highest tax rate of any industrialized country at 35%. “Our bill finally overhauls our broken tax code and puts the American taxpayer first while igniting the American economy and building on the already remarkable economic growth we have seen under the Trump Administration. This is truly an exciting and historic moment for the American people.”
12.11.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. House Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-TX) joined President Trump today at the White House as he signed Space Policy Directive – 1 urging NASA to return Americans to the Moon and encourage human space exploration to Mars and beyond. “By signing this space policy directive and refocusing America’s space program on human spaceflight exploration, the President has ensured America’s leadership in space and prioritized our return to the Moon and future manned missions to Mars,” said Chairman Babin. “Under the President’s leadership, we are now on the verge of a new generation of American greatness and leadership in space – leading us to once again launch American astronauts on American rockets from American soil.”
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, which allows law-abiding citizens who are qualified to carry concealed firearms in one state to also carry in other states that allow residents to do so: “As a lifelong gun owner and fervent supporter of the Second Amendment, I am proud to support this common sense bill and empower law-abiding citizens with the ability to exercise their constitutional rights as they travel across state lines. Constitutional rights do not end at state lines and this includes an individual’s ability to exercise their Second Amendment rights. “The current system is too confusing and unfortunately results in some concealed carry permit holders to unknowingly break the law and suffer arrest, while preventing others from carrying over state lines at all. Our bill corrects this infringement on American’s Second Amendment rights and allows concealed carry permit holders the ability to travel freely between states – just like the way a driver’s license works.”
11.17.2017	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressmen Brian Babin (TX-36), Ted Poe (TX-02), Pete Olson (TX-22), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Randy Weber (TX-14), Michael McCaul (TX-10), and Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement regarding the Office of Management and Budget Supplemental Disaster Request: “After reviewing the latest Office of Management and Budget (OMB) supplemental request for disaster recovery, we find the proposal insufficient and unacceptable. We have met personally with the Director of OMB and explained in detail the disaster of Harvey on Texas. Even so, we strongly believe the request is woefully inadequate. Hurricane Harvey and the subsequent flooding events that followed ranks as the second most costly disaster in modern times (the Fukushima Disaster ranks first). While damages are still being determined, estimates currently sit at approximately $190 billion or more. To be clear, this $44 billion proposal, to be split between multiple disaster areas, does not adequately address long-term recovery needs in Texas. The people of Texas need and deserve federal assistance for long-term flood mitigation, which this request does not sufficiently provide. We stand together opposed to this level of funding and will continue to fight to help Texas rebuild.”
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, landmark legislation that will overhaul our broken tax code and deliver much needed tax relief and simplification to the American people and job creators. In response to its passage, Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) released the following video message: “Today is a good day for hardworking Americans. We just passed legislation that will let taxpayers keep more of their paycheck to save, spend, and invest as they see fit. Our bill – the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – will overhaul our broken tax code and finally put the American taxpayer first. We can all agree that hardworking taxpayers are the losers under the current system. Right now, our tax code rewards lawyers, lobbyists and loopholes – while leaving hardworking families and job creators behind. The bill we passed today will change all of that. To me, there is only one special interest group that matters – and that is the American people. “That’s why we simplify the tax code and cut taxes for all Americans to ensure hardworking Americans – like the people I represent in Southeast Texas – can keep more of their hard-earned money. It has been more than 30 years since the last time we overhauled our tax code. And since then it has grown to more than 70,000 pages. I like to put it this way; our current tax code is now longer than the Bible with none of the good news. Over the past 30 years, Washington has piled up all these carveouts and loopholes for special interests —making things far too complicated and far too expensive for hardworking families. “This needs to end – and today the House took a historic step to fix that and deliver long overdue tax relief to the American people. Here are the details; first, we get rid of loopholes. Then we use that money to lower taxes. And then, we simplify the code altogether. Now, instead of seven confusing tax brackets and carveouts, there will be just four – making things so simple that you can file your taxes on a postcard. “Importantly, we also double the standard deduction, increase the child tax credit, eliminate the Death Tax, and preserve the home mortgage interest deduction. In addition – to help create more good jobs right here in America – we lower the tax rate on job creators from 35% down to 20%. Today, many of America’s biggest job producers face the highest tax rate in the world – which makes America less competitive and forces jobs overseas. We fix that in our bill – because we want companies to invest, grow and produce jobs right here in America. We also reduce the tax rate on the income earned by small businesses to no more than 25% – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. “Folks, let us not forget. When we reformed the tax system over 30 years ago, it led to an explosion in jobs and economic growth. With the passage of this bill, we are now on the verge of achieving such greatness again. This is an exciting time – and the American people deserve some good news. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly follow our lead and get a bill passed so we can deliver a tax relief bill to the American people before Christmas. For more details on our bill, please visit www.FairAndSimple.GOP.”
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed an amendment offered by Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) that will authorize the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to examine an issued license for any project that is located in an area that was declared by the President to be a disaster area in 2017. “The people of Southeast Texas are looking for answers from all levels of government about the terrible floods we experienced in the vicinity of Toledo Bend and Lake Livingston,” said Rep. Babin. “By giving FERC an expedited path to examine the licenses for facilities in these disaster areas, they can start to answer those questions and make any necessary reforms or changes as soon as possible. Rep. Babin’s full remarks on the House floor in support of his amendment are as follows: “When a disaster like Hurricane Harvey strikes, the most important job we have is to assist those in harm's way. “From the Texas National Guard to the Louisiana Cajun Navy, to countless volunteers and citizens who have volunteered and contributed their time, their money, and their prayers, we saw across southeast Texas, in the immediate aftermath of that storm, nothing less than a model to which the whole Nation and world can aspire. “I have even compared the rescue of so many Texans by boat to the miracle at Dunkirk. “But when the storm passes, it is just as important that we look for lessons, demand accountability, and work to fix whatever went wrong or may have made this situation worse. “I am pleased to offer this amendment today that will begin to address such an issue. “When a hydropower station is licensed and regulated by FERC, it is not just the power plant that falls under Federal control. Decisions about lake levels, flood storage capacity, and other measurements of the body of water that powers that station are set forth in FERC license protocols and guidelines written and administered by folks who work right here in Washington. “As a former official for the Texas Lower Neches Valley River Authority, I know that these are tough decisions to make, and sometimes it is a matter of choosing between bad and worse options of where to put all of that water. “But in my district, serious concerns have been raised by my constituents and local river authorities about whether FERC's licenses for hydropower facilities need to be adjusted to account for the unprecedented flooding that we just experienced and with the ability to make commonsense changes in the face of an impending flood event. “My amendment ensures that nothing will stand in the way of FERC going in and examining the licenses for any facility located in the path of the terrible disasters that we have seen this year. By passing it with strong bipartisan support, we will make clear that that is just what FERC should do.” ###
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) sent a letter to President Trump urging him to issue an Executive Order to delay Electronic Logging Device (ELD) mandate, which is set to go into effect Dec. 18th, 2017. “Millions of hard working American truckers, farmers and small businesses need you to take immediate and decisive action to protect them from a massive new regulation that is scheduled to go into effect just 39 days from today. I am writing on their behalf with a plan to help you do just that,” the letter states. “Accordingly, I respectfully request that you issue an Executive Order as soon as possible, instructing the Secretary of Transportation to provide an immediate waiver for all trucking sectors and operations subject to this mandate, until such time as it can be certified that implementation will not cause economic or other harm to the millions who are subject to it.” The full letter can be read below: November 9, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, Millions of hard working American truckers, farmers and small businesses need you to take immediate and decisive action to protect them from a massive new regulation that is scheduled to go into effect just 39 days from today. I am writing on their behalf with a plan to help you do just that. This December 18th, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is scheduled to begin implementation and enforcement of the Electronic Logging Device (ELD) mandate[1], a $2 billion regulation written and set in motion by the Obama Administration back in 2015. In consultation with the Congressional Research Service (CRS), I have identified a course of legal, appropriate action that you can take with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to delay this rule and provide much-needed relief to the millions of Americans who will be impacted. Accordingly, I respectfully request that you issue an Executive Order as soon as possible, instructing the Secretary of Transportation to provide an immediate waiver for all trucking sectors and operations subject to this mandate, until such time as it can be certified that implementation will not cause economic or other harm to the millions who are subject to it. Provision 49 U.S.C. 31133(a)(10) stipulates that the Secretary of Transportation may "perform other acts the Secretary considers appropriate" with respect to regulating commercial motor vehicles[2]. Combined with the DOT and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s (FMCSA) authority to issue waivers and exemptions from the ELD mandate[3], which they have already exercised for certain package delivery[4] and rental truck operations[5], I believe the Secretary, the DOT and the FMCSA not only have the authority but the obligation to extend that same relief to all Americans. My preference would be to delay the rule for as long as it takes, but at a bare minimum, I would encourage an initial waiver for all sectors until April 1, 2018. First, a three month delay eliminates the very predictable havoc of trying to implement this massive, complicated regulation just a week before Christmas – perhaps the busiest time for the consumer freight network of the year. Second, this is the same date that the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA) recently announced they would begin to fully enforce this mandate (with partial enforcement starting December 18th)[6] , their well-intentioned but nevertheless ambiguous path forward for public safety officials to gradually begin enforcing this new requirement. Third, an additional three months will provide FMCSA with the time to continue processing applications for waivers and exemptions that are currently under consideration. And finally, this would set a relatively close new deadline for this issue to be revisited, keeping the pressure on both government and industry to answer the questions and solve the challenges that this mandate clearly presents. As you may know, I am the lead sponsor of H.R. 3282, the ELD Extension Act of 2017, which would implement, by law, an additional two-year delay of this mandate. Since introducing that bill back in July, I have had the privilege and honor to meet hundreds of hard working independent truck drivers and others with deep concerns about this mandate from all over the country. Based on the stories and information they have shared with me, here are just some of the concerns that I believe must be addressed by the new leadership you have installed at DOT before this mandate, which, again, was written by the Obama Administration, goes into effect: COST The Obama Administration itself estimated that this regulation will impose $2 billion a year[7] in compliance costs, with a disproportionate impact on small businesses. With Republicans in control of Congress and the White House, the last thing the American People expect us to do is mandate that every hardworking truck driver in America spend thousands of dollars on the purchase, installation and monthly service fee for a government-approved tracking device. SAFETY Claims that these devices will make our roads and drivers dramatically safer are dubious at best, based on research authorized and gathered by the Obama Administration. In fact, some of the large trucking companies with the worst safety records on the road have already been fully utilizing ELD’s in their fleet for years. At a minimum, the reports that the Obama Administration used to justify this rule warrant another review by the team you have put in place at DOT. CYBERSECURITY The ELD device required by the regulation doesn’t just sit in the cab of a truck and monitor motion. It connects directly to the engine and onboard computer of the vehicle itself. The implications of this are particularly profound. There is simply no assurance at this time that these ELD’s, which are being manufactured with components from around the world and sold by numerous companies across America, are safe from a cyberattack that could cause these trucks, many of which carry hazardous materials, to inflict terror on Americans. The National Motor Freight Traffic Association recently commissioned a study by leading security experts laying out this troubling issue, and I have enclosed a summary of it with this letter. Mr. President, rolling back the regulatory overreach of the previous administration has been one of our proudest achievements since you took office. Together, we have now used the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to block 15 separate new burdensome regulations from going into effect, and the economy and stock market have responded in kind. A few powerful interests will tell you that this mandate is good for trucking, and our country, but millions of hardworking people across our country who came together exactly one year ago to elect you president profoundly disagree. I ask that you listen to those millions of voices, and give everyone at least another three months to get this right. In conclusion, I respectfully ask that you respond to this letter or otherwise indicate your intentions on this matter no later than December 1st of this year. While I am hopeful you will undertake this course of action, it is also critically important for these truck drivers to have a clear understanding before the scheduled deadline. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Brian Babin, D.D.S. U.S. Representative (TX-36) cc: Vice President Michael R. Pence Secretary Elaine L. Chao, U.S. Department of Transportation Chairman Bill Shuster, U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman John Thune, U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation Mr. Raymond Martinez, Nominee for Administrator of FMCSA ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) joined his House colleagues in passing an emergency disaster funding bill that includes $15 billion in direct assistance for Texas flood victims of Hurricane Harvey. The measure includes $11 billion to pay anticipated claims for flood insurance and an estimated $4 billion for the FEMA disaster relief fund, which will be used to cover direct housing assistance, home repairs, debris removal and public assistance grants. “This funding bill marks the second installment in critical relief for the people of Texas,” said Rep. Babin. “I will continue working closely with Governor Abbott, local officials and other members of the Texas delegation to make sure the next bill provides the rest of the funding needed to restore Texas. My top priority is to ensure federal resources are made available for my constituents who are still very much in need of help. This bill delivers billions of dollars in immediate relief to our fellow Texans while holding us over until the complete list of restoration projects are identified for the next funding package needed to help rebuild Texas.” In addition to the $15 billion, Texas cities will also have access to a $4.9 billion pool for grants for Community Disaster Loans. These loans help communities with revenue losses due to disasters, so the communities can pay for police and fire protection and other critical local needs during their recovery.
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) joined his House colleagues in passing a Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution (H. Con. Res. 71) that puts America on a sustainable path towards a balanced budget, rebuilds our military and paves the way for fundamental tax reform and relief. “By putting us on a path to a balanced budget and cutting an overgrown federal bureaucracy, this fiscal blueprint is exactly what America needs,” said Rep. Babin. “Just like hardworking Americans, it is time the federal government lives within its means and prioritizes government spending. “Importantly, our budget lays the groundwork for passing pro-growth tax relief for American workers. For far too long, America’s middle-class families have struggled to make ends meet. It is time we have a tax code that works for all Americans and allows them to keep more of their hard-earned money. “Likewise, American business have been put at a competitive disadvantage by facing one of the highest tax rates in the world – making it harder for them to compete and create jobs here at home. By reforming our broken tax code and providing tax relief to those who employ American citizens, it will create jobs and increase take home pay.”
09.28.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today voted for House-passage of the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017 (H.R. 3823), legislation that provides tax benefits and relief to individuals impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. “In my congressional district, countless individuals and families lost nearly everything to Harvey’s floodwaters,” said Rep. Babin. “The stories are heartbreaking. This bipartisan legislation gives them further assistance to rebuild their lives through immediate tax relief while sending another important message that we stand together with our fellow Americans through this extremely difficult time.” H.R. 3823 includes the following tax relief provisions for hurricane victims: Creating a deduction for personal casualty losses with respect to uncompensated losses arising in disaster areas, eliminating the current law requirement that personal casualty losses must exceed 10% of adjusted gross income, Granting penalty-free access to retirement funds, and Encouraging charitable giving from Americans across the country.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in support of the Unified Framework for Fixing Our Broken Tax Code: “This framework – supported by both the White House and leaders in Congress – marks an important first step in delivering pro-growth tax reform and relief to the American people. Having grown to over 70,000 pages long, the current tax code is too costly, complex and burdensome. It is time we simplify our broken tax code and allow Americans to keep more of their hard-earned money. This framework provides an important path forward that will lead to bigger paychecks, more jobs and greater economic freedom for middle class Americans. I look forward to working with my colleagues in achieving this historic opportunity to create a fairer, simpler, less burdensome tax code for the American people.” A few important highlights from the framework include: Enabling taxpayers to file taxes on a postcard Doubling the standard deduction so families keep more of their paychecks Consolidating seven tax brackets to three and closing loopholes Increasing the child tax credit and eliminating the death tax
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), whose congressional district was devastated by flooding from Hurricane Harvey, voted in favor of an emergency relief package that provides $15 billion in funding for recovery efforts in response to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. “I am very pleased that Congress has acted swiftly to ensure relief is available for the millions of Texans impacted by Hurricane Harvey,” said Rep. Babin. “The devastation across Southeast Texas is heartbreaking. It is quite frankly something we have never seen before. My entire congressional district – from Houston to Louisiana – was basically a vast lake. Countless individuals, families, businesses and communities lost nearly everything – their lives completely upended. While I am extremely disappointed this relief package was tied to a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) and debt ceiling increase – without any meaningful reforms – it is absolutely critical that these folks get the relief they so desperately need. These resources will help our fellow Americans put their lives back together and begin the long road to recovery. With Hurricane Irma now bearing down on Florida, it is absolutely critical that we ensure emergency resources remain available to help the immediate and long term recovery efforts for all those impacted.”
09.06.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after the House passed an emergency disaster relief bill that provides $7.85 billion in support of victims of Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Louisiana: “I am very pleased that the House has acted swiftly to ensure those impacted by Harvey receive relief. Our congressional district – the 36th District of Texas – was devastated. All nine counties have been declared federal disaster areas. The devastation is truly heartbreaking. I’ve traveled to each county and assisted in the recovery efforts and met with the victims. My staff is on the ground across the district working with local relief officials to make sure their needs and those of our constituents are met. “This bill provides desperately needed funding as a first step in helping our fellow Americans put their lives back together. It provides a hand up – not a handout. In the midst of this devastation, the entire world has seen the resiliency, compassion and determination of the people of Texas. I urge the Senate to quickly follow suit and send this clean bill to President Trump’s desk. Let’s show the thousands of Americans in desperate need of relief that we stand with them during this very difficult time.”
08.23.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to the removal of Confederate statues at the University of Texas at Austin and across the nation: "The campaign to remove Confederate monuments across the nation being forced upon us by radical leftists, academia, the mainstream media and the guardians of political correctness is shameful and wrong. Every American should oppose racism and extremism in all its forms. Taking down monuments and hiding our history serves no good purpose, which is why 62% of Americans oppose taking them down and think it's a politically correct mistake. "We cannot—and must not—erase our history or judge our past leaders by today's standards. The people of Texas overwhelmingly supported the Confederacy in 1862. This historical fact cannot be changed nor hidden – and it shouldn't. It's a disservice to our citizens and our ancestors who helped create this great country we enjoy today. Where do these politically correct demands end? Do we now begin removing statues of George Washington because he was a slave holder over 200 years ago? Do we change the name of Fort Hood in Texas—the largest US Army base in the country—because it is named after Confederate General John Bell Hood? "The absurdity has gotten so extreme that an Asian-American television sports commentator was recently relieved because his name was Robert Lee! I was informed that the reason Confederate statues have been taken down at UT in Austin is to protect them from vandalism by students. I would ask how they have stood for over a century unscathed all that time by the students! Vandalism is against the law and anyone who destroys public property should be prosecuted. I strongly disagree with these actions that revise our true history and divide our country at a time when we desperately need national unity. Let’s preserve our monuments and address the real problems of our nation."
08.14.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia: “There is no place in America for the violence and extremism that took place in Charlottesville, Virginia. We must stand united against all forms of evil and violence directed at our fellow Americans. I call for a swift and complete investigation by the Department of Justice.”
07.27.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today after voting in support of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, legislation that fully funds President Trump’s request for a wall along our southern border. “The Make America Secure Appropriations Act puts America on a stronger and more secure path forward that rebuilds our military, secures our southern border and prioritizes funding for our troops, veterans and their families. Importantly, it fully funds President Trump’s border wall, gives our troops the largest pay raise in eight years and provides the highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). I am proud to support this legislation and deliver on our constitutional duty to uphold the security of our nation and ensure the safety of America’s citizens at home and abroad.” The Make America Secure Appropriations Act: Fully funds President Trump’s FY2018 $1.6 billion request for a wall along our southern border. Gives our troops a much-deserved pay raise — the largest military pay raise in eight years. Rebuilds our military with a substantial increase for the Department of Defense. Pays for updated equipment and weapons so that our men and women serving abroad are fully equipped and prepared for warfare. Takes care of our veterans by providing the highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), a member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, today announced that he has introduced H.R. 3282, the ELD Extension Act of 2017, legislation that would provide for an additional two year delay before mandatory implementation of Electronic Logging Devices (ELD) on all American freight trucks. Under current law and regulation, the mandate is scheduled to go into effect December 18th, 2017 – just five months from now. “While technology like ELD’s have great promise, I didn’t come to Washington to force those ideas on small businesses – and neither did President Trump” said Rep. Babin. “If trucking companies want to continue implementing and using ELD’s, they should go right ahead. But for those who don’t want the burden, expense and uncertainty of putting one of these devices into every truck they own by the end of the year, we can and should offer relief.” The MAP-21 highway bill (Public Law 112-141) signed into law by President Obama in 2012 (prior to Rep. Babin’s service in Congress) included a mandate for the installation and usage of Electronic Logging Devices (ELD) on all trucks no later than two years after the final rules for such a mandate were issued. While the mandate was crafted with the good intention of modernizing America’s freight truck network and helping truckers and their employers comply with Hours of Service (HOS) and other regulations, it is now abundantly clear that more time is needed, especially for small trucking companies and independent drivers who will be disproportionally affected by the cost of compliance with these new rules. “We appreciate Congressman Babin’s leadership on this issue. While we still believe the ELD mandate should be outright repealed, FMCSA simply isn’t ready to implement this rule,” OOIDA Executive Vice President Todd Spencer said. “Congressman Babin’s bill would provide more time for the agency to address a number of significant unresolved concerns identified by stakeholders.”
07.10.2017	Deer Park, TX – On Thursday, July 6th, the Houston Police Department provided U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36) and Randy Weber (TX-14) with an aerial tour of the Southeast Texas coastline to assess the need for an enhanced coastal barrier protection system. “Nearly one-third of our states' $1 trillion economy has a direct connection to this area, and projects like the Coastal Spine hurricane barrier will protect lives, property and businesses no matter what comes our way,” said Rep. Babin. “Protecting this area isn't just good for Texas homeowners and businesses – it's a national priority. Our region is the home plate for America's domestic energy production, and by taking proactive steps now to mitigate the damage from a storm we can avoid the much more costly and disruptive process that we experienced in the aftermath of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Getting these projects underway is one of my top priorities in Congress, and with President Donald J. Trump and other administration officials committed to cutting through the red tape and regulatory burdens, we are closer than ever to getting it done.”
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) today voted to pass the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004), two common sense bills that crackdown on sanctuary cities and enhance penalties for deported criminal aliens. Rep. Babin spoke passionately on the House floor in support of both bills. To watch the video, please click here. Excerpts of his remarks are below. “This Saturday, July 1st, marks two years since the tragic death of 32-year old Kate Steinle – who was shot and killed by an illegal immigrant who had seven prior felony convictions and who had also been deported from the U.S. five times. Kate’s death is a clear reminder that we must do more to stop the abuse of our immigration laws by criminals that repeatedly flaunt the rule of law. Kate’s law puts in place new guidelines for stiffer penalties for criminal aliens who continue to re-enter the U.S. illegally. It is an important step in restoring law and order – and will protect American lives. “Sadly, there are local and state officials in our great nation that put the interests of criminal aliens before the safety of American citizens. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act is common sense bill that cuts off certain federal DOJ grants to these sanctuary cities. Our bill redirects these funds to states and localities that are cooperating with federal immigration authorities and making America safer. This legislation sends a clear message – American taxpayers are tired of footing the bill for states and localities that threaten their safety. Our streets will be made safer by deporting these criminal aliens rather than letting them loose into American streets.”
06.27.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today applauding the EPA’s decision to repeal the Obama-era Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule that would have given the federal government unprecedented authority to regulate virtually all water flows in America, including ditches and farmland ponds: “This is welcome news for Texas farmers, ranchers and land owners. The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule was a massive EPA federal power grab by unelected government bureaucrats that uniquely hurt rural communities and trampled on private property rights. I commend EPA Administrator Pruitt for restoring common sense and returning decision making authority back to our local communities – and away from bureaucrats in Washington, DC.”
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s unanimous ruling to allow much of President Trump’s executive order on extreme vetting to take effect: “Today’s ruling is a major victory for America’s national security and an important step in reining in activist judges and restoring the separation of powers. President Trump's executive order on extreme vetting is absolutely necessary to keep Americans safe. It is a targeted and common sense approach that is focused on the real threat posed by terrorists entering the United States from these failed and terror-prone states. As elected officials, we have no higher duty than to ensure the safety and security of the American people. I commend President Trump for making America’s security a top priority. We cannot allow our refugee and immigration programs to serve as a ‘Trojan Horse’ threat to the American people.”
06.20.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today filed legislation to grant properly trained and certified Members of Congress the ability to conceal carry a personal firearm wherever their duties take them. This would complement concealed carry reciprocity legislation that Rep. Babin has cosponsored to enable licensed concealed carry permit holders in one state to carry in another state, including the District of Columbia. “The tragic events of last week make it clearer than ever that we need to take steps to enable Members of Congress to protect themselves,” said Rep. Babin. “We also know that an even greater tragedy was averted only because of the brave actions by two armed Capitol Police special agents who happened, mercifully, to be on site. My bill would ensure rank and file Members of Congress have the opportunity to defend themselves by providing them the ability to concealed carry in nearly every scenario with only a few restrictions. With the increase in security threats to Members of Congress and our staffs, this is an important and necessary step that we must take.” This bill would: Allow all Members of Congress to have the ability to attempt to qualify for a concealed carry permit – either through their home state or a training program created by the United States Capitol Police (USCP). Give the USCP the discretion in determining the training, licensing and parameters of use Direct the USCP to grant Members of Congress the ability to concealed carry in nearly every conceivable scenario – including federal parks and buildings, the national mall, to and from their offices, at schools and military bases - with only a few limited restrictions. These would include National Special Security Events, other areas under the direct jurisdiction of the Secret Service and commercial airliners. Permit the training and certification to be paid for out of the Member’s Representational Allowance (MRA). Supersede any other federal or state law regarding concealed carry.
06.14.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement in response to this morning’s shooting at a Republican congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, VA: “I am deeply sickened and angry by this morning’s targeted shooting of Republicans at a congressional baseball practice. My prayers are with my colleague House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police, Congressional staff and all those who were injured. I am extremely grateful for the heroic response from the two Capitol Police officers who rushed the shooter at their own peril, as well as my colleagues who shielded and tended to the wounded and the rapid response by the local authorities and first responders. With the victims being unarmed, their actions saved countless lives. As more information continues to come available, it is clear that the extreme and hateful rhetoric directed at our President and members of Congress must come to an end. Despite our political differences, this level of hate has no place in our political discourse.”
06.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to pass the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 1094), bipartisan legislation that will streamline the process to remove, demote or suspend VA employees who have failed to effectively serve our veterans. This legislation, which now goes to the President’s desk for his signature, will also expand protections for whistleblowers, bar the VA from removing an employee who has an open complaint and give the VA Secretary the authority to appoint permanent medical directors who can provide the steady leadership that VA hospitals and their patients need. “Each year, we hold veterans town hall meetings across the 36th District of Texas to bring the VA directly to our local veterans,” said Rep. Babin. “At these events, we often hear firsthand about the specific problems these men and women face with the VA. While the vast majority of VA employees are trying to do their best, there are far too many bad actors that need to be fired. This bill brings real accountability to the VA and it will change the culture at the VA to ensure the interests of our veterans are always being put first. As a veteran myself and the father of a decorated Navy SEAL, I was proud to support this bill to help see that our veterans get the quality care they have earned and deserve.” Rep. Babin has also supported the following bills to better serve our nation’s veterans: EXPANDING AND IMPROVING VETERANS BENEFITS AND SERVICES ✓ Provide Full-Benefit COLA Increase for Veterans (Voted YES on H.R. 1259) ✓ Streamline and Modernize Appeals Process (Voted YES on H.R. 2288) ✓ Expand Health Care Access for Elderly Veterans (Voted YES on H.R. 1005) ✓ Improve VA’s care for PTSD and traumatic brain industry (Voted YES on H.R. 1162) ✓ Enhance Timeliness for VA Compensation Exams (Voted YES on H.R. 1725) ✓ Ensure Blue Water Navy Veterans Exposed to Agent Orange Receive Care (Cosponsored H.R. 299) ✓ Prioritize VA Funding for Veterans Not Bureaucrats (Introduced House Amend. 186) HOLDING VA BUREAUCRATS ACCOUNTABLE AND PUTTING VETERANS FIRST ✓ Empower VA to fire bad employees (Voted YES on H.R. 1259) ✓ End the Abuse of VA Waitlists (Voted YES on H.R. 467) ✓ Ensure Failing VA Employees are Identified and Held Accountable (Voted YES on H.R. 27) ✓ Enable Congressional Caseworkers to Better Help Veterans (Voted YES on H.R. 512) ✓ Improve VA’s Ability to Hire High-Quality Employees (Voted YES on H.R. 1367) IMPROVING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES, JOBS AND WELLBEING FOR VETERANS ✓ Boost and Prioritize Veteran Hiring (Voted YES on H.R. 974) ✓ Protect Second Amendment Rights of Veterans (Voted YES on H.R. 1181) ✓ Allow Veterans to Qualify for Premium Health Care Assistance Tax Credits (Voted YES on H.R. 2372) ✓ Enable Veterans to Use GI Benefits for Apprenticeship Programs (Cosponsored H.R. 2551) ✓ Expedite Hiring of Qualified Veterans for Border Patrol Jobs (P.L. 114-68) MEETING THE NEEDS OF OUR CURRENT SERVICE MEMBERS ✓ Provide Biggest Pay Raise For Our Troops in Six Years (P.L. 114-328) ✓ Fully Fund Troop Training and Readiness (Voted YES on H.R. 5293) ✓ Ensure Robust and Responsible Funding for the VA (Voted YES on H.R. 4974) ✓ Support Full Repeal of Military Sequestration Cuts (Cosponsor H.R. 1441)
06.09.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) voted this week to pass the Financial CHOICE Act (H.R. 10), which creates a more reliable and accountable financial system by repealing the most onerous provisions of Dodd-Frank that have hampered economic growth and job creation. “Under Dodd-Frank, community banks have collapsed while big banks in New York and those with strong DC connections have only become larger and more powerful than ever,” said Rep. Babin. “Dodd-Frank allows the largest hand full of banks to have a competitive advantage over smaller community banks and credit unions. This bureaucratic nightmare imposes a confusing and costly burden for Americans seeking a home mortgage and small businesses who want to expand and create new jobs. “The House passed the CHOICE Act to replace Dodd-Frank with policies that will provide Americans with more financial choices and freedom while growing jobs and a healthy economy. The CHOICE Act strengthens financial accountability, imposes tougher penalties for financial fraud, ends taxpayer bailouts of the big banks and ensures that consumers have more choices. I am hopeful that the Senate will follow suit and send this critical piece of legislation to the President’s desk.” The CHOICE Act includes important provisions that: End taxpayer bailouts for large financial institutions by repealing Dodd-Franks’ “Too Big to Fail” policies Create more accountability for regulators Ease burdens so that small businesses – America’s #1 job creators – have greater access to loans from community financial institutions Put in place policies that will enhance job creation and economic growth Ensure that consumers have more choices, rather than have their choices limited by unelected government bureaucrats Create greater financial certainty and better opportunities for Americans to save for their future Hold the Federal Reserve accountable through greater transparency and audits Impose stronger penalties for those who engage in insider trading or corruption
06.07.2017	Baytown, TX – On Friday, June 2nd, at a ceremony hosted by the Baytown Police Department, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin expressed his sincere thanks to each law enforcement agency involved in investigating the murder of Harris County Pct. 3 Asst. Chief Deputy Constable Clint Greenwood. Rep. Babin presented Congressional Record statements to representatives from each agency thanking them for their diligent and thorough investigative work during this very difficult time. To watch video of the event, please click here. “My hat goes off to the Baytown Police Department, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), U.S. Marshals Service, Houston Police Department, Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force, Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS), Texas Rangers, Harris County Sheriff’s Department, Harris County Precinct 3 Constable’s Office and Harris County District Attorney,” said Rep. Babin. “These men and women showed tremendous determination and commitment in their efforts to find this evil perpetrator and deliver justice. While we continue to mourn the loss of another one of our brave Texas law enforcement officers, their hard work and tireless efforts have helped bring healing and closure to the family and the entire law enforcement community.”
06.07.2017	Houston, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX), who is Chairman of House Space Subcommittee, today joined Vice President Mike Pence, U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) for the 2017 Astronaut Selection Announcement Ceremony at NASA’s Johnson Space Center. “It was my distinct honor today to join Vice President Pence, Sen. Ted Cruz, Chairman Lamar Smith and the entire NASA team at Johnson Space Center in announcing NASA’s newest astronauts,” said Chairman Babin. “After being selected from a record number of applicants, these 12 men and women represent America’s best and brightest. Their remarkable stories and exceptional backgrounds serve as an inspiration to all Americans – and I wish them all the very best as they lead America into the next chapter of human space flight. Human space flight is teamwork. It takes astronauts and the ground crew at JSC and across NASA to ensure mission success. We are honored to have them on board.”
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in support of President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the United Nations (U.N.) Paris Climate Change Agreement that was negotiated under the Obama Administration: “I applaud President Trump for standing up for the interests of the American worker and withdrawing from the United Nation’s Paris Climate Change Agreement. This agreement, which was never ratified by the Senate, was poorly negotiated by the Obama Administration and is simply a bad deal for the American people. It punishes hardworking Americans with higher energy costs, fewer jobs and smaller paychecks while providing virtually no meaningful benefit to the environment and doing very little to hold the world’s top polluters, like China, accountable. “Furthermore, it would uniquely hurt the people of the 36th District of Texas by threatening the many good-paying jobs provided by our area’s petrochemical and refining facilities. While this decision will not sit well with out-of-touch liberal politicians and pro-U.N. globalists, President Trump was elected to put American workers first and turn back such bad deals that undermine U.S. competitiveness and jobs.”
05.30.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) sent a letter to President Trump last week requesting a full review of each case involving any U.S. service member who is currently imprisoned in U.S. prisons for certain actions taken during combat in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. “Under the Obama Administration, we saw the continued release of violent terrorists from U.S. custody in Guantanamo Bay – with many of them returning to the battle against U.S. forces,” the letter states. “Meanwhile, these young American men who answered the call to duty and put their lives on the line for our freedoms continue to languish in prison. “I respectfully ask that your Administration fully review each case involving any American service member who is currently imprisoned for actions taken on the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such a review is an appropriate action given their previous service and sacrifice in defense of the United States.” The full letter can be read here and below: May 25, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, It is with great concern that I write you regarding U.S. service members currently imprisoned in U.S. prisons for certain actions taken during combat in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. As you know, our troops face extremely difficult decisions while serving in the heat of battle. These moments present life-or-death consequences not only for them, but for the men and women with whom they serve. As a veteran myself and the father of a highly decorated U.S. Navy SEAL with multiple deployments to Iraq, I have great respect and admiration for the young men and women who have served in these conflicts. Far too often, we forget that a tiny fraction of our society has shouldered the immense burden of these wars. These men and women voluntarily joined the military and answered our nation’s call to duty. Sadly, in some instances, it seems the military and previous administrations have been too quick and too severe in the punishments of these service members for certain decisions they made while serving in combat. These service members were dealing with extremely intense situations that few can understand. Let’s not forget that many of these service members, who remain incarcerated in U.S. prisons, saw their fellow troops killed or injured during hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan where over 6,000 Americans have been killed and over 50,000 injured. I have met with the parents and friends of some of these service members who are still incarcerated. They are pleading for a simple review of these cases in hopes of a possible clemency or reduction in sentencing. I believe that under the leadership of your new Administration we should take a fresh look at these cases. Under the Obama Administration, we saw the continued release of violent terrorists from U.S. custody in Guantanamo Bay – with many of them returning to the battle against U.S. forces. Meanwhile, these young American men who answered the call to duty and put their lives on the line for our freedoms continue to languish in prison. Furthermore, on the way out of office, President Obama pardoned a traitor in Bradley Manning—someone who put the lives of American soldiers and allies at risk—while ignoring the pleas of the families of these American troops to simply review their incarceration. I respectfully ask that your Administration fully review each case involving any American service member who is currently imprisoned for actions taken on the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such a review is an appropriate action given their previous service and sacrifice in defense of the United States. Respectfully, Rep. Brian Babin Member of Congress
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement on President Trump's 2018 budget proposal: “I commend the President and his Administration for putting forth a serious budget proposal that restrains federal spending while prioritizing national security in our military and along our borders. By moving us toward a balanced budget, this fiscally responsible budget plan is a welcome departure from the Obama-years, which had increases in deficit spending every year as far as the eye could see. With a staggering national debt of $20 trillion, it is long past due to stop piling debt on our children and grandchildren. To get our fiscal house in order and put America on a sustainable path, it will require tough decisions. The President’s budget is a great starting point and an important first step in our efforts to create a more efficient federal government that respects taxpayers.”
05.11.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to President Trump’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey: “Over the past year, the integrity and credibility of the FBI has been severely damaged under the leadership of Director Comey and his mishandling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server. This has been a criticism universally shared by members of both parties, including the Senate’s top Democrat, Chuck Schumer, who stated that he had lost confidence in Director Comey. “After reading the recommendation for dismissal laid forth by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein – who also served as a U.S. attorney under the Obama Administration – it was clear to me that Director Comey needed to go as he had lost confidence and respect from the men and women he was entrusted to lead and serve.” The recommendation letter from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein can be read here and below: MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FROM: ROD J. ROSENSTEIN, DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL SUBJECT: RESTORING PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE FBI The Federal Bureau of Investigation has long been regarded as our nation's premier federal investigative agency. Over the past year, however, the FBI's reputation and credibility have suffered substantial damage, and it has affected the entire Department of Justice. That is deeply troubling to many Department employees and veterans, legislators and citizens. The current FBI Director is an articulate and persuasive speaker about leadership and the immutable principles of the Department of Justice. He deserves our appreciation for his public service. As you and I have discussed, however, I cannot defend the Director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails, and I do not understand his refusal to accept the near universal judgment that he was mistaken. Almost everyone agrees that the Director made serious mistakes; it is one of the few issues that unites people of diverse perspectives. The Director was wrong to usurp the Attorney General's authority on July 5, 2016, and announce his conclusion that the case should be closed without prosecution. It is not the function of the Director to make such an announcement. At most, the Director should have said the FBI had completed its investigation and presented its findings to federal prosecutors. The Director now defends his decision by asserting that he believed Attorney General Loretta Lynch had a conflict. But the FBI Director is never empowered to supplant federal prosecutors and assume command of the Justice Department. There is a well-established process for other officials to step in when a conflict requires the recusal of the Attorney General. On July 5, however, the Director announced his own conclusions about the nation's most sensitive criminal investigation, without the authorization of duly appointed Justice Department leaders. Compounding the error, the Director ignored another longstanding principle: we do not hold press conferences to release derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation. Derogatory information sometimes is disclosed in the course of criminal investigations and prosecutions, but we never release it gratuitously. The Director laid out his version of the facts for the news media as if it were a closing argument, but without a trial. It is a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do. In response to skeptical questions at a congressional hearing, the Director defended his remarks by saying that his “goal was to say what is true. What did we do, what did we find, what do we think about it.” But the goal of a federal criminal investigation is not to announce our thoughts at a press conference. The goal is to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to justify a federal criminal prosecution, then allow a federal prosecutor who exercises authority delegated by the Attorney General to make a prosecutorial decision, and then -- if prosecution is warranted -- let the judge and jury determine the facts. We sometimes release information about closed investigations in appropriate ways, but the FBI does not do it sua sponte. Concerning his letter to the Congress, on October 28, 2016, the Director cast his decision as a choice between whether he would “speak” about the FBI's decision to investigate the newly discovered email messages or “conceal” it. “Conceal” is a loaded term that misstates the issue. When federal agents and prosecutors quietly open a criminal investigation, we are not concealing anything; we are simply following the longstanding policy that we refrain from publicizing nonpublic information. In that context, silence is not concealment. My perspective on these issues is shared by former Attorneys General and Deputy Attorneys General from different eras and both political parties. Judge Laurence Silberman, who served as Deputy Attorney General under President Ford, wrote that "it is not the bureau's responsibility to opine on whether a matter should be prosecuted." Silberman believes that the Director's "performance was so inappropriate for an FBI director that [he] doubt[s] the bureau will ever completely recover." Jamie Gorelick, Deputy Attorney General under President Clinton, joined with Larry Thompson, Deputy Attorney General under President George W. Bush, to opine that the Director had "chosen personally to restrike the balance between transparency and fairness, departing from the department's traditions." They concluded that the Director violated his obligation to "preserve, protect and defend" the traditions of the Department and the FBI. Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey, who served under President George W. Bush, observed that the Director "stepped way outside his job in disclosing the recommendation in that fashion" because the FBI director "doesn't make that decision." Alberto Gonzales, who also served as Attorney General under President George W. Bush, called the decision "an error in judgment." Eric Holder, who served as Deputy Attorney General under President Clinton and Attorney General under President Obama, said that the Director's decision "was incorrect. It violated long-standing Justice Department policies and traditions. And it ran counter to guidance that I put in place four years ago laying out the proper way to conduct investigations during an election season." Holder concluded that the Director "broke with these fundamental principles" and "negatively affected public trust in both the Justice Department and the FBI." Former Deputy Attorneys General Gorelick and Thompson described the unusual events as "real-time, raw-take transparency taken to its illogical limit, a kind of reality TV of federal criminal investigation," that is "antithetical to the interests of justice." Donald Ayer, who served as Deputy Attorney General under President George H. W. Bush, along with other former Justice Department officials, was "astonished and perplexed" by the decision to "break[] with longstanding practices followed by officials of both parties during past elections." Ayer's letter noted, "Perhaps most troubling ... is the precedent set by this departure from the Department's widely-respected, non-partisan traditions." We should reject the departure and return to the traditions. Although the President has the power to remove an FBI director, the decision should not be taken lightly. I agree with the nearly unanimous opinions of former Department officials. The way the Director handled the conclusion of the email investigation was wrong. As a result, the FBI is unlikely to regain public and congressional trust until it has a Director who understands the gravity of the mistakes and pledges never to repeat them. Having refused to admit his errors, the Director cannot be expected to implement the necessary corrective actions.
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – On Monday, May 1st, 2017, the American Conservative Union Foundation (ACU) presented U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) with the 2016 Award for Conservative Excellence for his perfect 100% conservative voting record in the 115th Congress. Rep. Babin was one of only three Texas Congressmen to receive a perfect score in 2016 and is one of only seven Members of Congress to have a 100% lifetime conservative rating. “It is a great honor to be recognized by the ACU for having one of the most conservative voting records in the U.S. Congress,” said Rep. Babin. “For me, it’s just common sense to vote for individual freedom, limited government and a strong national defense. As a leading conservative in Congress, I will always fight for our conservative values and constitutional principles that make America strong.” The ACU is the nation’s largest and oldest conservative organization. For over 46 years, the ACU has rated Members of Congress on their commitment to conservative values by examining their voting records over the past year in support of liberty, personal responsibility, traditional values, and strong national defense. To view this year’s ACU Ratings, click here.
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today after voting against the $1 trillion omnibus spending bill: “I voted against this $1 trillion government funding bill because it fails to include so many of the goals and priorities that President Trump – and the Republican Congress – were elected to carry out. The reality is, when we hamstring the Republican majority by catering legislation to meet the Senate’s 60 vote supermajority threshold, we are essentially giving Senate Democrat leaders a veto over our legislative and spending priorities. While this bill includes several positive provisions, such as a boost in defense spending, it fails to provide new funding for the border wall or end taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood and sanctuary cities. We must deliver on our promises to the American people and put an end to the abuse of the Senate filibuster that is obstructing President Trump’s conservative agenda.”
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today announcing his opposition to the $1 trillion omnibus spending bill: “I oppose and will be voting against this $1 trillion omnibus spending bill. This is yet another example of why the Senate needs to end the filibuster abuse. When you take President Trump’s veto pen away and give it Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, this is what you end up with.”
04.12.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) sent a letter today to Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging a full and thorough investigation into reports of “unmasking” of U.S. citizens by then-National Security Advisor Susan Rice and other members of the Obama Administration. “The astonishing reports that senior White House officials in the Obama Administration, most notably then-National Security Advisor Susan Rice, may have abused their powers of office to violate the 4th Amendment protections by ‘unmasking’ the identities of U.S. citizens involved with the Donald J. Trump presidential campaign in intelligence reports gives great cause for concern,” the letter states. “Ms. Rice and any others who may have been involved with these activities should be called to account to explain their actions. If the facts do show that indeed these powers were abused, those responsible should be held fully accountable in a fair, impartial and independent inquiry as that is the only way to assure the American people that their privacy rights are going to be protected now and in the future.” The letter can be read here and below: April 11, 2017 Attorney General Jeff Sessions U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: The astonishing reports that senior White House officials in the Obama Administration, most notably then-National Security Advisor Susan Rice, may have abused their powers of office to violate the 4th Amendment protections by “unmasking” the identities of U.S. citizens involved with the Donald J. Trump presidential campaign in intelligence reports gives great cause for concern. On March 31, 2017 on Fox News’ O’Reilly Factor you stated “…we’ve never seen this kind of leaking. This has got to end and it’s probably going to take some convictions to do it.” Mr. Attorney General, I know you have those convictions and I urge you to act on them. The United States of America has the most powerful intelligence capabilities in the world, allowing our enemies no safe quarter anywhere on Earth to plot acts of terror against our homeland and our citizens. The overwhelming majority of our intelligence community responsible for collecting and processing this information on our foreign adversaries are honorable and patriotic public servants. However, all of their good work is overshadowed and undermined when certain officials abuse it to carry out a political agenda. Ms. Rice and any others who may have been involved with these activities should be called to account to explain their actions. If the facts do show that indeed these powers were abused, those responsible should be held fully accountable in a fair, impartial and independent inquiry as that is the only way to assure the American people that their privacy rights are going to be protected now and in the future. I say independent because of the evidence that some responsible parties may still be federal employees. There is no greater abuse of our intelligence capabilities than to turn them on American citizens – regardless of who those citizens are or however elevated their office may be. Furthermore, there is no more significant backdrop on which such activities may have been predicated than with respect to a presidential election. Simply put, Americans must know that we are protected and no one, regardless of position, small or mighty, will in any way use the powers of the intelligence services they command to put their finger on the scale of a presidential election. Any violation of these principles should elicit the maximum punishment available under the law. Anything otherwise, especially to satisfy supporters of these illegal activities who believe the ends justify the means, will only encourage misbehavior in the future and undermine the very agencies that are charged with keeping America safe. The President, the Cabinet, Members of Congress and all government officials take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. In our co-equal system of government, it is not only appropriate but vitally important that breaches of that oath be investigated, and prosecuted when violations are found. I stand with you to see that this and related matters are given your full attention. Nothing short of our freedom, liberty and the very future of our great republic are at stake. Sincerely, Brian Babin, D.D.S.
04.12.2017	Houston, TX – On Saturday, April 1st, 2017, the Office of U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) hosted an awards ceremony at the Crosby Community Center to announce the winners and honor those students who participated in the 36th Congressional District’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition. This year's competition, which included 80 total entries from high school students across the district, followed the theme of “The Great Outdoors of TX-36.” First place was awarded to Dominic Nguyen of Clear Creek High School for his painting of the Battleship Texas, which will now be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “Once again, I was truly impressed with the tremendous talent displayed by our local students,” said Rep. Babin. “Thank you to all those who participated, as well the art teachers and parents who helped guide their students and children through this process. Congratulations to our first place finisher, Dominic Nguyen of Clear Creek High School, on his incredible painting of the Battleship Texas. We look forward to being represented proudly by Dominic’s artwork in the U.S. Capitol.” 2017 Congressional Art Competition Awards: First Place: Dominic Nguyen (Clear Creek High School) Second Place: Harley McNeel (Warren High School) Third Place: Ezekiel Lee (Woodville High School) Honorable Mentions: Deborah Sauceda-Trevino (Goose Creek Lee High School) Samantha Jackman (Deer Park High School) Taya Brown (Deer Park High School) Khayleigh Overstreet (Warren High School) Donna Martin (Chester High School). Participating Schools: C.E. King, Chester, Clear Creek, Crosby, Deer Park High School-North, Deer Park High School South, Goose Creek Lee, La Porte, Little Cypress-Mauriceville, Lumberton, Orangefield, Silsbee, Warren, and Woodville.
04.11.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today applauding the law enforcement agencies involved in solving the murder of Harris County Pct. 3 Asst. Chief Deputy Constable Clint Greenwood: “My deep appreciation and admiration goes out to all the Texas and federal law enforcement officers who worked so diligently in getting to the bottom of the tragic and senseless murder of Chief Deputy Greenwood. My hat goes off to the Baytown Police Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), U.S. Marshals Service, Houston Police Department, Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force, Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS), Texas Rangers, Harris County Sheriff’s Department, and Harris County District Attorney. These men and women showed tremendous determination and commitment in their efforts to find this evil perpetrator and deliver justice. While we continue to mourn the loss of another one of our brave Texas law enforcement officers, their hard work and tireless efforts have helped bring healing and closure to the family and the entire law enforcement community.” Note: On Wednesday, April 5th, Rep. Babin spoke on the House floor to honor the life of Chief Deputy Greenwood.
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in support of President Trump’s targeted military strike on the airfield in Syria from where a deadly chemical weapons attack was launched on innocent civilians, including women and children: “The tyrants and dictators around the world better take notice that for the first time in eight years we have a strong and decisive commander-in-chief in the White House. Syrian Dictator Bashar al-Assad’s barbaric use of chemical weapons on innocent men, women, and children must be met with consequences. As a father and grandfather, it is heart wrenching to see the use of chemical weapons on young children. I commend the President for his firm leadership and making clear to Assad and the entire world that such evil will not be tolerated. American leadership is back and it is high time.”
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today applauding the U.S. Senate confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court: “Congratulations to Judge Gorsuch on being confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court. Throughout his extensive confirmation process, Judge Gorsuch has shown himself to be uniquely qualified and experienced to serve on our nation’s highest court. I commend Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell for standing strong and confirming Judge Gorsuch in the face of unprecedented and hypocritical obstruction by Senate Democrats. Judge Gorsuch’s commitment to our Constitutional principles and judicial restraint is a huge win for the American people, the rule of law and the future of our Democratic Republic.”
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) spoke on the House floor on Wednesday to honor the life of Harris County Precinct 3 Assistant Chief Deputy Constable Clint Greenwood who was tragically murdered on Monday in Baytown, Texas. To watch the video, please click here. His remarks are as follows: “It is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor the life of Harris County Precinct 3 Assistant Chief Deputy Constable Clint Greenwood. On Monday morning, Chief Deputy Greenwood was tragically murdered as he arrived to work at the Baytown Courthouse. “Chief Deputy Greenwood was a respected and committed 30-year law enforcement veteran of the Houston-area. My heartfelt prayers go out to Chief Deputy Greenwood, his family and the entire law enforcement community. “After yet another intentional killing of a Texas law enforcement officer, we must do more to end the continued violence and hate-filled rhetoric directed at our brave law enforcement officers. We hope for a quick apprehension of the evil perpetrator and an answer to why. I stand in strong solidarity with the law enforcement community and offer my deepest condolences to all those impacted by the senseless murder of Chief Deputy Greenwood. Rest in peace Brother Greenwood and May God Bless your family and all those who wear the uniform.”
03.21.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who is Chairman of the House Space Subcommittee, today joined a group of his colleagues at the White House to watch President Donald Trump sign the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 into law. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation reaffirms Congress’ commitment to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and directs NASA to pursue a balanced portfolio of activities. It also includes the TREAT Astronauts Act, which was authored by Rep. Babin to give NASA the ability to care for our astronauts and enhance our understanding of the effects of spaceflight on the human body. To watch video of the bill signing ceremony, click here. Video of Rep. Babin’s remarks can be viewed here. “This is an exciting day for America as we have now entered the next chapter of human space exploration,” said Rep. Babin. “With universal backing in Congress and President Trump’s signature, the NASA Transition Authorization Act puts the United States on a clear path forward by providing certainty and long-term stability to NASA and America’s human space flight programs. I appreciate the hard work of my colleagues in Congress and the leadership of President Trump in advancing this bipartisan effort to further America’s leadership in space. I am also pleased to note the inclusion of the TREAT Astronauts Act, legislation that I introduced to ensure that our nation’s astronauts receive support for medical issues associated with their service while also advancing research in long-term space missions.”
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in support of President Trump's budget blueprint for Fiscal Year 2018: “I commend the President for putting forth a strong and responsible budget plan that puts government on a much-needed diet. It cuts wasteful spending, reins in government bureaucracy, secures our border and restores our military. This budget delivers on the President’s promise to refocus government and put the economic and national security of the American people first. After the past eight years, I am encouraged by this plan and look forward to working with the President and his Administration to ensure these reforms are signed into law.”
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (S.442), which cleared the Senate last month. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation reaffirms Congress’ commitment to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and directs NASA to pursue a balanced portfolio of activities. It now goes to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-Texas): “The NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017 is a bipartisan and bicameral bill that creates certainty and long-term stability for NASA and America’s human space flight programs. The bill continues support for the International Space Station, the Space Launch System, the Orion crew vehicle, and the commercial cargo and crew programs. Its passage puts NASA and America on a clear path forward into the next chapter of space exploration. I am also pleased to note the inclusion of the TREAT Astronauts Act, legislation that I introduced to ensure that our nation’s astronauts receive support for medical issues associated with their service while also advancing research in long-term space missions.” Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas): “The NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017 reaffirms our support for the bold visions and commitments that will shape America’s future in space. This bill reiterates the importance of maintaining NASA’s continuity of purpose to ensure America remains a leader in space exploration. It also directs NASA to create a roadmap for human exploration and guides the future path of exploration for decades to come. With the passage of this bill, we take another step in making America great again. ” Background The NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017 authorizes the House’s proposed Fiscal Year 2017 funding level of $19.5 billion. The bill maintains support for the James Webb Space Telescope, the Space Launch System, the Orion crew vehicle, the International Space Station, and the commercial crew and cargo programs. The bill makes the determination that the technological and scientific goals of the Asteroid Robotic Redirect Mission have not been demonstrated, and requires a report on alternatives to demonstrate the technologies needed for a human mission to Mars. The NASA Transition Authorization Act also supports NASA’s Mars 2020 rover, the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope, as well as direction for a mission to Europa. It directs the NASA administrator to seek reimbursement whenever responsibilities are transferred to NASA from another agency or when NASA funds another agency’s activities. It also includes the TREAT Astronauts Act, which gives NASA the ability to care for our astronauts and enhance our understanding of the effects of spaceflight on the human body.
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX), who has been pushing legislation since 2015 to pause the UN-led refugee resettlement program, issued the following statement today applauding President Trump’s updated executive order to prevent foreign terrorists from entering the United States: “As someone who has been pushing for a suspension of refugees from terrorist hotspots for over a year and a half, I commend the President and his Administration for issuing a new executive order that further enhances America’s national security. This updated executive order will help prevent terrorists from entering the United States while leading to a stronger vetting system. It also closes potential loopholes so that it may not be manipulated by activist federal judges. As elected officials, we have no higher duty than to ensure the safety and security of the American people. I applaud the President for making America’s safety a top priority as we cannot allow our refugee and immigration programs to serve as a ‘Trojan Horse’ threat to the American people.”
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, applauded ExxonMobil’s announcement today that it is expanding its manufacturing capacity along the U.S. Gulf Coast through a $20 billion investment over a 10-year period, including investments in Baytown, Texas. According to ExxonMobil, the new projects are expected to create more than 45,000 high-paying American jobs across the region and thousands more through the multiplier effect. “This is more good news for our community, Texas and the United States,” said Rep. Babin. “The decision by ExxonMobil to invest another $20 billion here in the United States demonstrates their commitment to the American people and the American worker. It will create tens of thousands of jobs, following on the billions of dollars invested in our region over just the past few years. Congress and the Trump Administration have been working overtime to create a jobs-friendly environment that says to companies—who could go anywhere else in the world—that America is open for business and we want you to invest and create jobs here at home. Today’s announcement is another positive step in that direction.”
03.01.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to President Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “The President delivered a powerful and moving speech. He laid out a strong and bold agenda that will better the lives of all Americans. His passion and commitment for keeping the promises he made to the American people is a breath of fresh air. Now is the time for action. The American people elected a Republican President and Congress to get things done. It is absolutely critical that Congress gets behind this President to advance these much-needed policies that will cut taxes, secure our border, repeal and replace Obamacare, rebuild our military and grow America’s economy.”
02.24.2017	Pasadena, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Thursday joined nearly a 100 local veterans at Pappa Yolk's Grill in Pasadena, Texas for a breakfast meeting organized by Dr. Robert Garcia and other community members. Rep. Babin provided the group with a congressional update and answered questions on a range of issues from veteran’s medical care to border and national security. During the event, Rep. Babin also presented WWII and Korean War veterans Robert Lukenbaugh of Deer Park and Raymond Holub of Liberty with Congressional Record statements honoring their service to our nation. “As a veteran myself and the father of a decorated U.S. Navy SEAL, the U.S. military holds a special place in my heart and it is a top priority for me to help those who have served,” Rep. Babin told the crowd. “In Congress, I am proud to represent over 50,000 veterans that call the 36th Congressional District home. It is my duty to see that all our nation’s veterans receive the respect and treatment they have undoubtedly earned and deserve.”
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today introduced the State and Local Pensions Accountability and Security Act, which will protect taxpayers by prohibiting the U.S. Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve from offering any sort of bailout to a state or local government pension system. Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04), the leading voice for fiscal responsibility in the Golden State, joined Rep. Babin as the bill’s lead co-sponsor. The legislation was originally authored as H.R. 1476 in the 114th Congress (2015-2016) by Rep. Babin as his very first bill. “With the election of President Donald Trump and a strong Republican majority in Congress, it’s a new day in Washington, DC.” said Rep. Babin. “We need to send the message to municipal and local governments, many of which are plagued by mismanagement and outright corruption, that they should not expect the American taxpayers to bail out their pension and retirement systems. They have a duty to fulfill the promises they have made to their employees and should not be expecting responsible Americans to bail them out. “Preserving the option for the federal government to do that will only encourage these officials to make poor decisions. Passage of our legislation will send a strong message to these state, municipal and local governments that they must get their own fiscal house in order by making the tough decisions to put these systems on sound footing. By foreclosing the option of a taxpayer bailout, we are taking a positive step to put these pension plans on solid footing.”
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX), a member of the GOP Doctors Caucus, issued the following statement today applauding the confirmation of Rep. Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS): “Having spent three decades as an orthopedic surgeon and public servant, Dr. Tom Price is more than qualified and prepared to lead the Department of HHS. As only the third physician to ever head the agency, he has the experience needed in both medicine and public policy to help address our nation’s growing health care challenges. Dr. Price's confirmation marks an important next step in our efforts to rescue the American people from Obamacare and provide relief to the millions of Americans who continue to suffer under this failed law. I look forward to working with my former "Doc Caucus" member and now Secretary of HHS to repeal Obamacare and replace it with patient-centered solutions that provide Americans with access to quality, affordable care – not costly, government-directed care.”
02.09.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today applauding U.S. Senate confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) as the next U.S. Attorney General: “The confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions as our nation’s top law enforcement officer is welcome news for millions of Americans who have grown frustrated with the direction of the Department of Justice and its failure to uphold the rule of law. Attorney General Sessions brings with him decades of experience as both a prosecutor and U.S. Senator. He is bound by an unparalleled commitment to the rule of law and is exactly the right person we need to restore trust and integrity at the Department of Justice.”
02.03.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in support of the Trump Administration’s decision to apply new sanctions on Iran: “I commend the Trump Administration for holding Iran accountable for its belligerent and destabilizing behavior. Iran’s recent test launch of a ballistic missile was yet another example in a long line of provocative actions that violate international law and threaten the United States and our allies. Iran must recognize that there is a new sheriff in town and it can no longer violate the terms of agreements it signed without fear of being held accountable.”
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement today in support of President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court: “Judge Neil Gorsuch is an outstanding choice to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia on our nation’s highest court. He has demonstrated an exceptional legal understanding and a clear loyalty and commitment to the U.S. Constitution. Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has received unprecedented bipartisan support and was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate in 2006 to serve on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Then-Senators Obama, Biden, Clinton and Schumer were all serving in the Senate at the time and raised no objections to Judge Gorsuch’s nomination. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to once again put politics aside and confirm this highly-qualified and universally-respected legal scholar to the U.S. Supreme Court.”
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), whose district includes NASA’s Johnson Space Center, announced today that he was reappointed by House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) to serve as the Chairman of the Space Subcommittee, which has legislative jurisdiction and oversight over NASA and U.S. space policy. “I am honored to continue serving as the chairman of the House Space Subcommittee in the 115th Congress,” said Chairman Babin. “There is still much work to be done to restore America’s human space flight program and I am excited to work with an Administration that believes in a robust U.S. space program. Our human space flight program is an important element in building a brighter future for the American people and making America great again.” “Chairman Babin has proven to be a knowledgeable and capable member of this Committee, and he is committed to ensuring the U.S. remains a world leader in space exploration,” said Chairman Smith. “I look forward to continuing to work with him to promote legislation that advances America’s space interests.”
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who has been a leading critic of America’s United Nations (UN)-led refugee resettlement program, issued the following statement today in support of President Trump’s executive order on extreme vetting: “I commend President Trump for delivering on his campaign pledge to put a common-sense pause on a broken refugee program and immigration system that has serious national security gaps and is in desperate need of repair. “By temporarily restricting entry into the United States from several nations that were established as terrorist hotspots by the Obama Administration, President Trump is doing exactly what he promised the American people he would do – and that’s put their safety, security and well-being first. “This is not a radical idea. In fact, polls show a majority of Americans support such a plan. It is also not a new idea. President Obama did the same thing in 2011 by suspending Iraqi refugee admissions for six months. The Trump Administration has simply stepped up the screening of those entering the U.S. from these seven countries, which were designated as terrorism hotspots by the Obama Administration. “As I have been saying for nearly two years, the refugee resettlement program poses a clear and present danger to the American people. We were told by President Obama’s own DHS, FBI and DNI Directors that U.S. intelligence officials cannot properly vet or screen refugees coming from Syria and other terrorist hot spots. We have seen the deadly consequences in Europe as ISIS has already successfully infiltrated its refugee population. Why repeat the same mistakes here? “As a compassionate Christian, I believe we can and should help displaced refugees by caring for them in safe zones near their own countries. In fact, for the cost of bringing one refugee into America, we can help at least twelve refugees in safe zones. “The President’s executive order will ensure our U.S. intelligence agencies have time to strengthen the vetting system and close this gaping hole in our national security. President Trump has my full support.”
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) joined his colleagues today in voting to pass the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7), legislation that extends and makes permanent the Hyde Amendment which prevents taxpayer dollars from being used to fund abortions through government programs. Rep. Babin voiced his strong support for H.R. 7 on the House floor during the bill’s debate. His remarks are as follows: “For the past 30 years, through the Hyde Amendment, the U.S. Congress has acted to prevent taxpayer money from being used to pay for abortions. The bipartisan Hyde Amendment has been an annual rider on appropriations bills. But Obamacare bypassed this abortion funding prohibition leading to the largest expansion of taxpayer funding of abortion in American history since Roe v. Wade. “That’s why we desperately need to pass H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, to permanently codify the Hyde Amendment and apply it across the entire federal government. This bill will also ensure that the prohibition is not subject to annual threats and it will close the massive loophole that was created by Obamacare. “Since 1976, the Hyde Amendment has saved the lives of over 2 million babies - roughly the same number of people that live in the city of Houston, Texas. For the sake of those 2 million people and the millions more that will be saved, we must permanently codify the Hyde Amendment’s pro-life protections. “Furthermore, as Obamacare presented the largest expansion of abortion since the Roe V. Wade Supreme Court case, we must ensure that the Hyde Amendment covers all areas of the federal government. This bill makes sure that taxpayer dollars are no longer used to subsidize abortions. H.R. 7 is an critical piece of legislation that is supported by nearly two-thirds of Americans who do not want the government to be in the business of killing unborn babies. “Congress must act to preserve the Hyde Amendment for posterity and to put an immediate end to the ongoing harm being done with taxpayer money. I strongly encourage my colleagues to vote for passage of this much-needed bill to end taxpayer funding of abortion once and for all.”
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) shared the following pictures and statement after attending the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump on Friday, January 20th, 2017: “It was with great excitement that I attended the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. Congratulations to President Trump, Vice President Pence and most importantly the American people on this remarkable achievement. I couldn’t be more excited about what lies ahead and what we can accomplish for the people of this great country. It was truly an honor to have a front row seat to history on this special day and I am looking forward to getting to work with our new President and his team to make America a stronger and more prosperous nation.”
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) voted today to pass a resolution (S. Con. Res. 3) to facilitate immediate action on the repeal of Obamacare. Earlier in the week, Rep. Babin also took to the House floor to give voice to the thousands of his constituents who continue to suffer under Obamacare. “Since the Democrats rammed Obamacare through Congress without a single Republican vote or allowing any amendments to be offered, American families have been punished year after year with skyrocketing premiums, excessive deductibles, disrupted care, lost doctors and fewer work hours,” said Rep. Babin. “Obamacare has failed miserably and the American people need to be rescued. Today, the House took an important first step to do just that by passing a resolution that paves the way for its immediate repeal and sets up a stable transition to a patient-centered health care system that allows Americans to choose their own health plan rather than one designed and directed by bureaucrats in Washington. The American people have voted for relief from this disastrous law and I look forward to working with President-elect Trump to restore health care freedom and provide Americans with access to quality, affordable care – not costly, government directed care.”
01.10.2017	“President-elect Donald Trump has announced that deporting the roughly 2 million criminal aliens in our country would be a top priority for his presidency – and this legislation is a critical component to any such effort.” – Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) Washington, DC – On the first day of the 115th Congress, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) reintroduced his Criminal Alien Deportation Enforcement Act (H.R. 82), a common-sense bill that will withhold foreign aid and travel visas from any country that refuses to take back one their citizens who has been criminally detained and ordered to be deported from the United States. Last Congress, the legislation (H.R. 5224) received over 50 co-sponsors, including one Democrat. Under President-elect Trump, the bill faces renewed interest as he has voiced his strong support for punishing countries that refuse to accept deportations. The President-elect states in his ten-point immigration plan that we need to “Ensure that other countries take their people back when we order them deported.” “There is absolutely no reason that criminal aliens should be released back onto America’s streets, yet that is exactly what is happening by the thousands each and every year because their countries of origin refuse to take them back,” said Rep. Babin. “My bill upholds the rule of law and holds these countries accountable by stripping their foreign aid and travel visas if they fail to cooperate. President-elect Donald Trump has announced that deporting the roughly 2 million criminal aliens in our country would be a top priority for his presidency – and this legislation is a critical component to any such effort.” According to a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee report, 86,288 illegal immigrants who committed 231,074 crimes were released by the Obama Administration since 2013. Among them was an illegal immigrant named Jean Jacques, whose native Haiti refused to accept him back after he served seventeen years for attempted murder. Within six months of his release from a U.S. prison, Jacques murdered Casey Chadwick, a 25 year-old young woman in Connecticut. Had Haiti been compelled to take Jacques back, Casey would be alive today. “For the sake of Casey and thousands of other Americans who have been victimized, it is time we start putting the safety of our citizens first and stop this revolving door that is allowing dangerous criminals who should be deported back onto our streets,” said Rep. Babin. Specifically, H.R. 82 would: Withhold foreign aid to uncooperative countries that refuse to take back their citizens who are criminal aliens; Suspend visas for countries that are deemed non-cooperative in repatriating their own citizens who are criminal aliens; Make it easier to track non-cooperative countries by mandating that the Department of Homeland Security submit to Congress a report every three months listing the uncooperative countries; and Provide the victims of crimes committed by criminal aliens standing in federal court to sue for deportation of such criminal aliens.
01.04.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) took to the House floor today to mourn the loss of two Texas Army National Guardsmen who lost their lives last week after their aircraft crashed into the water off the Bayport Cruise Terminal near La Porte, Texas. To watch the video, please click here. His remarks are as follows: “It is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor two young men who gave their lives in service to the State of Texas and the United States when their Apache helicopter crashed in Galveston Bay, Texas during a training mission last week in my Congressional District. My deepest sympathies go out to the families of Army Chief Warrant Officer 2 Lucas Lowe of Daisetta, Texas – a resident of the 36th Congressional District, which I represent – and Army Chief Warrant Officer 3 Dustin Mortenson of League City, Texas. “The heartbreaking loss of these two fine Texas Army National Guard pilots – assigned to the 1-149th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion, 36th Infantry Division – has been felt throughout our Southeast Texas community. Both men tragically leave behind a wife and family. Chief Warrant Officer 2 Lucas Lowe’s wife Kami was also pregnant with twins due next month in February. “As a former Texas Guardsman myself, my prayers remain with all those who have been impacted by this terrible tragedy. And as the U.S. Congressmen for District 36, it is my commitment and duty to the families to see that they get the support they need during this very difficult time. Please keep these families in your thoughts and your prayers. May God bless these two soldiers, their families and all who serve their country.”
01.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, upon being sworn into the 115th Congress, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) sent a letter to President-elect Donald J. Trump highlighting shared policy solutions to protect American citizens from our reckless United Nations-led refugee program and weak immigration policies. “I want to bring to your attention three bills I have championed in the 114th Congress and am reintroducing today that deal with the most solemn and important duty of the federal government: protection of the homeland and our people,” the letter states. “While these bills enjoyed solid support from many of my colleagues and, if public polling is to be believed, a strong majority of the American people, they unfortunately did not receive a committee hearing or a vote in the House of Representatives. I am hopeful that with your help and support, as well as the mandate represented by your election victory, that will not be the case in the 115th Congress.” The letter can be read here and below: January 3, 2017 President-elect Donald J. Trump Trump Tower 721 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10022 Dear Mr. President-elect: Please accept my most heartfelt and sincere congratulations on your historic victory in the November election. As a strong and vocal supporter of your campaign throughout the election cycle, I could not be more proud to call you our next Commander-in-Chief. As you have said many times, this was not just a victory for your campaign, but for the entire movement which you have led as a candidate, the nominee of our party, and soon as the next President of the United States. The American People elected you to make our country safe, strong and great again, and I pledge my support to turn your agenda into real results. To that end, I want to bring to your attention three bills I have championed in the 114th Congress and am reintroducing today that deal with the most solemn and important duty of the federal government: protection of the homeland and our people. While these bills enjoyed solid support from many of my colleagues and, if public polling is to be believed, a strong majority of the American people, they unfortunately did not receive a committee hearing or a vote in the House of Representatives. I am hopeful that with your help and support, as well as the mandate represented by your election victory, that will not be the case in the 115th Congress. I have prepared a summary of these bills and why I believe they are a perfect fit for your agenda. Also, enclosed with this letter is a copy of these bills and their cosponsors, as well as various articles and letters of support. REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT REFORM H.R. 3314 – Refugee Resettlement National Security Act of 2015 Introduced July 30, 2015 | 89 Cosponsors H.R. 3314 institutes a total and complete shutdown of the admission of refugees into the United States, until Congress passes a joint resolution giving the appropriate federal agencies the authority to resume those admissions. The bill also requires a full audit by the Government Accountability Office of the social welfare costs to federal, state and local governments of refugees who are relocated into American communities. The Congress would also have conducted its own review of the safety and national security concerns. H.R. 5816 - Resettlement Accountability National Security Prioritization Act of 2016 Introduced July 30, 2015 | 49 Cosponsors H.R. 5816 prohibits the admission of prospective immigrants from the terrorist hot spots of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, or Yemen (or for “stateless” peoples who have spent significant time in these countries) into the United States for four years, unless Congress passes a joint resolution giving the Department of Homeland Security authority to admit them. CRIMINAL ALIEN DEPORTATIONS H.R. 5224 - Criminal Alien Deportation Enforcement Act of 2016 Introduced May 30, 2016 | 52 Cosponsors (bipartisan support) H.R. 5224 prohibits financial assistance to a foreign country that refuses or unreasonably delays the acceptance of one of their citizens who has been ordered to be deported from the United States. One of your predecessors, a great man named Ronald Reagan famously said, “there is no limit to the amount of good you can do if you don't care who gets the credit.” I am fully committed to working with the leadership of the House and Senate, the relevant committees of jurisdiction, as well as your team at the White House to craft legislation you can sign into law that will address these and other critical national security challenges. But I would also note that President Reagan encouraged us to work under a banner of “no pale pastels, but bold colors which make it unmistakably clear where we stand on all of the issues troubling the people.” On this issue, Mr. President-elect, I believe the American People want and expect us to lead boldly and not pass watered down half-measures that only trim around the edges of these great threats to our society and way of life. While there are many important steps you can take unilaterally as President to address the porous borders, failed immigration policies and dangerous refugee program, I believe it is critically important that we also enact into law as many of these reforms as possible to protect these important changes from the whims of future Presidents. It is a great honor to be the Congressman for the 36th District of Texas, but it is second to being a citizen and a father and grandfather who wants you to succeed in keeping my family and our country safe. I am blessed with the opportunity to help you achieve those goals in the House of Representatives, and I look forward to working with you every step of the way. God Bless America. Sincerely, Brian Babin Member of Congress (TX-36)
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives last week unanimously approved the To Research, Evaluate, Assess, and Treat Astronauts Act (H.R. 6076), or “TREAT” Astronauts Act. The bill, sponsored by Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-TX), establishes a spaceflight occupational healthcare program for former American astronauts. Chairman Babin’s full statement on the TREAT Act can be viewed here. A summary of the bill can be found here. “I am proud to say that I represent a great number of these astronauts who call the Houston area home,” said Space Subcommittee Chairman Babin. “As a nation we have obligations to those we put in harm’s way. As a Congress, we have a responsibility to provide for the treatment of conditions caused by federal service. As a health care professional and as their representative, you could say it is my duty to make sure these folks are taken care of properly. This is why I have sponsored H.R. 6076, the “TREAT Astronauts Act,” a common sense, fiscally responsible, bipartisan bill that makes sure our brave men and woman that venture into space receive support for medical issues associated with their service.” The TREAT Astronauts Act authorizes NASA to provide former astronauts medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment of psychological and medical conditions associated with their space flight. It builds upon existing NASA research authorities and NASA’s Lifetime Surveillance of Astronaut Health program. “In an age when spaceflight has come to seem almost routine, it is easy to overlook how dangerous it is and how little we know about its long-term health effects. H.R. 6076, the “TREAT Astronauts Act,” ensures that our courageous men and women who venture into space receive support for medical issues associated with their service,” said House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX). “I thank Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin for introducing this legislation and for his persistence in getting us to the point of passage.” Leaders in Spaceflight Medicine Praise the TREAT Act: “I am writing to express my sincere thanks to Chairman Babin for his leadership and instrumental support of the TREAT Astronaut Act. This important legislation will provide lifelong support for medical issues that arise as a result of astronauts' service. Additionally, it will help protect future generations of American space explorers who will continue to press the boundaries of exploration and human performance. Moreover, the lessons learned and the medical technologies developed will continue to have tremendous applications back here on earth, notably remote medical care, telemedicine and gerontology. As a veteran astronaut, physician, technology entrepreneur and advisor to various NASA and National Academies boards, I consider this bill critical to our nation's future in space.” Scott Parazynski, MD STS-66, 86, 95, 100, 120 CEO, Fluidity Technologies “The TREAT Astronaut Act is an important bill aligned with our Nation’s preeminence in human space exploration and value placed on the health and safety of United States former astronauts and payload specialists. The Act recognizes the responsibility to comprehensively care for our spacefaring men and women who have bravely served our country. It will also reap benefits in new knowledge and understanding of long-term biomedical risks associated with spaceflight, and inform strategies to mitigate those risks with potential applications to enhance healthcare on Earth.” Jeffrey P. Sutton, M.D., Ph.D. CEO, National Space Biomedical Research Institute “Many thanks to Chairman Babin for his support of what I believe is an important issue for NASA and the nation, the safety and health of America’s Astronauts. Since my retirement from the Astronaut Office, I have been an advocate and supporter of the need to provide healthcare for this group of Americans who risk their lives to explore space. I have been involved in driving this initiative as a member of the NASA Medical Policies Board, National Academy of Medicine Health Board and others during my tenue as an Astronaut. As a physician, the TREAT Astronauts Act is critical.” Bernard A. Harris, Jr., MD, MBA CEO & Managing Director Vesalius Ventures
11.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) was presented with the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” and an “A” rating from National Taxpayers Union (NTU) for his strong voting record on behalf of lower taxes, limited government, and economic freedom. “It is an honor to be presented with this important award as our nation faces very serious financial challenges,” said Rep. Babin. “Given that our children and grandchildren will have to pay back everything that this generation borrows, we must give the greatest scrutiny to each and every dollar that is spent. I have consistently opposed wasteful government spending while fighting for reforms that shrink the size and scope of the federal government.” Every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy is analyzed by NTU and the “Taxpayer Score” is based on how each Member of Congress has stood up for controlling federal spending, taxes, debt and regulations. In 2015, 141 Senate and 267 House votes were included in NTU’s scorecard. Only 14 Senate and 43 House Members won the award for that year. “Winning the Taxpayers’ Friend Award is no easy feat. It takes a daily commitment to cast principled votes that put the Americans who pay government’s bills first,” proclaimed Pete Sepp, President of NTU. “Congressman Babin has proven he has what it takes to help make Washington work for taxpayers again. If every Member of Congress had voted as conscientiously as Congressman Babin did last year, taxpayers could have looked forward to a much more prosperous future.” The NTU annual rating has been referred to as the gold standard for fiscal scorecards, since it encompasses all votes that affect taxpayers. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have praised the consistent standard and integrity that the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” represents, and the rating continues to serve as a benchmark for fiscal accountability.
11.15.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) made the following remarks today on the House floor congratulating President-elect Donald Trump, Vice President-elect Mike Pence and the American people on a historic victory at the ballot box: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate President-elect Donald Trump, Vice President-elect Mike Pence – but most importantly – the American people on a historic victory at the ballot box. Make no mistake; this election was a resounding rejection of the status-quo in Washington – a revolution at the ballot box. “The American people are sick and tired of open borders, runaway federal agencies, unconstitutional executive orders, a weakened foreign policy, a sluggish economy and a federal government that simply no longer listens to them. Now – under President-elect Trump and a Republican Congress – we have the opportunity to change that and achieve bold, new steps that will put America on a path to a more secure and prosperous country. “I look forward to working closely with the Trump-Pence Administration to help advance these goals and a conservative agenda that rebuilds our military, secures our border, ends the failed Obamacare experiment, creates jobs and protects the unborn. Mr. Speaker, the American people have spoken loud and clear – and it’s now time we turn this historic moment into action.”
10.28.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to the FBI’s announcement that it has reopened its investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email server: “The FBI’s decision to reopen its investigation into Secretary Clinton raises serious questions about what was discovered in these emails and whether there was an explicit intent to violate the law. We already know that Hillary Clinton’s callous disregard for national security procedures through the use of her unsecured, private email server put America at risk. American soldiers have gone to jail for doing much less than what Secretary Clinton has done. We are a nation of laws and must all be held to the same standard. I am hopeful that the FBI will carry out a full, thorough and transparent investigation in a timely manner. There is simply too much at stake.”
10.25.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) joined House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) and 23 of his colleagues today in sending a letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter requesting that the Pentagon halt all attempts to reclaim decade-old reenlistment bonuses paid to 10,000 Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans in California after audits revealed overpayments by the California National Guard. "We are dismayed that our men and women who answered their country's call to duty are now being forced to repay what was promised to them in exchange for their honorable service," the letter states. "Some have faced the threat of wage garnishments and tax liens if they refuse. This is no way to treat those who have fulfilled their commitments to our country. They should be held harmless in light of the fraud that was perpetrated upon them by overzealous recruiters." The full letter can be read here and below: October 25, 2016 The Honorable Ashton B. Carter U.S. Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Carter: We write to you with grave concern regarding Department of Defense efforts to recover decade-old reenlistment bonuses paid to thousands of California Army National Guard soldiers. We are dismayed that our men and women who answered their country’s call to duty are now being forced to repay what was promised to them in exchange for their honorable service. Some have faced the threat of wage garnishments and tax liens if they refuse. This is no way to treat those who have fulfilled their commitments to their country. They should be held harmless in light of the fraud that was perpetrated upon them by overzealous recruiters. On October 22, 2016, the Los Angeles Times reported that nearly 10,000 soldiers in the California National Guard have been ordered to repay enlistment bonuses of $15,000 or more. Many of these individuals served multiple combat tours. Wounded Iraq and Afghanistan veteran and former Army Captain Christopher Van Meter was asked to repay a $25,000 reenlistment bonus. Army Sergeant Robert Richmond, who suffered permanent injuries in Iraq due to a roadside bomb attack, was asked to repay his $15,000 reenlistment bonus. These are just two examples of the burden that our brave men and Women are being asked to bear. It is unjust and this wrong must be righted. We request that further attempts to retrieve outstanding debt be halted. We are also requesting a comprehensive briefing by the Department of Defense and the National Guard Bureau, specifically focused on what authorities the Department of Defense currently possesses to waive the repayment of these debts as well as a full accounting as to the scope of this issue nation-wide. We look forward to an immediate response. Thank you for your time and attention to this critical issue.
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday approved the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 (H.R. 5303), legislation that included two amendments offered by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) to improve the navigation and maintenance of the Houston Ship Channel. The WRDA bill, which passed the House by a strong bipartisan vote of 399 to 25, addresses the needs of America’s harbors, locks, dams, flood protection, and other water resources infrastructure by authorizing U.S. Army Corps of Engineers activities. The bill also included additional provisions that Rep. Babin pushed to provide the Corps and local officials with maximum flexibility to carry out navigation safety activities (Section 104). “The Greater Houston area is the energy production and chemical manufacturing capital of the world, and the Port of Houston's ability to ship those goods is directly responsible for the billions of dollars in economic activity and the hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs it creates in Texas and across the country,” said Rep. Babin. “These amendments apply common sense principles that will allow the Corps to focus on its navigation safety and harbor maintenance responsibilities – rather than imposing costly regulations on projects and areas where the local officials and private businesses can take care of things better on their own.” Chairman of the Port of Houston Authority, Janiece Longoria, praised Rep. Babin’s work in a statement saying, “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Babin added crucial amendments to the House WRDA bill that will remove duplicative procedures and unnecessary hurdles in the federal process of maintaining and improving the Houston Ship Channel.” Background: WRDA 2016 contains no earmarks, maintains the strong bipartisan reforms included in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and adheres to the new transparent process established in that law for congressional review of proposed Corps of Engineers water resources development activities. Following the oversight and review process set forth in the 2014 law, WRDA 2016 authorizes infrastructure improvements that have been proposed at the local level, reviewed by the Corps according to strict congressionally established criteria, and submitted to Congress for consideration.
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) issued the following statement today regarding his vote against the passage of legislation that would fund the federal government through December 9, 2016: “I believe this was a missed opportunity – and I am deeply disappointed that this legislation failed to include much-needed and widely supported checks on the President and his foolish plans to relinquish U.S. leadership over the Internet and bring in more poorly-vetted Syrian refugees into America. My constituents sent me to Washington to stand up for them against the status-quo and the dangerous policies of this Administration. Unfortunately, this bill falls short in that endeavor. Seventy percent of the American people believe the United States is on the wrong track and it’s time we do more to change that.” NOTE: Rep. Babin is an original cosponsor of a substitute conservative Continuing Resolution (CR), H.J. RES. 99, that would have responsibly funded the federal government through February 2017 while also blocking President Obama’s unconstitutional and reckless policies and programs.
09.15.2016	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Wednesday voted to pass the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (H.R. 5620), legislation he cosponsored to help facilitate the removal of senior employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) who have failed to effectively serve our veterans. The bipartisan bill, which now awaits further consideration by the U.S. Senate, will also strengthen performance standards and accountability measures for VA employees, provide enhanced whistleblower protections for those who report misconduct and create a process to recoup bonuses or awards paid to certain employees. “We had a veterans’ town hall meeting in Woodville, Texas three weeks ago and I heard firsthand from over dozens of our veterans about the specific problems they are having with VA medical care, compensation and simply not getting answers to their questions,” said Rep. Babin. “We also heard from VA officials who encouraged veterans to file complaints with exact details on specific employees who are failing to serve with duty and respect. It was clear to me that they wanted to fire bad employees too – and our bill will help them in that process.” "As a veteran myself and the father of a decorated Navy SEAL, I am committed to seeing that our nation’s heroes receive the respect and treatment they have earned and deserve. Too many of our veterans are being failed by the VA. While most VA employees are trying to do their best, far too many of them should be fired. "This week the House took another important step in our efforts to hold the VA accountable by passing legislation to make it easier to fire VA employees who are failing to properly care for our veterans. I was pleased that we received a veto-proof majority 310 votes for our bill. I strongly encourage the Senate to quickly follow suit and send this bipartisan bill to the President’s desk.”
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) was joined by 37 of his colleagues today in sending a letter to Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McCarthy and Appropriations Chairman Rogers asking that provisions be included in the upcoming Continuing Resolution legislation that would put in place a moratorium on refugees coming from terrorist hotbeds in Syria, the Middle East, and North Africa until appropriate screening procedures are put in place and Congress is given a full accounting of the costs of this program. “There is no duty of the federal government more important than ensuring the protection of the American people,” the letter states. “We believe it is prudent and in the best interest of the American people that language be included in the upcoming FY 2017 Continuing Resolution to restore Congressional oversight and authority over the refugee program. We cannot allow the refugee program to serve as a Trojan Horse threat to American national security. Our sworn duty is first and foremost to the safety and security of the American people.” The letter can be read here and below: Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McCarthy and Chairman Rogers, We are writing to express our concerns about the continuing threat of terrorism and to urge that the Congress exercise greater oversight and authority over the refugee resettlement programs as we consider the FY2017 Continuing Resolution legislation. In the aftermath of the attacks by radical Islamist jihadists in Paris, San Bernardino, Brussels, Nice, Germany, Istanbul and Orlando, the American people have become increasingly wary of the massive refugee influx from terrorist hot spots, the inability to conduct proper security screening of these individuals and the serious national security concerns this raises for the American people. Furthermore, the President’s rush to meet an arbitrary number of 10,000 Syrian refugee admissions in FY 2016, in spite of security concerns raised by top Administration national security officials, indicates that national security concerns are being set aside in order to meet arbitrary policy goals. The Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security have each stated that they cannot properly screen refugees coming from Syria and the surrounding regions for possible threats to our national security. There is no duty of the federal government more important than ensuring the protection of the American people. We believe that we would fall short of that duty if the Congress fails to exercise greater authority over the Administration’s refugee resettlement program. We see this as an important national security concern and ask that this concern be addressed in the upcoming negotiations over funding in the FY 2017 Continuing Resolution. We believe it is prudent and in the best interest of the American people that language be included in the upcoming FY 2017 Continuing Resolution to restore Congressional oversight and authority over the refugee program. Specifically we would ask that you consider putting language in the continuing resolution that would: 1. Prevent federal funds from being used to admit to the United States refugees from Syria, the Middle East and North Africa until the following conditions are met: a. Federal Immigration, law enforcement and national security agencies put in place processes to ensure that refugee and related programs are not able to be co-opted by would be terrorists; b. That such process and programs are provided to the Congress in both classified and public formats; c. That a longer-term monitoring process be put into place for those admitted to the U.S. as refugees; and d. That no federal funds may be used for refugee travel to the U.S. or any U.S. resettlement of refugees from this troubled region until Congress has passed by joint resolution a bill that specifically approves funding for such purposes. 2. Permit U.S. funds to continue to be used to provide for the safety of refugees overseas, including housing, food and medical aid. ISIS has repeatedly declared that they would infiltrate the refugee community that is leaving the Middle East and flooding into Europe. The attacks across Europe over the past year appear to be a fulfillment of that threat. We cannot allow the refugee program to serve as a Trojan Horse threat to American national security. Our sworn duty is first and foremost to the safety and security of the American people. We look forward to working with you to make this a priority in the Continuing Resolution.
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who is organizing support for a new effort in Congress to put a moratorium on refugees coming from terrorist hotbeds of Syria, the Middle East, and North Africa in the upcoming spending bill, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s announcement that he plans to raise the number of refugees admitted to the U.S. to 110,000 and bring in a “significantly higher” number of Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year: “By doubling down and defying warnings from his own security experts, the President is further jeopardizing the security and well-being of each and every person in the United States. As someone who has been working tirelessly to stop this madness for over a year, I am deeply alarmed and troubled by this latest announcement and the reckless expansion of America’s broken U.N.-led refugee resettlement program. “As the world has changed and our national security threats have grown, it is commonsense to adjust to these evolving threats. It is past due that we reevaluate our refugee program. We can do humanitarian relief for these folks close to their home and take affirmative steps so that they can return to their homelands. "As elected officials we have a sworn duty to act in the best interests of the American people – not the United Nations. The upcoming spending bill presents Congress with a new opportunity to reassert its authority over the refugee program and fix this gaping hole in our national security. Since this refugee law was enacted in the 1980s by Senator Ted Kennedy, Congress has gradually ceded its authority to the President, and with national security and billions of dollars in deficit spending on the line, it is time for Congress to take back oversight of this program.” In July 2015, Rep. Babin introduced the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314), which is now supported by 85 of his colleagues, to pause the refugee resettlement program until Congress (1) completes a full national security review to make sure terrorists are not being let into the U.S. and (2) gets a full accounting of the costs of the refugee program to federal, state and local taxpayers.
09.06.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today issued the following statement on the passing of conservative icon and founder of the Eagle Forum Phyllis Schlafly: “Phyllis Schlafly was a courageous and determined leader who spent her entire adult life fighting for America and our traditional family values. While we have lost a powerful voice for the American people, her tremendous pride in America and passion for the conservative movement will continue to inspire future conservative leaders for generations to come. My thoughts and prayers go out to her family during this difficult time.”
09.01.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), along with 50 of his colleagues, sent a letter this week to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch demanding that a special prosecutor be appointed to investigate the Clinton Foundation for “pay to play” tactics that allowed its donors special access and influence over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The letter, which was spearheaded by U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-4), points out that a recent report by the Associated Press has revealed that a majority of the people who Hillary Clinton met with as Secretary of State were donors to the Clinton Foundation. “All of this makes it very unclear where the State Department ended and where the Clinton Foundation began,” the letter states. “Americans have by and large lost faith in their government and rightfully so. The facts as they have been reported surrounding the Clinton Foundation warrant an investigation that is beyond reproach and beyond any appearance of political favoritism. Appointing a special counsel is a necessary step at this juncture.” The letter can be read here and below: Dear Attorney General Lynch: We request you take immediate steps to appoint a special counsel, pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.1 to investigate the Clinton Foundation and alleged “pay to play” tactics where donors to the Clinton Foundation were able to obtain inappropriate access to and influence over then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Under Department of Justice regulations, you have the grounds to appoint a special counsel when it is determined “that criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted” and that the investigation of that person or matter “by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances.” We strongly believe that these criteria are met. Consider: A recent report by the Associated Press indicates that “At least 85 of 154 people from private interests who met or had phone conversations scheduled with Clinton while she led the State Department donated to her family charity or pledged commitments to its international programs.” Combined, it is believed these donors contributed as much as $156 million, with 50 giving at least $100,000 and 20 giving over $1 million. The report goes on to say “the frequency of the overlaps shows the intermingling of access and donations, and fuels perceptions that giving foundation money was a price of admission for face time with Clinton.” Further casting a shadow of doubt over this arrangement is the recent announcement by the Clinton Foundation that it will stop accepting donations from foreign governments if Hillary Clinton is elected President of the United States. This begs the obvious question about why an inappropriately cozy relationship between the Clinton Foundation and its donors with the President of the United States is deemed unethical, but the same relationship between the Secretary of State and candidate for president were not. All of this makes it very unclear where the State Department ended and where the Clinton Foundation began. Official business of the United States government, the State Department most certainly included, should be conducted in a manner that prioritizes the best interests of the American people, not the special needs of the well-connected donors to a largely unaccountable foundation. Americans have by and large lost faith in their government and rightfully so. The facts as they have been reported surrounding the Clinton Foundation warrant an investigation that is beyond reproach and beyond any appearance of political favoritism. Appointing a special counsel is a necessary step at this juncture.
08.16.2016	Houston, TX – On Thursday, August 11th, during a meeting with Houston space industry leaders, including members of the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership (BAHEP), U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) announced the formation of the Texas Space Congressional Caucus (TSCC) to help advocate and protect the interests of NASA’s Johnson Space Center (JSC) and the space industry across Texas. Rep. Babin meets with Houston space industry leaders. “As Chairman of the House Space Subcommittee, I am excited to announce the creation of the Texas Space Congressional Caucus, which will serve as a strong, proactive and bipartisan voice in support of Johnson Space Center and our local space industry,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “The entire Texas Delegation shares a common goal in promoting the development of human space flight and as a unified voice we can more effectively advocate for regional and state interests at the federal level.” “For years the Texas delegation has informally worked together to support Johnson Space Center and the Texas space industry,” said Rep. John Culberson who will serve as the co-chair of the caucus. “Recently, Representative Babin and I formed the Texas Space Caucus to increase collaboration and encourage involvement by other Texas members. As we face a change in administrations, the Texas Space Caucus hopes to aid in communication and support our local space industry so that it continues to be a leader in space exploration.” The bipartisan coalition was also formed with the support of Houston-area Congressmen Gene Green (TX-29), and Al Green (TX-9). “For decades, Texas’ hard working and talented men and women and the United States government have invested careers and billions of dollars into exploring the universe,” said Rep. Gene Green. “Our bipartisan caucus will build upon these investments and ensure that Texas remains a vibrant centerpiece of America’s continued leadership in space exploration.” “I look forward to continuing to collaborate with my colleagues in the Texas delegation to support our Johnson Space Center,” said Rep. Al Green. “We must all work together to ensure that our local space industry receives the proper support, such that it remains at the forefront of space exploration.” Space industry and business leaders who attended the meeting strongly applauded the congressional caucus. “I highly commend Congressman Babin for taking the initiative with the strong support of his colleagues from the region, to establish the Texas Space Congressional Caucus,” said Bob Mitchell, President of the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership. “The bipartisan Caucus will serve to make NASA JSC and the work of the Texas space industry a legislative priority. This is critical if Texas and the Johnson Space Center are to maintain their lead in human space exploration.” “I am excited to hear of the effort announced at the meeting. As a small business in the area, it is nice to know that our federal representatives are here to help us and coordinating efforts that will benefit the space activities in Texas,” commented Dr. Jared Squire, senior vice president of research for Ad Astra Rocket Company.
08.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), along with U.S. Sens. John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX) and every Republican Member of the Texas congressional delegation, sent a letter today to President Obama demanding answers about the hundreds of millions of dollars in unobligated Zika prevention funding the Administration has reportedly not allocated yet. The delegation letter also asks how much funding the Administration plans to set aside specifically for anti-Zika efforts in Texas. In June, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a $1.1 billion bipartisan, compromise bill funding Zika prevention efforts, which was blocked twice by Democrats in the U.S. Senate. “Many news outlets are now reporting that nearly $400 million of this funding remains unspent. In other words, your Administration has not used all available tools to protect our constituents and the American People from the threat of the Zika virus,” the Texas Republican delegation wrote. “In addition to our request that your Administration take increased measures to combat the Zika virus using existing available funds, we hope that you will join us in calling on Members of Congress to stop the filibuster of additional funding for Zika prevention and response measures.” The letter was signed by U.S. Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn; U.S. Reps. Brian Babin, Kevin Brady, Michael Burgess, John Carter, Michael Conaway, John Culberson, Blake Farenthold, Bill Flores, Louie Gohmert, Kay Granger, Jeb Hensarling, Will Hurd, Sam Johnson, Kenny Marchant, Michael McCaul, Randy Neugebauer, Pete Olson, Ted Poe, John Ratcliffe, Pete Sessions, Lamar Smith, Mac Thornberry, Randy Weber, and Roger Williams. The letter can be read here and below: August 5, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama, We write to express serious concerns regarding your Administration’s failure to allocate nearly $600 million in available funding for Zika response efforts. As you know, the Zika virus is expected to have a significant impact on Texas given its gulf coast location, warm climate, and recent flooding. For these reasons, we hope that your Administration will increase its efforts to combat the Zika virus in Texas with the resources already available. On April 6, 2016, your Administration used existing legal authorities to repurpose $589 million of available funds for Zika response activities. However, many news outlets are now reporting that nearly $400 million of this funding remains unspent. In other words, your Administration has not used all available tools to protect our constituents and the American People from the threat of the Zika virus. Given your Deputy Press Secretary’s recent comments that “the keys here are sitting with Congress, and they have to turn them to release more federal funding,” as well as your past comments that “the money is stuck in Congress,” we are concerned that you and your Administration are attempting to give a false impression and shift the blame for failed leadership in combatting the Zika virus. For this reason, we ask that you provide prompt answers to the following questions: 1. To date, how much of the $589 million reprogrammed for Zika response efforts remains available? 2. What amounts have been allocated, to what agencies, and for what purposes? 3. How much has been distributed to states or localities through grants or other means, and for what purposes? 4. How much of this funding does your Administration plan to spend for Zika prevention and response efforts in the State of Texas? 5. What is the timeframe for distributing remaining available funds? 6. How much remains unobligated from the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Ebola Economic Support Funds (ESF)? Despite the fact that your Administration has failed to deploy the $589 million in existing available Zika response funds, Congress has made significant efforts to supplement these resources. On June 23rd, the House of Representatives passed a conference report which included an additional $1.1 billion for Zika prevention and response efforts, including the development of a vaccine and mosquito control efforts. Unfortunately, a minority of Senators have repeatedly filibustered this legislation in an attempt to play politics and curry favor with special interest groups. In addition to our request that your Administration take increased measures to combat the Zika virus using existing available funds, we hope that you will join us in calling on Members of Congress to stop the filibuster of additional funding for Zika prevention and response measures.
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor on Wednesday in support of the Conscience Protection Act, legislation that passed the House to help ensure medical providers and religious institutions are not forced to participate in abortion services. To watch the video, click here. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, this nation was founded by those seeking to escape the coercive forces of governments across Europe. This basic freedom is under assault today as radical advocates for abortion are using the coercive forces of federal, state and local governments to compel pro-life individuals, businesses and health care providers to act against their deeply held religious convictions in order to keep a job, hold a medical license, or operate a hospital, clinic or health insurance plan. “No one should be forced to violate their deeply held convictions against taking innocent life. Yet, the Obama Administration has refused to enforce the current conscience law; most recently in California. With passage of our bill, pro-life Americans will no longer be forced to appeal the Administration for relief. This bill enables Americans to file suit in court and end coercion. I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this very important legislation so that the rights of pro-life Americans are restored.”
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – On Monday, July 11th, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2016 (H.R. 636), which included an important amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) to set strict new guidelines for the operation of drones near chemical plants and oil refineries. The bipartisan legislation will now be passed by the U.S. Senate and signed by the President. “As the representative of the 36th Congressional District of Texas, which is home to more petrochemical and refining facilities than any other district in the country, I was pleased to have helped secure this much-needed provision and put it on the path to becoming law,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “This carefully crafted language will ensure both the protection of our oil and gas facilities and their employees from unauthorized drone activity while also respecting the growing business of public and commercial drone use throughout the United States.” “We thank Congressman Babin for his tireless leadership on safety and for including a provision in the Senate's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill that will address the troubling gap in current policies regarding the safe operation of drones around chemical facilities,” said Cal Dooley, President and CEO of the American Chemistry Council. “This vital amendment will help protect communities and safeguard chemical facilities, which play a vital role in manufacturing products that are important to the everyday health and well-being of our nation.”
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) took to the House floor today to speak out against the FBI’s decision not to prosecute former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, our nation’s top law enforcement officials took a dangerous turn last week when they essentially rewrote the law for the well-connected and privileged. This should be deeply troubling to ordinary Americans – both on the left and the right. For those of us who work hard every day, play by the rules, and live by the law, when we cross the line -- it is the law that holds us accountable. “That standard of law does not seem to apply to the Clintons. John Adams warned during the forming of our Constitution that we must be a nation of laws—not of men. Undermining this founding principle for the privileged not only demonstrates poor judgment, it further erodes our trust in the institutions of government. And so it is left for us to now ask whether what we have come to is a government of laws or a government of the rich and powerful. Do we have a Department of Justice or a department of ‘just us’? “FBI Director, James Comey, testified before Congress to the many laws that former Secretary Of State Clinton broke, acknowledging “extreme carelessness” while denying “gross negligence,” which by definition are one in the same. Therefore, the choice not to apply the law equally to Hillary Clinton is not only a major blow to public confidence in the rule of law and equal treatment under the law; it also suggests that the rule of law has become nothing more than a word game. It confirms everything that we hate about the current state of politics. The FBI basically just wasted millions of dollars to confirm that everything Secretary Clinton has been telling the American people is a bunch of lies and it does not matter. “However, it has mattered to far less powerful Americans in similar circumstances who have had their careers and lives destroyed. Public servants and military service members who were not in positions to hold private meetings with the Attorney General -- as Mrs. Clinton’s husband did just days before the decision -- have been jailed, fined and lost their jobs and security clearances. “We may never know how much damage was caused by Clinton’s callous disregard for the law and our national security secrets. Were informants killed, lost, or compromised due to her negligence? Do foreign intelligence services retain the tens of thousands of emails from her private, unsecured servers that can now be used against the United States or against her to the detriment of the United States? We have a duty to find out.”
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the horrific police shooting in Dallas, Texas: “I'm heartbroken over the senseless murders of these five Dallas police officers. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families and all those who have been injured. As Texans, we mourn the loss of these fallen heroes and offer our prayers to the people of Dallas and their law enforcement community. There must be swift and stern punishment for those who helped carry out this unthinkable crime. The people of Texas will not stand for this.”
07.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to FBI Director James Comey’s decision that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton should not be prosecuted for her "extremely careless" mishandling of classified information: “We are at a dangerous place as a nation when the nation’s top law enforcement officials essentially rewrite the law for the connected and privileged. The decision not to prosecute Hillary Clinton for violating the law follows on the heels of very questionable private meetings that the Attorney General had with President Obama and former President Bill Clinton. The FBI Director stated clearly that Clinton broke the law by being 'extremely careless' in handling the most secret of national security information, but he has decided to create a second test that in order to be prosecuted it must be proven that she did so with intent to harm the United States. “Once again we have a new standard for the powerful and connected – the very thing our nation’s founders warned us against. This is another outrageous and dangerous abuse of power, which undermines the rule of law. We may never know how much damage was caused by Clinton’s callous disregard for the law and our national security secrets. Were informants lost, compromised or killed due to her negligence? Do foreign intelligence services retain the tens of thousands of emails from her private unsecured server that can now be used against the United States? We have a duty to find out. Perhaps we should ask the Russians and Chinese to turn over the emails she deleted.”
06.30.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the Obama Administration’s new policy to allow transgender individuals to openly serve in the military: “This is yet another needless distraction by this President that puts his personal liberal social agenda ahead of military preparedness and training. The military should not be used as a vehicle for the Obama Administration’s social experiments. Our troops and their military leaders already have enough challenges on their plate. This Administration’s focus should be on ensuring our military has the necessary tools and resources it needs to defeat our enemies and keep Americans safe—not liberal social engineering that only harms our already neglected military.”
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to block the President’s executive amnesty actions: “Today’s decision is a major victory for the American people, the rule of law and the protection of the U.S. Constitution. I’ve been clear from the start that President Obama’s decision to unilaterally rewrite immigration law and grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants is in clear violation of the U.S. Constitution – and it makes a mockery of our laws and the balance of powers. The United States is a nation of immigrants, but we are a nation of laws. I applaud the Supreme Court for restoring the rule of law and halting this unconstitutional and unlawful power grab by the President.”
06.13.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the Orlando terrorist attack: “The Orlando terrorist attack is yet another sobering reminder that our nation is under attack from Islamic Jihadists. This follows similar terrorist attacks in San Bernardino, Chattanooga, Ft. Hood and Boston. As our hearts and prayers go out to those who lost loved ones, it is critical that we begin to take the necessary actions to protect the American people from such evil. I’m disappointed that President Obama once again suggested gun control as the solution, because that simply diverts attention from the underlying problem which is the ideology that motivates Islamic Jihadist. “For nearly a year, I have been leading the charge in Congress to halt our refugee program and have secured the support of 85 of my colleagues. With nearly 900 ISIS-related investigations ongoing across America, it is long overdue that we push the stop button on the failed refugee resettlement program. Clearly, this program is failing the American people and putting the safety and security of the American people at greater risk. It’s time we put political correctness aside and end the President's rush to admit 10,000 poorly screened Syrian refugees before he leaves office.”
06.10.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Wednesday, June 8th, voted to pass the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016 (H.R. 4775), legislation that he cosponsored to allow states the opportunity to pursue cost-effective and practical ways to implement the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s ozone standards. “As the representative of the 36th District of Texas, which has more petrochemical facilities than any other district in the country, I understand the unique impact and extreme difficulties that the EPA’s new ozone regulations will impose on our jobs and economy in Southeast Texas,” said Rep. Babin. “The EPA’s proposed regulations are unnecessary, unworkable and will destroy thousands of American jobs – with few areas feeling the impact more than Southeast Texas. In fact, Yellowstone National Park, which has no industry, cannot even comply with these extreme regulations. Our bipartisan legislation allows states to address ozone levels through an open, transparent and fair process that improves air quality without adding job killing and unachievable regulations.”
06.03.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today announced the successful appointments of seven high school students from the 36th District of Texas whom he nominated earlier this year to attend U.S. service academies. “One of the distinct honors of serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate exceptional young men and women to be considered for appointment to our nation’s service academies,” said Rep. Babin. “I couldn’t be more impressed and excited for these seven students as they take on this opportunity of a lifetime. As the father of a U.S. Naval Academy graduate, I understand the unique opportunities presented to those who attend a service academy. I wish them all the best as they seek to further their education and honorably serve our nation in the U.S. Military. I would also like to thank the members of our academy nominating committee who interviewed the candidates and dedicated considerable time and effort to making sure our academies have the best candidates to consider.” The following high school nominees have accepted their appointments: U.S. Air Force Academy Jordan Dobranski (Orange, TX) — Little Cypress-Mauriceville High School Elizabeth Frakes (Houston, TX) — Clear Lake High School Alexander Nguyen (Nassau Bay, TX) — Clear Creek High School Khanh Nguyen (Pasadena, TX) — Pasadena Memorial High School Mariah Waters (Kountze, TX) — Silsbee High School U.S. Military Academy Gregory Brookover (Houston, TX) — Clear Lake High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Conrad Lock (Houston, TX) — Clear Brook High School For students interested in applying for a service academy nomination from Rep. Babin, please click here.
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Tuesday, May 25th, voted to pass the Zika Vector Control Act (H.R. 897), which removes federal regulatory barriers so that it is easier for our local communities to combat the spread of Zika through mosquito control. The Zika virus disease, which is primarily spread through infected mosquitoes, can cause serious birth defects and has been linked to severe fetal brain defects. While the Obama Administration oddly has threatened to veto the House’s latest effort to fight Zika, the legislation is consistent with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)’s recent recommendation on preventing the spread of Zika through mosquito control (Vector Surveillance and Control). “It is astonishing to me that the Obama Administration would prioritize government bureaucracy over killing mosquitoes and combating the Zika virus,” said Rep. Babin. “The Zika virus represents a serious health risk to the American people, and with temperatures on the rise and the amount of rain we have had in many parts of the country, it is crucial that we have every tool available to combat this public health threat. Our legislation would simply remove the bureaucratic hurdles and costs that were imposed by the Obama Administration back in 2009. It is extremely disappointing to see the President and the majority of Democrats in Congress putting government paperwork and permitting fees ahead of killing infected mosquitos and protecting human health. I will continue looking for every opportunity to address this serious health risk." On May 18th, the House also passed the Zika Response Appropriations Act (H.R. 5243), which responsibly funds and fully pays for the federal government’s fight against the Zika virus. In addition, last month, the House passed S. 2512, which was signed into law by President Obama on April 19th, to accelerate the development of a vaccine and treatment for Zika.
05.23.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Friday introduced the Student Privacy Protection and Safety Act (H.R. 5294) to ensure local schools, as well as public and private colleges, are not forced to carry out the Obama Administration’s misguided transgender bathroom policies. “The Obama Administration’s reinterpretation of current law would jeopardize the privacy and modesty of every child in America,” said Rep. Babin. “It is wrong to force upon tens of millions of American elementary, middle and high school students mixed gender bathrooms, locker rooms and changing rooms, but that is exactly what the Administration is doing. The federal government should not be in the business of throwing common sense and decency out the window and forcing local schools to permit a teenage boy who ‘identifies’ as a girl to use changing rooms, locker rooms and bathrooms with five year-old girls.” H.R. 5294 would prevent the federal government from enforcing the policy by completely invalidating the May 13th directive by the Department of Education and Department of Justice. Furthermore, the bill would prevent the federal government from issuing any further guidance of similar nature unless Congress directs it to do so.
05.16.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Friday introduced the Criminal Alien Deportation Enforcement Act of 2016 (H.R. 5224), which would withhold foreign aid and travel visas from any country that refuses to take back their own citizens who have been criminally detained in the United States. H.R. 5224, which was filed in response to the House Oversight Committee’s recent uncovering that many countries refuse to repatriate criminal aliens when the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) seeks to deport criminal aliens who are about to be released from prison. According to this report, a total of 86,288 criminals, who committed 231,074 crimes, have been released by the Obama Administration since 2013. Among them was an illegal immigrant named Jean Jacques, whose native Haiti refused to accept him back after he served 17 years for attempted murder. Within six months of his release from prison, Jacques murdered Casey Chadwick in New London, Conn. Had Haiti been compelled to take Jacques back, Casey would be alive today. “My bill puts the interests of American citizens, like Casey Chadwick, first,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “In just the past three years, the Obama Administration has allowed tens of thousands of dangerous criminal aliens back onto U.S. Streets – including 14,000 in Texas alone. Hundreds of Americans have died at the hands of these criminal aliens, and to make things worse, some of them were simply let go because their countries of origin refused to take them back. This is absolutely insane – and my bill holds uncooperative countries accountable by stripping them of U.S. foreign aid and travel visas.” The Criminal Alien Deportation Enforcement Act of 2016, which was introduced with twenty Republican cosponsors, also requires that the DHS to submit a report to Congress every three months listing those countries that refuse to take back their citizens. The countries listed in this report, like Haiti, will be subject to the bill’s restrictions, which also provides victims of these crimes standing to sue in a Federal district court.
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the Obama Administration’s mandate on gender-neutral school bathrooms: “Unfortunately, President Obama has chosen to set aside not only common sense, but also common decency, which violates the privacy and modesty of every child in America. It is unconscionable to force upon tens of millions of American elementary, middle and high schools students mixed gender bathrooms and changing rooms. It is the epitome of high-handed Washington overreach for the federal government to force local schools to permit a 12 year-old boy – who happens to identify as a girl – to use changing rooms and bathrooms with five year-old girls! Schools across America should not be threatened if they fail to adopt the Obama Administration’s radical gender-neutral bathroom policies. This is yet another reason why the bloated and wasteful Department of Education should be dismantled and this dangerous agenda must be stopped.”
05.04.2016	Houston, TX – On Saturday, April 30th, the Office of U.S. Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) hosted an awards ceremony at the University of Houston – Clear Lake to announce the winners and honor those who participated in the 36th Congressional District’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition. This year's competition, which included 78 total entries from high school students across the district, followed the theme of “The Great Outdoors of TX-36.” First place was awarded to Skylar Thomas of Crosby High School for her artwork, “Into the Woods,” which will now be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. Skylar will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., compliments of Southwest Airlines, to attend the national Congressional Art Competition ceremony in June. Second place was presented to Savannah Smith of Warren High School for her artwork “Serenity of Home” while third place went to Autumn Welch of Lumberton High School for her artwork “The Dock.” Both will be displayed in Congressman Babin’s office in Washington, D.C. “My staff and I were truly impressed by the incredible artwork displayed by our young folks across the 36th District of Texas,” said Congressman Babin. “With over 75 submissions perfectly fitting this year’s theme of ‘The Great Outdoors of TX- 36,’ we couldn’t have asked for a more exciting and outstanding group of artwork. I offer my congratulations to this year’s first place winner, Skylar Thomas, and all those who took time to participate. We will be represented proudly in the U.S. Capitol and in our Washington, D.C. office.” Honorable Mentions: Krista Wheeler | Orangefield High School | “Texan Portrait” Justin Livingston | Woodville High School | “Let’s Play Golf” Maura Fentress | Woodville High School | “My Way Home” Amanda Sanchez | Crosby High School | “A Quiet Afternoon” Faith Garland | Lumberton High School | “Setting Sun” Floyd Mendoza | Pasadena Memorial High School | “Close Call” Madison Gore | Woodville High School | “Sunset on Steinhagen” Samantha Carden | Crosby High School | “Changing Season” Samantha Santana | Crosby High School | “Friendship” To view more pictures from the event, please click here.
04.27.2016	Washington, DC – The American Conservative Union Foundation (ACU) on Tuesday presented U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) with the 2015 Award for Conservative Excellence for his perfect 100% conservative voting record in the First Session of the 114th Congress. The ACU, which is the oldest and largest conservative grassroots organization in the nation, also honored Rep. Babin as the highest scoring military veteran in the U.S. Congress. “As one of only five Republican Texan Congressmen to receive a perfect score, I am proud of our record of fighting to protect and advance our conservative Texas values in the U.S. Congress,” said Rep. Babin. “From voting to defund and block Obama’s executive amnesty to standing firm in opposition to wasteful and bloated government spending bills, I will always stand on the side of liberty, personal responsibility, traditional values, and strong national defense.”
04.22.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today condemning Secretary of State John Kerry’s signing of the Paris Climate Change Agreement at the U.N. Headquarters in New York City: “Secretary Kerry’s decision to commit the U.S. into this foolish agreement is nothing to celebrate. It will result in higher energy costs, fewer jobs and a more difficult life for hardworking Americans who have suffered enough under Obama’s lack-luster economy. By forcing the U.S. into this agreement, we will now feel the impact of his failed policies for many years to come. Furthermore, it will have no meaningful benefit on our planet. It is simply just another example of President Obama circumventing Congress to further his radical climate change agenda. “For this reason, I have cosponsored a resolution instructing the President to follow the U.S. Constitution and submit the agreement to the Senate as a treaty for its advice and consent. As the representative of an area that is a leading energy producer and user, I will continue helping lead the charge in Congress to block funding for this radical United Nations plan.”
04.08.2016	Houston, TX – Today, U.S. House Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (TX-36) and Representative of NASA’s Johnson Space Center, met with Astronaut Scott Kelly, who landed last month after spending nearly a year on the International Space Station (ISS). Kelly, who just announced his retirement from the NASA Astronaut Corp., is a veteran of four space flights and has spent more time in space than any other U.S. Astronaut. During his year-long ISS expedition mission, Kelly conducted many health and life science research experiments, using his twin brother, former astronaut Mark Kelly, as a baseline so that researchers could better understand the impacts of long-duration spaceflight on the human body. By further understanding and mitigating these health risks, it will help enable deeper space missions – including to Mars. Rep. Babin congratulated Commander Kelly on his successful mission, thanked him for his decades of dedicated service to our country as an Astronaut and retired U.S. Navy Capt., and closed their discussion by wishing him the best in his retirement.
04.01.2016	Deweyville, TX – Nearly 200 people attended a “Flood Disaster Assistance Workshop" on Thursday night hosted by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) and his staff at the Deweyville High School gymnasium. The event, which featured representatives from FEMA, SBA, FSA, TDEM and other community recovery agencies, provided flood victims in Newton, Orange and Jasper Counties with an opportunity to ask questions and hear directly from these agencies on applying for assistance. “I want to ensure that our community receives the information and assistance they need to recover,” said Rep. Babin. “These federal agency employees are the experts on these programs and in disaster recovery. Our office felt that it was important that we helped facilitate this discussion and allow residents a chance to hear from them and ask questions. Our goal is to make sure that no one falls through the cracks." Individuals who believe they may qualify for assistance should contact FEMA and SBA. Rep. Babin’s staff remains available to help put affected constituents in direct contact with the proper federal relief management agencies. Additionally, several residents raised questions about the events and decisions prior to the flooding. Rep. Babin told the group that his office was looking into that matter, particularly as it relates to any federal agency involvement. For assistance with FEMA, SBA or any other federal agency, you may contact Rep. Babin’s staff at 409-883-8075. Participating Agencies and Organizations: Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA)-Disaster Assistance, Farm Service Administration (FSA), Texas Division of Emergency Management (TDEM), American Red Cross, Samaritan's Purse and Southern Baptist Convention.
03.29.2016	Orange, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) announced today that his office will be facilitating a “Flood Disaster Assistance Workshop” on Thursday, March 31st, at Deweyville High School (171 Hwy 12) and on Friday, April 1st, at the West Orange-Cove CISD Administration Building (902 West Park Ave). The event, which will feature representatives from FEMA, SBA and Rep. Babin’s office, will provide flood victims in Orange, Newton, and Jasper Counties with an opportunity to ask questions and hear directly from these agencies on applying for assistance. Who: Staff from the Office of U.S. Rep. Brian Babin Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA)-Disaster Assistance The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Other public and private Disaster Recovery Organizations What: Flood Disaster Assistance Workshop for flood victims in Orange, Newton, and Jasper Counties Details: Deweyville Thursday, March 31st, 2016 — 7 PM to 9 PM Deweyville High School Gymnasium 171 Hwy 12 Orange, Texas Orange Friday, April 1st, 2016 — 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM West Orange-Cove CISD Administration Building 902 West Park Ave Orange, Texas
03.25.2016	Newton County, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Thursday surveyed the flood damage in Deweyville and Bon Wier while meeting with some of the victims and first responders. Babin also visited the Jasper Emergency Operations Center (EOC) to discuss the ongoing response effort to the devastating flooding that severely impacted Jasper and Newton Counties. “My heart breaks for those who have lost so much to the flood waters,” said Babin. “However, I couldn't be more proud of how our communities have pulled together to help each other during these difficult times. That’s what it’s all about in East Texas. I commend everyone involved, especially our first responders, for their incredible response to this extremely challenging situation. My staff and I will continue doing all that we can to help the victims and be a resource to our state and local partners. While this will be a difficult road ahead, our office will be there to help each step of the way.”
03.24.2016	Orange, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today surveyed the flood damage in Orange County and held a meeting with local elected leaders and emergency response officials at the Orange Emergency Operations Center (EOC) on the response efforts to the recent flooding that severely impacted Orange County and surrounding areas. “I commend all of our state and local partners, especially our first responders, for their incredible response to this extremely challenging situation,” said Babin. “My staff and I have been working closely with everyone involved and will continue to do so to ensure the victims are getting the resources and attention they so desperately need. While the recovery effort will certainly be a difficult road ahead, our office will be there to help each step of the way.” Attendees included: Senator Robert Nichols and JD Hale, County Judge Brint Carlton, Commissioner Barry Burton, Pct. 2, Commissioner David Dubose, Pct. 1, Commissioner Jody, Crump, Pct. 4, Sheriff Merritt and his Chief Deputy John Tarver, Jay Trahan-Director of Economic Development for City of Orange, Shawn Oubre-Orange City Manager, Mayor Pete Runnels of Pinehurst, along with his city manager Robbie Hood, and Chief of Police Fred Hanauer.
03.23.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) announced today that 53 of his colleagues have joined him in asking the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to include language in their upcoming spending bill that would apply much-needed enhanced security measures to America’s refugee resettlement program the House overwhelmingly approved under the SAFE Act (H.R. 4038) on November 19, 2015. “This week we witnessed the latest in a series of deadly attacks led by radical Islamic terrorists who have capitalized on the generous immigration and refugee polices of European leaders,” said Babin. “Despite promises by ISIS to take advantage of America’s refugee program, President Obama is unilaterally increasing the number of Syrian refugees allowed entry into the U.S. by tens of thousands. Top officials throughout the government have indicated that they cannot properly vet these refugees for national security risks.” “We cannot and should not allow this to happen on our watch and to be funded under appropriations bills that we approve. I am pleased that over 50 of my colleagues have joined me in sending this letter to make sure that those seeking to enter the U.S. as refugees from Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, or Yemen have been subjected to the highest level of scrutiny.” Co-signers (54): Brian Babin, Dave Brat, Paul Cook, Randy Weber, Blake Farenthold, Pete Sessions, John Fleming, Jason Smith, Louie Gohmert, Jim Bridenstine, Richard Hudson, Jeff Duncan, Bill Posey, Jeb Hensarling, Buddy Carter, Tom Emmer, Blaine Luetkemeyer, Sam Johnson, Ryan Zinke, Barry Loudermilk, Matt Salmon, John Shimkus, Bradley Byrne, Pete Olson, Tom Marino, Trey Gowdy, Lou Barletta, Bill Flores, Lamar Smith, John Ratcliffe, Vicky Hartzler, Tom McClintock, Dan Newhouse, David Rouzer, Mark Walker, Bruce Westerman, Doug LaMalfa, Phil Roe, Steve Chabot, Trent Franks, Cynthia Lummis, Randy Neugebauer, David McKinley, French Hill, Frank Guinta, Adrian Smith, Robert E. Latta, Glen Thompson, Roger Williams, Mike Bishop, Diane Black, Ted Yoho, Michael Burgess, and Jeff Miller.
03.19.2016	Orange, TX – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) announced today this office officially received the approval of Governor Abbott's presidential federal disaster declaration for Orange, Jasper and Newton Counties, which triggers the release of federal funds to help local communities recover from the historic flooding. “Our hearts and prayers continue to go out to all those who have been impacted by the devastating flooding in Southeast Texas,” said Babin. “My staff and I have been working tirelessly to see that this designation was made to ensure our fellow neighbors get the financial help they so desperately need.” Individuals in Jasper, Newton, and Orange Counties can register the following ways: *Apply online at http://www.DisasterAssistance.gov. *Constituents may call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Please have the following available: *Your address with zip code *Directions to your property *Condition of your damaged home *Insurance information, if available *Social Security Number *Phone number where you can be contacted *Address where you can get mail *Declaration Number: FEMA-4266-DR If you are having trouble applying for FEMA assistance, please do not hesitate to contact our Orange District Office at 409-883-8075.
03.17.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to allow the Speaker of the House to file an amicus brief in the upcoming Supreme Court case United States v. Texas, which questions the constitutionality of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. The resolution (H. Res. 639), which marks the first of its kind, allows the majority of the House to express its opposition to President Obama's executive amnesty. “Today’s vote is a historic and much-needed step to stop President Obama’s unlawful and unconstitutional executive actions on immigration,” said Babin. “The President’s decision to grant amnesty through executive action makes a mockery of our laws and the U.S. Constitution. This resolution makes clear that the majority of the House believes the President’s actions are a gross overreach of executive authority – and must be struck down by the Supreme Court. It’s critical that Congress takes a stand in defense of its Article I powers and this resolution is an important step in that direction.”
03.16.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement today that he will be nominating Federal Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court: “It's been over 80 years since a new Supreme Court Justice was nominated and confirmed in a presidential election year. Now is not the time to reverse such course. We are in the midst of one of the most important elections of our lifetimes. I strongly support Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s decision to let the American people speak at the ballot box before we hand another liberal Justice a lifetime position on the highest court in the land. The stakes are simply too high to do otherwise. “In fact, in 1992, then-Senator Joe Biden made clear that the Senate should not consider an election year Justice nomination. Furthermore, in 2006, then-Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden and John Kerry voted to filibuster and deny President Bush’s nominee an up-or-down vote. Simply put, the Senate has a Constitutionally protected right to deny the nomination of any Justice put forth by the President. To say otherwise, is purely false.”
03.14.2016	Houston, TX – On Friday, U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) honored retiring “Voice of the Houston Rodeo” Bill Bailey and his wife Janis with the following Congressional Record proclamation for his over 50 years of service at RodeoHouston. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a great man, and an icon of our Houston community, retired Harris County Precinct 8 Constable Bill Bailey. “Bill Bailey has been the voice of RodeoHouston for the past three decades. He has brought unparalleled enthusiasm and depth of expertise to his craft, honed by years of experience. Bill has been involved with the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo for over 50 years, where he serves as both a board member and a lifetime vice president. “Bill's iconic voice and announcing talent were honed by an equally prodigious career in broadcast radio, which saw Bill inducted into the Country Radio Broadcasters Hall of Fame in 2010. Through the medium of the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, Bill Bailey has also been instrumental in raising millions of dollars for educational scholarships to benefit Texas area youth and to enrich countless other worthy causes across Southeast Texas. “Let me extend my most hearty congratulations to Bill Bailey as he retires from RodeoHouston and turns the page on another chapter in his storied life.”
03.03.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) will once again be hosting a Congressional Art Competition in 2016, which is open to all high school students (Grades 9-12). Participating students must reside within geographical bounds the 36th Congressional District of Texas and all entries must follow the theme “The Great Outdoors of TX-36.” This may include national, state, and municipal parks or wildlife refuges, beaches, marshes, seashores, landscapes, and other scenes from across the 36th District of Texas. Teachers or home school students must submit an intent to apply application no later than Friday, April 1st. The first place entry will be displayed for one year in a national exhibit, representing the people of the 36th District, in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. Additionally, the first place recipient must be able to participate in the national awards reception in Washington, D.C. Round-trip airfare to Washington will be provided. The second and third place entries will be displayed for one year in Congressman Babin’s Washington and District offices, respectively. For more information or to sign-up, please visit www.babin.house.gov or contact Ms. Beverly Ferguson, Regional Director of Community Relations, at 832-780-0966 or by email at beverly.ferguson@mail.house.gov.
03.02.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today celebrating the 180th anniversary of Texas independence: “On this date, 180 years ago, a group of brave Texas settlers broke from the ruling Mexican authorities to officially establish the Republic of Texas. Their bravery and courage continues to serve as an inspiration and reminder of what makes Texas so great. Just like at the Battle of the Alamo and the Battle of San Jacinto, Texans have never been afraid to stand up for our principles and fight for our rights – even when greatly outnumbered. Today, as we celebrate Texas Independence Day, we honor all those who came before us and helped make Texas the greatest state in the union.”
02.12.2016	Washington, DC – The U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee unanimously approved two amendments this week offered by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) during the consideration of H.R. 4441, the Aviation Innovation, Reform and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act. The first amendment would set strict new guidelines for the operation of drones near chemical plants and oil refineries. “As the representative of the 36th Congressional District of Texas, which is home to more petrochemical and refining facilities than any other district in the country, I was proud to offer this amendment and secure the adoption of these provisions as a way to protect our oil and gas facilities and their employees from potentially hazardous and unauthorized drone activity,” said Rep. Babin. The American Chemistry Council (ACC) offered their strong support in a statement saying the “ACC and its members thank Congressman Babin for his tremendous leadership and for working tirelessly with Chairman Shuster to craft a sensible proposal that will promote the responsible use of drones. Today’s vote will help address a mounting security concern and help safeguard chemical facilities, which play a critical role in manufacturing products that are important to the everyday health and well-being of our nation. The provisions carefully target the potential misuse of drones for illicit purposes without interfering with their growing use by the public for recreation and their use for commercial applications. We strongly support the Committee’s action to include the amendment as part of the legislation to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration and encourage Congress to follow suit.” The second amendment offered by Babin would give the American people, through their elected representatives in Congress, a final check on the ability of the new ATC Corporation’s ability to assess and impose fees on the traveling public. “By allowing Congress a 90-day review period to block the implementation of any fee increase, my amendment would let the American people know where their elected representatives stand on any proposed fee increase, no matter who is in charge of imposing them,” said Babin. Both amendments were included in final passage H.R. 4441, the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act, which reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), provides a number of reforms to our aviation system, and upholds the FAA’s role as the nation’s aviation safety regulator. The bill, which was approved by a vote of 32 to 26, now awaits further consideration by the full House of Representatives.
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling to halt President Obama’s EPA “Clean Power Plan” regulations: “This is a huge victory for the American people, the state of Texas and the rule of law. President Obama’s ‘Clean Power Plan’ is an unworkable cap-and-trade energy scheme that unlawfully circumvents Congressional authority. It will eliminate thousands of jobs, shut down coal plants and mines across the country, and raise the electricity bills of tens of millions of Americans – particularly in Texas. The President boldly proclaimed that he would use his 'pen and phone’ to enact policies that Congress rejected. I commend the Supreme Court for putting a stop to this unlawful abuse of power and protecting the American people from another blatant EPA overreach."
02.09.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) strongly dismissed President Obama’s final budget proposal today as nothing more than an unrealistic and irresponsible liberal wish list that further solidifies his legacy of record debt and spending. The President’s $4 trillion budget, which calls for $2.5 trillion in new spending and $3.4 trillion in higher taxes, would increase the national debt to over $27 trillion – which is two and a half times larger than when he took office. “This is not a serious proposal,” said Babin. “As has been the case throughout his presidency, President Obama’s budget never balances and leaves further generations of Americans on the hook for trillions of dollars in more government that we do not need and cannot afford. Even under President Obama’s standards, this is an extremely radical budget that fortunately has no chance of becoming law. It’s past time we put this nation on a path to a balanced budget and end Washington’s addiction to spending money that it does not have. We need to act now – future generations depend on it.”
02.02.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement today after voting to override President Obama’s veto of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act (H.R. 3762), which would dismantle Obamacare, prohibit federal funding for Planned Parenthood and save taxpayers over $500 billion: “While I am certainly not surprised by the President’s veto and the lack support from Democrats to override it, this entire process shows what is at stake in November. With a Republican in the White House, the President could sign this bill and finally rid the nation of Obamacare, restore health care freedom and eliminate taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood. No longer would the American people have to suffer under Obamacare – and its unaffordable costs, broken promises and countless big government mandates. Instead, we would put the nation on a path toward patient-focused care rather than government-directed care.”
01.26.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to a Houston grand jury’s decision to indict two individuals for their role in the Center for Medical Progress videos that exposed Planned Parenthood’s harvesting of aborted babies’ tissue and organs: “I am disappointed and shocked by a grand jury’s decision to indict these two individuals who courageously uncovered the despicable actions of Planned Parenthood. It’s deeply offensive and ridiculous that those who illegally sell aborted human body parts get a pass -- while these two pro-life defenders are indicted for using aliases to expose Planned Parenthood’s unlawful and disgusting practices of selling baby body parts. “This decision begs the question: how else could they get the truth? These operations are a common tactic used to uncover criminal activity. Sadly, this is another effort used to silence and intimidate those seeking to defend the unborn. While this is disappointing, it will certainly not work. I will continue to strongly support the ongoing investigation by a House Select Committee into Planned Parenthood’s actions and will not stop fighting to end all taxpayer funding for this organization.”
01.22.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today on the 43rd anniversary of the Supreme Court's tragic ruling in Roe v. Wade: “Since Roe v. Wade we have lost 57 million innocent lives. That is an astounding and absolutely heart numbing loss. Each one of those 57 million children had a future destroyed by abortion. The sanctity of human life must be protected. We have a duty to protect the life of all Americans, especially the unborn. I stand today with the thousands of Americans gathered in Washington to serve as the voice of 57 million unborn babies whose lives were tragically taken through abortion.” Earlier this month, Babin spoke passionately on the House floor in remembrance of the 43rd anniversary of Roe v. Wade. To view the video, please click here.
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement this evening in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “As expected, President Obama used his last State of the Union address as some sort of a delusional victory lap – filled with the same empty rhetoric and broken promises that has come to define his presidency. This is what we’ve come to expect from a failed President who has lost all touch with reality when it comes to the concerns and priorities of average American citizens. “Instead of lecturing the American people, the President should have used this opportunity to tell the truth, which is that we are at war with radical Islamic terrorism – an enemy that he refuses to even identify. Sadly, the President has doubled down on his failed and dangerous policies that only embolden the enemy, such as unilaterally closing Guantanamo Bay and importing tens of thousands of poorly-vetted Syrian refugees into the United States. “Contrary to what President Obama has said, the American people continue to suffer under his policies. Americans are paying too much for their health care, our nation’s borders remain dangerously porous and federal regulations have reached record levels. This is not the type of change that Americans want. “Fortunately, we can take some comfort in the fact this was President Obama’s last State of the Union address. Looking forward, we must elect a President who will re-prioritize government's greatest responsibility, which is to protect the safety and security of the American people. We must also realize that we are at war, a war not of our choosing, but a war nonetheless. It’s time that we rebuild America’s military, secure our borders, suspend our refugee program and restore America’s vital leadership around the world."
01.08.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36), who is leading the charge in Congress to stop President Obama’s plans to bring in tens of thousands of Syrian refugees into the U.S., issued the following statement today after two Iraqi refugees were arrested in Houston and Sacramento in an ongoing ISIS terrorism investigation: “This is exactly why I'm working so hard to suspend America’s broken U.N.-led refugee resettlement program and stop President Obama’s ill-advised plans to expand the program. We’ve been warned by Obama’s own DHS, DNI and FBI directors that they cannot properly vet these folks – and ISIS is delivering on their promise to exploit the program. This serves as yet another wakeup call to anyone who has doubts about the real and imminent threat we face from Obama’s dangerous and reckless refugee policies. We must act now. Further delay is not an option.”
01.06.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to send to the President’s desk a bill to repeal Obamacare. This breakthrough legislation -- the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act (H.R. 3762) -- would dismantle Obamacare, prohibit federal funding for Planned Parenthood and save taxpayers over $500 billion. “For the first time ever, an Obamacare repeal bill will now actually reach the President’s desk,” said Rep. Babin. “For years, President Obama has hidden behind the obstruction of Senate Democrats from ever having to defend his disastrous health care law. While it is certain the President will fully embrace his failed policies and veto this legislation, his actions cannot be overlooked. As the 2016 Presidential election approaches, the American people will be presented with an important decision. We cannot afford more of the same policies of President Obama. This legislation shows the American people that there is a better option. One that is focused on restoring health care freedom, defending the unborn and cutting wasteful spending. We must provide the American people with an alternative vision to the disastrous policies of this failed President – and this is an important step in that direction.”
01.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor this evening in opposition to President Obama’s announced executive actions on gun control. Babin condemned the President for using the recent terrorist attacks as a way to undermine the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding American citizens. To watch the video, please click here. “President Obama’s disdain for gun owners has been clear from the start and this is another sad chapter in his presidency," said Rep. Babin. "It’s a shame the President would exploit the latest act of terrorism in this manner. The murders of Americans in San Bernardino were due to a radical jihadi ideology – and nothing the President is doing through his unilateral actions would address that. We are Constitutional Republic and the President cannot simply bypass Congress when his ill-advised initiatives are rejected. The President would be best served to join Congress in focusing on the growing threat of terrorism rather than making it easier to disarm law-abiding Americans. I’ll do all I can to stop this unlawful and unconstitutional executive action.”
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36), who is leading the charge in Congress to stop President Obama’s plans to bring in tens of thousands of Syrian refugees into the U.S., voted against the year-end government omnibus spending bill (H.R. 2029) because it failed to include much-needed provisions that he has fought so hard for to protect American citizens and stop President Obama’s dangerous refugee policies. “While there is one really good, but unrelated, provision in this bill – the lifting of the ban on exporting crude oil – it is not enough to offset the danger to our national security, which far outweighs anything else,” said Rep. Babin. “Since July I have been leading the effort to address the national security vulnerabilities we face in our dangerous and reckless U.N.-led refugee program. “Unfortunately, this legislation fails to take the necessary steps to protect American citizens from ISIS sympathizers who have begun to infiltrate the refugee population. What’s worse is the fact that it provides a $100 million increase to the refugee resettlement program. At a time when the President’s own DHS, DNI and FBI directors say we cannot properly screen these folks, the failure to stop this dangerous Obama Administration initiative is a huge mistake that leaves the American people vulnerable.”
12.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who is leading the effort with the support of 74 of his colleagues to include a provision in the year-end spending bill to pause and scrutinize the refugee resettlement program, took to the House floor last night to urge his colleagues to not give up on using the power of the purse to stop President Obama’s dangerous and reckless refugee policies. To watch the video, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in using the power of the purse to stop the reckless policies of President Obama that leave the citizens of the United States vulnerable. Americans overwhelming support this. The FBI, DNI and DHS have testified that they cannot fully screen the thousands of refugees that the President wants to bring in from Syria, Somalia, Iraq and other regions with high rates of terrorism. Illegal immigrants from Syria, Libya, Somalia and other hotbeds of terrorism continue to test the openness of our Southern border. “The loopholes in the screening of immigrants from hotbeds of terrorism are being exploited and the Administration opposes closing them. This House has one chance with the end of the year appropriations bill to stop these dangerous policies. This Member of Congress will vote against any bill rushed to the floor that fails to stop these reckless policies. Let’s put aside political correctness, criticism from foreign nationals that leave Americans vulnerable. This is our chance to stop future attacks like those in San Bernardino, Paris, Chattanooga, Garland and Ft. Hood. The lives of these American Citizens are worth it – indeed, they cry out for it.”
11.30.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) was joined by 73 of his colleagues in sending a letter to Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McCarthy and Appropriations Chairman Rogers asking that a provision be included in the upcoming year-end spending bill that would defund and suspend the President’s Syrian refugee plan pending further Congressional oversight and scrutiny over the refugee resettlement program. “There is no duty of the federal government more important than ensuring the protection of the American people,” the letter states. “We believe that we would fall short of that duty if Congress fails to exercise greater authority over the Administration’s refugee resettlement program. We see this as an important national security concern. It is prudent and in the best interest of the American people that language be included in the upcoming FY 2016 appropriations legislation to restore Congressional oversight and authority over the refugee program.” The letter, which is consistent with Babin’s bill that he introduced back in July -- the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314) -- specifically requests the following provisions be added in the final spending package: 1) Suspend the program permitting refugees from Syria, the Middle East, and North Africa to settle in the U.S. unless Congress reinstitutes the program by joint resolution. 2) Conduct a rigorous overhaul of the refugee investigation and admission process, and add new oversight measures and requirements before the program can resume. 3) Continue to provide reasonable funding for food, medicine, and shelter for refugees overseas.
11.20.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) was joined by 14 of his colleagues today in sending a letter to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau requesting that the Canadian government hold off on authorizing any contingency plans for Keystone XL -- such as re-routing the pipeline to Canada’s western shore -- until the end of next year, in order to be certain that we do not lose this opportunity if our next president supports building the pipeline. “America is in the midst of a great debate that will culminate next year with the election of our 45th President,” the letter says. “After President Obama leaves office, decisions such as approval of the Keystone XL pipeline will fall upon his successor. Simply put, if the American People choose a president who supports building Keystone XL, that president can reverse this misguided decision and authorize the project the day he or she takes office.” Co-signers include: Babin (TX), Fleming (LA), Gibbs (OH), Poe (TX), Duncan (SC), Jenkins (KS), Lummis (WY), Farenthold (TX), Rouzer (NC), Loudermilk (GA), Brooks (AL), Zinke (MT), Williams (TX), Miller (FL), and Mulvaney (SC).
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) joined a bipartisan, veto-proof majority today in passing H.R. 4038, which requires the heads of the FBI, DHS and DNI to personally certify the background investigation of each refugee coming into the United States. Babin, who has been a leader on the refugee issue, introduced legislation back in July to place an immediate moratorium on all refugee resettlements and is currently circulating a letter in support of a provision to be included in the upcoming spending bill to fully defund the President’s Syrian refugee plan and restore Congressional oversight of this program. “While today’s bill is not as strong as I wanted it to be, it does place new restrictions on the President by requiring the FBI Director, DHS Secretary and DNI Director to personally sign off on each refugee to ensure he or she is not a threat to our national security. This is certainly better than current law and will compel these agencies to conduct a more thorough background check. If they cannot conduct such an investigation, they won’t be coming in,” said Rep. Babin. “Nonetheless, I believe we must do more and have a sworn duty to do so. I’ll continue fighting for an immediate moratorium on Obama's reckless refugee program, and we need to use the upcoming spending bill to defund this madness. A clear, strong majority of the American people want a pause in this refugee program. They’ve seen what happened in Paris and they are rightfully concerned. I will not stop this fight – and in my mind it has only begun. I’d also add that nothing stops us from continuing to provide basic humanitarian aid to them right there by their homeland. We continue doing that while putting the safety and security of the American people first.”
11.18.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who introduced legislation back in July to block President Obama’s Syrian refugee plan, is currently in the process of circulating a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers asking that there be a provision included in the year-end spending bill to fully defund and prevent new refugee resettlements. The letter, which is consistent with his bill H.R. 3314, the Refugee Resettlement Accountability National Security Act, has reached 57 co-signers since first being circulated on Monday. The letter will remain open until the end of the week. “There is no duty of the federal government more important than ensuring the protection of the American people,” said Rep. Babin. “With the recent horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, it is now more critical than ever that the United States halt the troublesome refugee resettlement program. “The upcoming year-end spending bill provides the best opportunity to be successful in stopping this reckless refugee program. Europe is witnessing first-hand the problems posed by this program, and we do not need to import the problems of the Middle East into the United States. I am pleased that many of my colleagues are recognizing this danger and supporting our letter. I look forward to continuing this effort and expanding our support to help stop this insane program.”
11.16.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who has been sounding the alarm and leading the effort in Congress to block President Obama’s Syrian refugee plan, is urging immediate action on his Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314), as well as leading a letter to House leadership asking that a provision be included in the year-end spending bill that defunds the Administration’s dangerous and foolish plans to accept more Syrian refugees. “The terrorist attack in Paris by militant Islamists is a loud clanging alarm bell to Congress and the American people warning us why we must block Obama’s reckless and foolish plan to allow tens of thousands of Syrian refugees into the U.S. At least one of the Paris terrorists was a Syrian refugee who entered Europe just a few weeks ago. It would be an abdication of our sworn duty to protect the American people if we fail to block Obama’s UN refugee plan. Top DNI, CIA and FBI officials have said they are unable to fully screen terrorists out of the Syrian refugee population. We also have seen more than 400 Americans join ISIS and there are reports of over 1,000 ISIS investigations ongoing. Our duty is to defend the American people against all enemies foreign and domestic. President Obama’s plan violates that oath. That’s why I am leading the effort in Congress to block his plan and I will do all I can to stop this insanity.”
11.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-Texas) today praised passage of crucial legislation that provides guidance and certainty for American commercial space partners. The bicameral, bipartisan agreement on H.R. 2262, the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act, consolidates language from the House-passed SPACE Act with provisions from the Senate’s commercial space legislation. It is now headed to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin: “This bipartisan, bicameral bill creates a framework that will attract private investment in space and secure American leadership in commercial space endeavors. None of this could have been possible without the tireless leadership of Majority Leader McCarthy and Chairman Lamar Smith, who sponsored the bill.” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy: “Today America stands at the beginning of a new era of innovation and adventure. Scientists --- engineers --- astronauts --- and entrepreneurs are working to embark on the next phase of our journey into space. Completing consideration of the SPACE Act in this chamber today helps ensure America remains the leader in space exploration and innovation in the 21st century. I look forward to the President signing this bill into law.” Chairman Lamar Smith: “This bill is the product of over three years of work, 14 committee hearings, multiple markups, and input from industry, education groups, and grassroots citizen advocacy groups. Virtually every space stakeholder group supports this bill. It passed the Senate unanimously last week. “H.R. 2262 keeps America at the forefront of aerospace technology, promotes American jobs, reduces red tape, promotes safety, and inspires the next generation of explorers. It provides the boost America’s private space partners need as they lead the world into the future. “Thanks go to Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, an honorary member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, for sponsoring this important legislation. This bill encourages the private sector to launch rockets, take risks, and shoot for the stars.” Following last week’s Senate passage, McCarthy and Smith thanked Senators Thune, Cruz, and Nelson for their work on the bill. The House today passed H.R. 2262 with a broad bipartisan majority as well as support from space community stakeholders. Specifically, H.R. 2262: · Extends the Federal Aviation Administration’s regulatory learning period through September 30, 2023 · Preserves the risk sharing regime that allows American companies to remain internationally competitive through September 30, 2025 · Provides a four-year extension of the International Space Station until at least 2024 that gives certainty for ISS National Laboratory users The House-Senate agreement also includes three additional bills passed out of the House Science Committee: · H.R. 2261, the “Commercial Remote Sensing Act of 2015” introduced by Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.) · H.R. 2263, the “Office of Space Commerce Act” introduced by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) · H.R. 1508, the “Space Resource Exploration and Utilization Act of 2015” introduced by Rep. Bill Posey (R-Fla.) and Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.). In addition to McCarthy and Smith, H.R. 2262 was originally introduced in the House with the support of the following cosponsors: Representatives Steven Palazzo (R-Miss.), Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Michael McCaul (R-Texas), Bill Posey (R-Fla.), Steve Knight (R-Calif.), Brian Babin (R-Texas), Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.), Randy Weber (R-Texas), and John Moolenaar (R-Mich.).
11.09.2015	Washington, DC – Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved two amendments put forth by U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) to a multi-year surface transportation bill that overwhelmingly passed the House. The first amendment, which Rep. Babin co-authored with Rep. Blake Farenthold (TX-27), would ensure the same weight limits that are in place right now for certain trucks on certain stretches of roads would remain the same on Interstate 69. On the House floor, Rep. Babin explained the importance of this amendment to local timber industry jobs (to view the video, click here). To view Babin's remarks on his I-69 amendment, click here. “Unless we get this amendment adopted, the new blue signs for Interstate 69 in East Texas won't just mean a new interstate. It could mean financial ruin for our loggers who already have a very thin profit margin and a very tough time for our timber industry,” said Rep. Babin. “It will mean a dramatic decrease in the amount of weight that all the loggers can haul on their trucks, which they have been doing safely and effectively on these roads for generations, even back when these same Texas counties were represented by our colorful Texas Democrat Congressman, Timber Charlie Wilson.” “Better roads and better use of those roads means economic activity and more jobs,” said Ron Hufford, the Executive Director of the Texas Forestry Association. “The East Texas timber industry is greatly appreciative to Congressman Brian Babin and Congressman Blake Farenthold for their amendment to preserve our current ability to efficiently move our timber to the mills, and our products to market. Without this amendment, efficiency would be lost and our costs increased which always has an adverse impact on jobs.” Rep. Babin’s second amendment would designate the Central Texas corridor as the first segment of Interstate 14, an area that will serve as a critical passage way between military facilities, metropolitan areas, and Texas' existing and future interstate system. “There is a reason this interstate already has a nickname, ‘Forts to Ports,' as it provides either direct or very close access for some of our country's most strategically important military and shipping assets,” said Rep. Babin during the amendment’s consideration on the House floor (to view the video, click here). “I am honored to offer on behalf of my State of Texas, our military, and all Americans this amendment to designate the central Texas corridor as the first segment of what I truly believe will be America's next great highway, Interstate 14.” Former Polk County Judge John Thompson, who serves as Chairman of the I-14/US 190 Gulf Coast Strategic Highway Coalition, in expressing appreciation to Congressman Babin for his work on this amendment said, “This amendment is great news for the country because the highway improvements will facilitate the movement of military equipment from our military bases to our ports, and great news for economic development for our communities along the route!"
11.06.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after President Obama rejected the Keystone XL Pipeline: "While the President’s decision is certainly not surprising, it is nonetheless the wrong one for America. The vast majority of Americans support Keystone – including a bipartisan majority of Congress – because it is good for the economy and strengthens America’s energy security. By kowtowing to radical environmentalists and rejecting tens of thousands of good-paying American jobs, the President has decided to put his extreme environmental agenda ahead of the needs of hardworking Americans. The President’s decision undermines U.S. economic and national security by allowing Canadian oil to be shipped to China rather than the U.S. The President should be ashamed of this -- and the foolish way he handled the entire process.”
10.30.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) took to the House floor on Wednesday night to speak out about the grave threat associated with the U.N.-run refugee program. Babin urged his colleagues to join him in supporting his legislation, the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314), which immediately suspends the program to provide Congress time to fully assess the national security risks and investigate its financial burden on federal, state and local taxpayers. To view video of Babin’s speech and read the full transcript, please click here. Below are excerpts of his remarks: To watch Babin's House floor speech, please click here. "Mr. Speaker, I feel compelled to speak tonight on an issue that impacts the safety and security of this country. There is a grave threat to our national security that no one seems to want to talk about or address. We talk around it, allude to it, look the other way, or vainly hope that it will just go away. But sticking our heads in the sand will not make it go away. Instead the threat is growing and a lack of knowledge, foresight and action on our part could jeopardize the future of our children and our grandchildren. "The threat that I am referring to is the Refugee Resettlement Act. Today, I want to share with my colleagues and the nation some very important aspects of the Refugee Resettlement program which I hope will result in serious debate and effective reevaluation of our current refugee resettlement policies. "After events like 9/11 and the Boston Marathon Bombing, you would think America would have implemented a more rigorous screening process for allowing entry into the United States. On the contrary, and as the world becomes increasingly more dangerous, significant security gaps remain. President Obama has recently announced his plans to increase from 70,000 to 85,000 the number of refugees allowed into the U.S. in 2016. And, for 2017 he plans to bring in 100,000. Most of the increase is from Syria and western Iraq, a direct result of the conflict of ISIS and Obama’s own weak, disjointed foreign policy. "In addition to the alarming national security concerns the resettlement program poses, there are significant costs that will be placed on the U.S. taxpayer and state and local governments. The numbers we have seen suggest a large economic burden on Americans, and we do not even know the full extent of all the costs. "This is why I have introduced H.R. 3314 the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act of 2015. My bill places an immediate moratorium on the U.S. refugee resettlement program until the Government Accountability Office conducts a study to determine the economic cost to the American taxpayer and Congress analyzes the risks to our national security.
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives elected Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) to be the next Speaker of the House: "Today, I joined a nearly unified House Republican Conference in electing Paul Ryan to be the next Speaker of the House. Along with many of my conservative House colleagues, I have met directly with Chairman Ryan to gain his assurance that he will stay focused on the conservative policies that form the majority of our House Republican Conference. This includes my efforts to stop President Obama’s dangerous Syrian refugee plan, which I personally raised with him. Chairman Ryan also promised us that he will change the way the House operates to a manner in which each member is empowered and involved throughout the legislative process. I believe that Chairman Ryan can unify our House Republican Conference around a bold conservative agenda – and I look forward to working with him to advance these policies.”
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “This budget deal is exactly why the American people are so fed up with Washington. I couldn’t be more disappointed and frustrated with both the substance of this budget-busting agreement, as well as the way it was negotiated in secret and rushed through Congress. “With a $19 trillion national debt, it’s unfathomable that Congress would simply hand this Administration another $1.5 trillion debt ceiling increase without any meaningful spending cuts or reforms in return. For that reason alone, I could not support this ill-conceived measure. “Sadly, this budget will only solidify President Obama’s legacy of unprecedented debt and spending, which has caused the United States to accumulate as much debt in eight years as the entire 232 years from George Washington through George W. Bush.”
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, a group of bipartisan Members led by a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee Gene Green (D-TX) introduced H.R. 3823. This legislation would provide direct hire authority to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) with an emphasis on creating opportunities for women, veterans, and minorities. Shifting hire authority from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) directly to PHMSA would streamline and expedite the hiring process for pipeline inspectors. The bills original cosponsors are Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, and Reps. Janice Hahn (D-CA) and Brian Babin (R-TX). Green said, “Pipelines are the safest, quickest, and most efficient way to transport oil. Unfortunately, when pipeline accidents do occur, they can have harmful effects on the environment and surrounding communities. Updating our infrastructure is only one part of making pipelines safer. We need to hire and invest in pipeline inspectors. This bill will expedite that process while creating opportunities for underrepresented groups.” Olson said, “Pipeline safety is critical and relies upon an adequate supply of inspectors to accomplish inspections in a timely manner to both protect surrounding areas and ensure timely delivery of needed energy. This bipartisan bill expedites the process to hire more inspectors to improve the safety and delivery of vital resources flowing through America’s pipelines. I’m pleased that we have bipartisan support for this needed legislation.” “As a strong supporter of our nation’s energy pipeline system, I am pleased to co-author this legislation to further facilitate and invest in the hiring of pipeline safety inspectors,” said Babin. “The United States has the largest network of energy pipelines in the nation and it is critical that we continue to make pipeline safety a priority. This bill will help ensure our pipeline network remains the safest and most cost-effective way to transport large volumes of energy products across the United States.” Hahn added, “I have long called for PHMSA to be more active on pipeline inspections, but in order to do that they need more inspectors on the job. Quite simply, more inspectors will mean safer pipelines and safer communities. This legislation is a step toward preventing pipeline ruptures like those we have seen recently in my community in Wilmington as well as in Santa Barbara.”
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) today introduced the Alternative Ammunition Manufacturing Act (H.R. 3802) to ensure ammunition manufactures have the certainty they need to produce alternative types of ammo. H.R. 3802, which is endorsed by the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF), National Rifle Association (NRA), and Gun Owners of America (GOA), requires the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to issue a ruling within 60 days of receiving a waiver application, or else the application will be automatically granted. “Over the past three and a half years, the ATF has failed to respond in a reasonable and timely manner to requests from ammunition manufacturers who are seeking waivers to produce alternative rifle ammunition for the hunting market made with brass instead of lead or copper,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “This has created considerable uncertainty for ammunition manufacturers and gun owners alike. Manufacturers looking to comply with the law and produce alternative types of ammunition should not be given the silent treatment by the ATF. Our legislation will hold the ATF accountable for their inaction by requiring a timely and detailed response to all waiver requests.” “This legislation will allow ammunition manufacturers to more quickly bring to market alternative hunting ammunition products to serve consumers in markets like California where traditional ammunition is banded for hunting and for those hunters who prefer to use alternative products,” said Lawrence Keane, Senior Vice President, Assistant Secretary & General Counsel of the National Shootings Sports Foundation. “If the Obama Administration wants these companies to use alternative materials when producing ammunition then they have to tell them what those materials are. It shouldn’t be a secret," said NRA-ILA Executive Director Chris Cox. “On behalf of the NRA and our five million dues-paying members, we thank Congressman Babin for his efforts to require ATF do their job and answer waiver requests within 60 days or provide a detailed explanation for their denial." “Gun Owners of America is very grateful for Rep. Babin’s leadership and his willingness to address this issue head on.” said Chris Stone, Director of Federal Affairs for Gun Owners of America. “Ammunition manufacturers should have the freedom and legal reassurance to produce new forms of ammunition without constant stonewalling from the ATF. H.R. 3802 holds the government accountable and prevents them from ignoring law-abiding manufactures.” Babin was joined by fifteen original cosponsors in introducing the Alternative Ammunition Manufacturing Act (H.R. 3802). The list includes Reps. Mo Brooks (R-AL), Chris Collins (R-NY), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Bill Johnson (R-OH), David Joyce (R-OH), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Jeff Miller (R-FL), Ted Poe (R-TX), Mike Rogers (R-AL), Pete Sessions (R-TX), and Ryan Zinke (R-MT).
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to pass the Default Prevention Act (H.R. 692), legislation he has cosponsored to instruct the U.S. Treasury to meet certain pressing financial commitments should the federal debt limit be reached. “By prioritizing our financial obligations, the Default Prevention Act will take away the threat of a default and ensure Social Security benefits are paid in full and on time regardless of the outcome of the debt ceiling debate,” said Rep. Babin. “This will provide much-needed certainty to seniors and make sure the focus remains on the real issue at hand, which is addressing Washington’s out-of-control spending problem. "With a $19 trillion national debt, we simply cannot afford to provide this Administration with another blank check to go on another spending spree. It’s absolutely critical that we use this opportunity to pass meaningful reforms that cut wasteful spending and put America back on a sustainable fiscal path.” Specifically, H.R. 692 takes three important steps: Guarantees that Social Security benefits continue to be paid to seniors; Ensures that the principle and interest on the national debt is paid so that there is no default; and Prohibits Members of Congress from being paid until the debt limit is resolved.
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – The Subcommittee on Space today held a hearing on the impact of the president’s budget on programs being built for a trip to Mars and other deep space destinations. Witnesses discussed NASA’s plans for future major tests and milestones of the Space Launch System (SLS) and Orion crew vehicle, as well as how the administration’s budget request affects these programs. The hearing took place a day after the Obama administration released its Journey to Mars report which contained no budget, schedule, or deadlines. Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin: “Last week was an amazing time for the space community. A major Hollywood film about the exploration of Mars debuted within days of NASA announcing a significant scientific discovery – liquid water on Mars. The coincidence of these two events garnered the public’s attention, and rightly so. Rarely does popular culture and science align in such a serendipitous fashion. The attention also prompted obvious questions from the public such as ‘How will discovering water on Mars impact future exploration?’, ‘Are we really going to Mars?’, and ‘How and when are we going to get there?’ “All told, the president’s budget has requested nearly half a billion dollars in cuts to these programs this fiscal year. This Committee’s NASA Authorization Act for 2016 and 2017 fully rejects the proposed cuts, and both the House and Senate Appropriations Committees have approved bills to do the same. Even though Congress consistently rejects the administration’s proposed cuts year-after-year, the proposed cuts still have a negative impact on the programs. The annual budget uncertainty that the Administration perpetuates impairs NASA’s ability to manage the program’s efficiently on behalf of the taxpayer.” Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas): “There should be no misunderstanding: there is bipartisan support within Congress for SLS and the Orion crew vehicle. This Committee restored the proposed cuts in our Authorization bill. And the House and the Senate Appropriations Committees restored these funds and supported SLS and Orion at the levels necessary to keep their development on track. “I want to comment on the recent handout that we have all seen by the administration called NASA’s Journey to Mars. This proposal contains no budget; it contains no schedule, no deadlines. This sounds good, but it is actually a journey to nowhere until we have that budget and we have the schedule and we have the deadlines. And I hope the administration will change its posture and decide in the future that it is actually going to support SLS and Orion and keep them on schedule because their proposals to cut SLS and Orion every single year is not helping us achieve the great goals that most Americans want to achieve in space.” The House Science Committee’s NASA Authorization Act for 2016 and 2017 sought to restore $440 million to crucial programs being developed to return U.S. astronauts to deep space destinations such as the Moon and Mars. That bill also restored funding for planetary science accounts that have been responsible for missions such as the recent Pluto fly-by, in addition to providing full funding for the other space exploration programs such as Commercial Crew and Commercial Cargo programs. The following witnesses testified at today’s hearing: Mr. Doug Cooke, Owner, Cooke Concepts and Solutions; Former Associate Administrator, Exploration Systems, NASA Mr. Dan Dumbacher, Professor of Engineering Practice, Purdue University; Former Deputy Associate Administrator, Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate, NASA Archived video of the hearing is available on the Committee’s website and YouTube.
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement after voting for House-passage of H.R. 702, to Adapt to Changing Crude Oil Market Conditions: “Lifting this outdated and unnecessary ban on crude oil exports is a win for Texas and America. It opens up billions of dollars of new economic opportunity for American companies, which will create thousands of good paying jobs. It will help to stabilize the price of energy on the world market, making sure that gasoline and electricity remain abundant and affordable for hardworking families across America. And South East Texas is uniquely positioned to be at the center of it all, with the Port of Houston and other facilities in our area uniquely suited to lead America into this new market. “Unfortunately, and predictably, the Obama Administration has threatened to veto this bipartisan bill once it passes the House and the Senate. This is the same Administration that just led the way on a deal to lift the crude export ban that has been in place on the Islamic Republic of Iran, a terrorist sponsoring regime that will use the proceeds from selling crude oil to finance terror and mayhem throughout the world. Americans deserve better treatment from their President than he is giving to terrorists in Iran, and I believe that if he vetoes this bill, we will override it.”
10.08.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s decision to withdraw from the Speaker’s race: “Going into the House Republican Conference today, I was planning to vote for Representative Daniel Webster (R-FL),” said. Rep. Babin. “I was very surprised to hear of the withdrawal from the Speaker’s race by current Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. However, this provides us with a new opportunity to unite around someone who has the vision and leadership to successfully advance a conservative agenda in the House, as well as deliver on the promises of 2010 and 2014 to change the direction of this country. The people of the 36th District of Texas have been clear that they want to see new conservative leaders in Congress and I look forward to advancing that goal.”
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) today reminded those interested in receiving a service academy nomination that all completed application packets must be returned to the Woodville Office by Wednesday, October 15, 2015. Babin also announced that candidate interviews will be held on Saturday, November 14, 2015. Please contact Rachel Iglesias at (409) 242-7132 with any questions. “One of the distinct honors of serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate exceptional young men and women to be considered for appointment to our nation’s service academies,” said Rep. Babin. “As the father of a U.S. Naval Academy graduate, I understand the significance of this process, as well as the unique impact and opportunities presented to those who attend a service academy. I look forward to nominating some of our area’s brightest as they seek to further their education and honorably serve our nation in the U.S. Military.” Application packets must include: Completed online application form (https://babin.house.gov/forms/serviceacademynomination/) Resume (no more than two pages) Typed (double-spaced), 250 word essay detailing why you want to attend a U.S. Service Academy and why you want to be commissioned as an officer in the U.S. Armed Forces Three personal recommendations (please ask each person making a recommendation to sign and date their recommendation.) Official copy of High School Transcript Official copy of College Transcript (if applicable) Official copy of SAT and/or ACT scores. These reports are in addition to the scores on your transcript.
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after voting against a short-term government spending bill that maintains taxpaying funding of Planned Parenthood: “I cannot think of a more important issue to take a stand on than protecting the lives of innocent, unborn children. There is absolutely no excuse to allowing continued taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood in light of their disgusting and illegal efforts to harvest tissue from aborted babies. Unfortunately, Congress has once-again failed to utilize its Constitutional authority to protect American taxpayers from funding this corrupt organization. It is absolutely wrong that American taxpayers are being forced to hand over their hard-earned tax dollars to the largest abortion provider in the nation. “This bill also failed to receive my support because it lacks the critical provisions needed to prevent taxpayer funds from being used to carry out the President’s unconstitutional executive amnesty actions, as well as his disastrous health care law and dangerous nuclear deal with Iran. Going forward, I encourage all my colleagues to strengthen their resolve and fight harder in defense of the American taxpayer and their priorities.”
09.28.2015	With Speaker Boehner’s resignation, it is time to turn the page and move forward. I look forward to a healthy and important debate on who is best equipped to lead the Republican Conference in the House of Representatives. Our country is in desperate need of bold, conservative leadership that fights with the passion and conviction the American people deserve. I am eager to hear from those who are seeking leadership positions on their specific plans on how we can advance a successful, conservative agenda.
09.11.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to reject the President’s nuclear agreement with Iran, because it ultimately paves the way for a nuclear-armed Iran and threatens the security and safety of the American people. Babin also joined his colleagues in the House in passing legislation that determines the President has failed to follow the law by not providing Congress the full and complete Iran nuclear agreement, including the widely reported “secret side deals”. By withholding these details, the House voted to suspend the President’s ability to lift economic sanctions that are currently levied against Iran. Babin spoke passionately on the House floor in strong opposition to the President’s deeply flawed deal with Iran, while warning his colleagues this could be the most consequential vote of their lifetime. To view the video, please click here. The transcript is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly oppose this deeply flawed, dangerous, and unacceptable deal that President Obama has struck with the Islamic Republic of Iran and its leader, Ayatollah Kihmeni. To even stand here in the People’s House of the greatest nation the world and discuss this course of action taken by the President is both shameful and embarrassing for our country. “The Islamic Republic of Iran is the world’s leading sponsor of terrorism. They have the blood of thousands of American soldiers on their hands. They lead chants of ‘Death to America’, who they call the ‘Great Satan’, and burn our flag in their streets. They declared just last week with certainty that Israel, who they call the ‘Little Satan’ will be wiped off the map in no less than 25 years. This plan allows Iran to build a nuclear bomb in no less than 15. You do the math. “The President’s deal with a terrorist nation allows them to continue their nuclear program and gives them over $150 billion to fund worldwide terrorism. A vote for this deal, with all of its dire implications for the future of our children and grandchildren, could well be the most regrettable vote that a member of Congress will ever take in his or her career.”
08.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) is currently accepting applications from young men and women of the 36th Congressional District of Texas who are seeking a nomination to the United States Naval Academy, Air Force Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, or the Military Academy at West Point. “One of the distinct honors of serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate exceptional young men and women to be considered for appointment to our nation’s service academies,” said Rep. Babin. “As the father of a U.S. Naval Academy graduate, I understand the significance of this process, as well as the unique impact and opportunities presented to those who attend a service academy. I look forward to nominating some of our area’s brightest as they seek to further their education and honorably serve our nation in the U.S. Military.” Completed application packets must be returned to Congressman Babin’s Woodville Office (100 W. Bluff Drive) by Wednesday, October 15, 2015. Candidate interviews will be held in mid-November and nominations will be announced in December. If you have any questions, please contact Rachel Iglesias in Congressman Babin’s office at (409) 242-7132. Application packets must include: • Completed online application form (https://babin.house.gov/forms/serviceacademynomination/) • Resume (no more than two pages) • Typed (double-spaced), 250 word essay detailing why you want to attend a U.S. Service Academy and why you want to be commissioned as an officer in the U.S. Armed Forces • Three personal recommendations (please ask each person making a recommendation to sign and date their recommendation.) • Official copy of High School Transcript • Official copy of College Transcript (if applicable) • Official copy of SAT and/or ACT scores. These reports are in addition to the scores on your transcript.
08.11.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to community concerns over the proposed new Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) facilities being discussed for Chambers and Liberty counties for the purpose of processing and transporting illegal aliens: “The people of Chambers and Liberty counties have a right to be concerned over the prospect of having new illegal alien processing facilities being built in their communities. There needs to be a thorough and complete discussion over the potential impact of these new facilities. I will continue working closely with the local community to ensure we get the answers and information we need regarding these proposed projects.”
07.30.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36) and Gene Green (TX-29) yesterday introduced the Waterway Safety Improvement Act (H.R. 3315) to enhance navigation and safety in our nation’s ports, including the Port of Houston. This legislation addresses longtime concerns on the Port of Houston waterways with clarifying language and by granting discretionary authority to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) — the entity in charge of Port maintenance. “The Waterway Safety Improvement Act will provide much-needed flexibility and resources to ensure that the Army Corps of Engineers can properly maintain our nation’s ports and address any safety issues in a timely manner,” said Rep. Babin. “This legislation will benefit our area tremendously and further strengthen the Port of Houston as a world leader in the maritime industry. I am proud to lead this effort with my colleague Rep. Gene Green to help improve the safety and reliability of our ports.” The USACE plays a key role in America’s well-being by keeping waterways open for navigation and commerce. Deepening and widening of waterways, such as ports and ship channels for the safe commercial waterborne traffic is a top priority for the Corps. Texas is the largest maritime state in the United States, with over 17,000 deep draft ships transiting the Port of Houston annually. Nationally, the Port of Houston ranks number one in foreign tonnage and is the second largest port in the country by all tonnage. Rep. Green said, “I am pleased to introduce the Waterway Safety Improvement Act with my colleague Rep. Brian Babin. Incidents and collisions can have a high cost on the national and local economy, and an even bigger cost on local communities and the environment. The Waterway Safety Improvement Act would enhance efficiency and navigation control by increasing the depth, width and navigation of the area, particularly in turning basins. We want to ensure the USACE has the authority to complete dredging operations under existing authorities and not have to come back to Congress every time a question arises.” “The Corps should have the flexibility to address immediate and critical safety issues that arise on busy waterways such as the Houston Ship Channel,” said Janiece Longoria, Chairman of the Port of Houston Authority. “This tool can help the Corps better improve safety and navigation efficiency on dynamic waterway systems, prevent incidents that can close waterways, and protect health and safety, as well as the economy.”
07.30.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) yesterday introduced the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314), which places an immediate suspension on allowing immigrants into the United States under the refugee resettlement program, until the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completes a thorough examination of its costs on federal, state and local governments. According to the U.S. refugee admissions database, nearly 500,000 new immigrants have come to the U.S. under the resettlement program since President Obama first took office – with the state of Texas and its taxpayers being asked to take in more than any other state. “It is extremely unsettling that the Obama Administration would continue to expand the U.S. resettlement program at such an irresponsible pace in light of our economic and national security challenges,” said Rep. Babin. “While this program may be warranted in certain situations, it is continuing at an unchecked pace. For the past decade the U.S. has been admitting roughly 70,000 new refugees a year, with little understanding of the economic and social costs on our communities. “Our legislation institutes a common sense pause in the program so that we can better understand the long-term and short-term costs that this program has on local governments, states and U.S. taxpayers. It also gives us an opportunity to examine potential national security issues related to entry and resettlement, particularly as federal law enforcement officials are increasingly concerned about home-grown terrorists."
07.23.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today to pass the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act (H.R. 3009), legislation he has cosponsored to cut off federal funding for sanctuary cities, which purposely ignore federal immigration laws and threaten the safety of our communities. “The tragic killing of Kathryn Steinle at the hands of a five-time deported criminal illegal alien in San Francisco should have never happened. Sadly, this has become too common as the federal government and cities across America refuse to enforce our immigration laws,” said Rep. Babin. “I am pleased that the House has taken action today to restrict federal funding for sanctuary cities and other localities that ignore the letter of the law and allow criminal aliens to roam free. This vote sends a clear message that these irresponsible and dangerous policies will not be tolerated. While this is an important first step, more must be done to restore the rule of law and ensure the safety and security of the American people from illegal criminal aliens.”
07.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor last night to express his outrage over the recent disclosures of Planned Parenthood’s deliberate efforts to harvest tissue from aborted babies. Babin called on Congress to immediately pass legislation he has cosponsored, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act (H.R. 3134), which prohibits taxpayer funds from going to Planned Parenthood while a full investigation is conducted into the organization’s activities. To view video of Babin’s House floor speech, please click here. Excerpts of his speech are below. “The practices described by Planned Parenthood officials on these videos are simply despicable, unspeakable and barbaric. The light-hearted tone of Dr. Deborah Nucatola, the Senior Director of Medical Services for Planned Parenthood, as she talked about how much fetal tissue parts were worth – while eating salad and drinking wine – only adds words of insult to acts of atrocity. “A second video released shows Dr. Mary Gatter, another high ranking Planned Parenthood official, again discussing fetal tissue payments. Gatter describes using a “less crunchy” technique to yield as many body parts as possible – for more money to buy herself a Lamborghini. This is inhumane, and as a health care provider myself, I condemn it in the strongest terms. I hope the relevant medical licensing boards in their states disqualify her, and Dr. Nucatola, from ever practicing medicine again. “It is a national disgrace that taxpayer dollars account for 41% of Planned Parenthood’s revenue, and that over the past 3 years the organization has received $1.2 billion in funding from Medicaid. All this for an organization that performs more than 300,000 abortions a year. American families should not be forced to pay the operating costs and salaries for abortion businesses, much less one that engages in fetal tissue trafficking. “As an original cosponsor of Rep. Black’s Defund Planned Parenthood Act we are working to prohibit federal funds from going to Planned Parenthood or any entity that performs abortions. I call upon House and Senate leaders to allow for its immediate consideration and attach it to any “must pass” bill.”
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-Texas) released the following statements on Tuesday’s Pluto flyby of the New Horizons spacecraft. Chairman Smith: “These are the events that catch our imaginations and remind us why we must continue investing in planetary science and NASA’s mission of space exploration. Planetary science missions give us a closer look at our solar system and help lead the way for human missions.” Space Subcommittee Chairman Babin: “This exciting feat demonstrates our limitless appetite to know what lies beyond Earth and furthers our hopes of sending pioneers deeper into space. Our investments in planetary science and space exploration press the limits of technology, nurture our inquisitiveness and drive innovation here on Earth.”
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor today to condemn President Obama’s announced “nuclear deal” with Iran, which falls short of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran and puts the security of the American people at risk. To view video of Babin’s House floor speech, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “President Obama has made a ‘deal’ with the Islamic Republic of Iran – a terrorist regime that regularly leads chants of ‘Death to America,’ burns our flag, and has killed hundreds of American soldiers. “In April, Energy Secretary Moniz said inspectors would have ‘anywhere, anytime access’ to Iran’s civil and military sites. Unfortunately, this deal sets forth no such requirement. Under the deal, inspectors can only ask for permission to access Iranian military sites, like their fortified underground facility in Fordow. “Decisions about access will be left to Iran’s leaders, who have said that inspectors will not be permitted to inspect military sites, even ‘in their dreams.’ “This deal doesn’t require the release of the American hostages being held by Iran’s government. It has no acknowledgement by Iran of Israel’s right to exist. These provisions would signal that Iran is serious about changing their ways. But they have said no. And that’s why Congress should reject this bad deal. I yield back.”
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Subcommittee on Space held a hearing to examine the current status of the International Space Station (ISS) and evaluate the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) plans for dealing with operational and maintenance challenges. Witnesses at the hearing also discussed the status of the ISS partnership, how NASA is utilizing the ISS to enable future deep space exploration, and the Administration’s request to extend ISS operations to 2024. Chairman Babin: “From advances in our understanding of human health and performance to our use of new materials to the utilization of robotics and satellites, the benefits we receive from the ISS are many and diverse. In addition to the benefits back on Earth, the ISS offers the conditions necessary to prepare and develop critical technologies for deep space and long-duration human spaceflight missions. “This Committee has a responsibility to ensure that the American taxpayers are getting all that they can from every dollar they send to the Federal Government. I believe this investment is worthwhile and that the benefits far outweigh the cost. Support for the ISS and its operations and utilization is not a partisan issue, it is an American issue. I look forward to working with my friends on the other side of the aisle and our partners in the space industry to understand how we can all meet the operational challenges facing the ISS program.” Since 2013, the ISS program has experienced a number of challenges. Astronauts have experienced water leaks in their suits three times, with one incident occurring during a spacewalk. On April 26, 2013, an unmanned Russian Progress cargo vehicle damaged a laser radar reflector when docking with the ISS. On January 14, 2015, a false alarm of an ammonia leak caused the crew to retreat into the Russian segment. Cargo supply missions have also faced challenges. On October 28, 2014, an Orbital Science’s unmanned cargo launch failed just after launch. On April 28, 2015, a separate Russian Progress cargo vehicle failed to reach the ISS. On June 7, 2015, a planned re-boost of the ISS using a docked Progress vehicle failed but eventually was successful after troubleshooting. On June 10, 2015, a visiting Soyuz vehicle unexpectedly fired its engines without being commanded. Most recently, on June 28, 2015, a SpaceX unmanned cargo launch failed as well. Members and witnesses noted these challenges at Friday’s hearing and pointed to the program’s effective response as a testament to NASA, ISS partners, and contractors. The following witnesses testified today: Mr. Bill Gerstenmaier, Associate Administrator, Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate, NASA Mr. John Elbon, Vice President and General Manager, Space Exploration, The Boeing Company The Honorable Paul K. Martin, Inspector General, NASA Ms. Shelby Oakley, Acting Director, Acquisition and Sourcing Management, Government Accountability Office Dr. James A. Pawelczyk, Associate Professor of Physiology and Kinesiology, The Pennsylvania State University For additional information on today’s hearing, including witness testimony and the archived webcast, visit the Science, Space, and Technology Committee website.
06.29.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), Brian Babin (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2923, the Maritime and Energy Workforce Technical Training Enhancement Act, which would create two new grant programs through the Department of Energy (DOE) to help train workers in the maritime and energy sectors. The first grant program establishes a maritime and energy technical training grant that provides financial support for workforce training at community colleges and four-year universities in these two fields. The second program would allow for the establishment up to 10 Centers of Excellence around the country that would focus on expanding workforce training opportunities and assist with job placement. “In our District, we have a surplus of maritime and energy jobs, and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” Green said. “Industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” Olson said, “The Houston region is home to the Port and the thousands of maritime jobs looking to be filled, this bill provides an important opportunity to help match our economic needs with well-trained employees. Our local colleges are filling an important need with training programs and this bill will help that process. It’s been great to work with my Houston colleagues to strengthen our workforce and by extension our economy.” “Our area’s economic livelihood depends on the maritime industry,” said Babin. “It’s critical that our students have access to the resources and training they need to meet the needs of these high-skilled jobs. We have excellent institutions ready to provide and expand on this valuable training. This important bill will grow and strengthen these opportunities to help ensure our students are properly prepared to work in our area’s leading maritime industry.” H.R. 2923 has two other original cosponsors, Reps. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Reid Ribble (R-WI).
06.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Space Subcommittee Chairman Brian Babin (R-Texas) released the following statements in response to Sunday's unsuccessful ISS resupply launch attempt from Cape Canaveral, Florida. Chairman Smith: "I share the disappointment of the thousands who worked in support of today's launch attempt and millions of Americans who care about our nation's success in space. As we learn more about the circumstances surrounding today's launch, we must ensure the safe and timely supply of the International Space Station." Space Subcommittee Chairman Babin: "I am saddened by today’s unfortunate loss of a SpaceX cargo resupply mission to the International Space Station. These endeavors are extremely difficult – but they are well worth the investment of America’s time and resources. I am eager to learn more about what happened and how it can be fixed to strengthen and advance our commercial cargo program. The Space Subcommittee’s next hearing to evaluate the status of the International Space Station is scheduled for July 10th at 9am.
06.26.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling to strike down state marriage laws and require all 50 states to recognize same-sex marriage: “As a strong supporter of traditional marriage and a firm believer in state sovereignty, I am deeply disappointed that five members of the U.S. Supreme Court have over-ruled tens of millions of Americans – including millions in the State of Texas – who have voted to enact state statutes and state Constitutional amendments to define marriage as between one man and one woman. Congress should take immediate action to restore each state’s ability to determine their own marriage laws, instead of allowing a federal court to decide such an important issue. We must also take action to protect individuals and institutions with deeply held religious convictions on marriage to ensure that they do not face discrimination because of their convictions. "Traditional marriage has been under assault as courts and some state legislatures have sought to both redefine marriage as something other than between one man and one woman and to penalize and discriminate against those who have religious and conscience convictions against the redefinition of marriage. This Court decision sets the government on a collision course with the religious freedoms guaranteed in the First Amendment of the Constitution. As a strong and unwavering advocate for protecting the traditional definition of marriage, I have cosponsored the following legislation and will continue to advocate for bringing this legislation before the Congress for a vote." Protecting the Rights of those with Religious Convictions Against Coercion by the Government – Original cosponsor of H.R. 2802 to protect churches, Christian schools and colleges, and business-owners from being coerced by the government to act against their religious conviction in regards to acceptance of same-sex marriage. Defining Marriage in the United States as Only Between One Man and One Woman Cosponsor of H.J. Res 32 the Marriage Protection Constitutional Amendment. Protecting the Rights of States to Define Traditional Marriage – Cosponsor of H.R. 825 the State Defense of Marriage Act Stripping Federal Courts of Jurisdiction to Hear Cases Related to Marriage – Original cosponsor of H.R. 1968 Restrain the Judges on Marriage Act of 2015
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Obama Administration’s re-write of the law to hand out tens of billions of dollars in Obamacare subsidies to those who were ineligible: “The Supreme Court’s decisions to ignore the letter of the law and essentially re-write it to accommodate the Obama Administration is an outrageous usurpation of legislative authority. I agree whole heartedly with Justice Scalia’s determination that the Court’s actions are ‘absurd’ and that ‘words no longer have meaning’ under this ruling. With the Court’s decision, more Americans will be forced into an expensive and dictatorial government-run health care system that has put government bureaucrats between patients and their doctor, driven up the cost of medical care at record levels, denied millions of Americans access to their local health care provider, and cut the incomes of millions of Americans. “With Texans facing another double digit increase in health care premiums under Obamacare next year, I remain more committed than ever to fighting for a full and complete repeal of Obamacare, and ridding the nation of this disastrous law. As I have said before, we must dismantle this law one rotten tooth at a time so that health care freedom can be restored to the American people.” To view Justice Scalia’s dissent in King v. Burwell, please click here.
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after introducing the SCOTUScare Act (H.R. 2905), which finally eliminates their exemption and requires all U.S. Supreme Court Justices and their employees to sign up for Obamacare: “As the Supreme Court continues to ignore the letter of the law, it’s important that these six individuals understand the full impact of their decisions on the American people. That’s why I introduced the SCOTUScare Act to require the Supreme Court and all of its employees to sign up for Obamacare. By eliminating their exemption from Obamacare, they will see firsthand what the American people are forced to live with!” To view the full text of the SCOTUScare Act, please click here.
06.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) announced today that he has introduced the House companion bill (H.R. 2825) to U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas)’s Immigration Slush Fund Elimination Act (S. 1593), which prohibits the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from redirecting fees it collected to process legal immigration to fund the President’s illegal executive amnesty. This legislation would cut off the DHS’ ability to self-fund and finance the President’s executive amnesty and any other illegal immigration programs. “Texas is leading the fight against President Obama's illegal executive actions on immigration – and I am proud to join Senator Cruz in furthering these efforts by cutting off the President’s amnesty slush fund and restoring congressional oversight,” said Rep. Babin. “While the United States is a nation of immigrants, we are also a nation of laws. It is wrong to divert the fees paid by those immigrating legally to the United States to pay for amnesty for those who came here illegally – and our bill puts an end to that practice.” “America has always been a land of refuge and opportunity for those seeking freedom, and we should champion legal immigration,” said Sen. Cruz. “Ronald Reagan referred to legal immigrants, immigrants like my father, as Americans by choice. The federal government should not be in the business of looting the wallets of those who followed the law and came here legally to fund the President’s illegal and unconstitutional amnesty. This bill will cut off DHS’s credit card and put Congress back in charge of funding the agencies responsible for immigration. I’m proud to work with Congressman Babin on this legislation.”
06.17.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36), Lou Barletta (PA-11) and John Ratcliffe (TX-04) today introduced the No Office Space for Executive Amnesty Act to prohibit the Obama Administration from leasing a new $7.8 million, 11-story building near Washington, DC, that’s being planned to house thousands of new government employees hired to process the President’s illegal executive actions on immigration. “President Obama’s decision to grant amnesty through unilateral executive action makes a mockery of our laws and it must be stopped on all levels,” said Babin. “As we await further action by the federal courts, this legislation will ensure taxpayer funds can no longer be wasted on renting expensive office space for government bureaucrats to carry out the President’s illegal executive amnesty actions. This further protects your tax dollars while advancing our fight to stop the President’s amnesty and restore the rule of law.” “Although federal judges have blocked President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty for the time being, it is still important that we do all that we can to prevent its implementation. The president is trying to introduce five million more competitors into an already-tight job market at a time when 20 million Americans cannot find work,” said Barletta, who is Chairman of the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “The president has made clear that he intends to ignore Congress in his quest to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants, and we must be equally as determined to exercise our Constitutional power of the purse to stop that from happening.” “The president severely overstepped his constitutional authority when he attempted to legislate from the Oval Office,” said Ratcliffe. “His policies and programs on immigration are not what my constituents have asked for. They sent me to Washington to stand for the constitution, not to rubber stamp its abuse. Not one dime of taxpayer funds should be used to fund actions that side step the constitution. This includes leasing buildings for the purposes of supporting his policies that would provide amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants.”
06.16.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) today introduced legislation (H.R. 2757) to prohibit any taxpayer funds from being voluntarily donated to the United Nations (U.N.) or U.N. related agencies. “With more than an $18 trillion national debt, its past time that the United States stops financing an international body that routinely opposes our priorities and values,” said Rep. Babin. “The United Nations continues to promote issues that run counter to our Constitutional rights and national sovereignty – including Global Warming initiatives, the Small Arms Trade Treaty and initiatives that weaken the security of our close-ally Israel. “With over $4 billion in U.S. tax dollars going to United Nations programs each year, our bill will help make sure that we aren’t burdening future generations with more debt to fund inefficient, ineffective and unaffordable programs that too often undermine our direct national interests.”
06.08.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) announced today that he has been appointed by Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) to serve as the Chairman of the Space Subcommittee. Rep. Babin, whose district includes NASA’s Johnson Space Center, will now have a leading role in Congressional efforts to help refocus NASA’s mission to ensure America is once again the world leader in human space exploration. “It is an honor for me to serve as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and continue working with my colleagues on the Committee to strengthen NASA’s core exploration mission, create an environment for commercial space ventures to thrive, and build a clear vision for America’s space program,” said Rep. Babin. “I believe we are on the verge of significant space advancements and I look forward to doing all I can to create an environment for success.” “The Science Committee has already been hard at work this Congress promoting legislation that advances America’s space interests,” said Chairman Smith. “I am pleased to welcome Representative Babin as Chairman of the Space Subcommittee. Congressmen Babin has proven to be a knowledgeable and capable member of this Committee, and I look forward to working with him in his new leadership role.” “We’re extremely pleased on the recent announcement that Congressman Brian Babin, DDS, has been appointed chairman of the Space Subcommittee on the Science, Space & Technology Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives,” said Bob Mitchell, President, Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership. “This appointment means a great deal to this community, as well as all of NASA. It’s very meaningful to have one of our own chair this important subcommittee. We all look forward to working with Dr. Babin on the significant issues which face NASA.”
05.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) voiced his strong objections today to the final rule issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and US Army Corps of Engineers establishing new regulations for what constitutes “Waters of the United States.” These agencies established new definitions granting themselves unprecedented authority to regulate virtually all water flows in America, including ditches and farmland ponds. “It’s deeply disturbing that the Obama Administration would move forward with this outrageous and egregious expansion of federal government in the face of such widespread opposition,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “The fact that the EPA thinks a tire rut in a field should be regulated as a ‘navigable stream’ tells us all we need to know about the bureaucrats behind this federal power grab. Not only does it defy logic and common sense, it tramples private property rights. I will continue doing all I can to roll back this government overreach.” “More than one million public comments were filed on this rule, and nearly 2/3 of the unique, substantive comments requested EPA to withdraw or significantly modify the rule,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA). “It was even recently reported that the EPA lobbied supporters to pack the docket with favorable comments, making a mockery of the regulatory process.” On May 12, Babin voted for House passage of the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732), which passed the House with strong bipartisan support (261-155). H.R. 1732 would stop the EPA-Corps rule and require the agencies to restart the rulemaking process – this time consulting with state and local governments and other stakeholders to take into account their concerns. More information on H.R. 1732 can be found here.
05.21.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House passage of the SPACE Act (H.R. 2262), legislation he cosponsored that advances commercial space through encouraging private sector investment, creating more stable and predictable regulatory conditions, and improving safety. The SPACE ACT, which is widely supported in the space industry, will advance U.S. leadership in space and foster new technologies through commercial development. Babin spoke on the House floor in support of the SPACE Act and urged his colleagues to join him in voting to secure America’s standing as the home of commercial space exploration. To view the video, please click here. Below are excerpts of his remarks: “Let’s face it, in any field, no American entrepreneur is going to invest billions of dollars of their own money where there is regulatory uncertainty. The SPACE Act of 2015 creates a regulatory framework and provides certainty for these privately financed endeavors to take the next steps. “This legislation will bolster thousands of high-tech American jobs -- building a stronger economy, advancing technological leadership, and strengthening our nation’s industrial base. America has always prospered because we have not stood in the way of visionaries but rather found a way to enable them to take a chance and succeed on their own. “A vote for this bill is a vote to ignite the flame of commercial space and propel the American entrepreneurial spirit beyond our world and into the final frontier. Passing this bill tells the world that America is the home for commercial space.”
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted this week for House-passage of the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 2048), which ends the National Security Agency (NSA)’s unconstitutional bulk collection of data from U.S. citizens, while preserving the ability to lawfully obtain critical information from suspected terrorists. The USA FREEDOM Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 338 to 88. Nearly identical legislation (S. 1123) has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Mike Lee (R-UT) and Ted Cruz (R-TX). “As recently seen in Garland, Texas, we face a dangerous and desperate enemy bent on killing Americans and destroying our way of life,” said Rep. Babin. “The USA FREEDOM Act ends the NSA’s unlawful data collection program and brings much-needed transparency and accountability to government agencies. This measure will ensure the protection of our personal civil liberties, while providing our intelligence officials with the necessary tools they need to monitor the threats posed by those who are seeking to cause us harm. I am hopeful that Senators Lee and Cruz can continue this effort in the Senate to ensure both the protection of our citizens and their Constitutional rights.”
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) released the following statement after voting against the Senate-passed Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (H.R. 1191): “Allowing a nuclear-armed Iran would be the worst national security mistake of our lifetime. In my view, this bill falls short of what is needed to prevent a nuclear Iran. I cannot support any effort that condones President Obama’s appeasement to the Iranian regime – nor can I support a measure that limits the ability of Congress to stop a bad deal with Iran. “This bill could have included critical amendments to require Iran to submit to full intrusive inspections of all their civil and military nuclear sites, fully recognize Israel’s right to exist, and give Congress the final say on whether to approve this deal – not just offer a resolution of disapproval which President Obama can easily veto. Most of these amendments would have passed with strong, bipartisan support, but they were not even considered at the President’s request. My support for a nuclear-free Iran could not be stronger, but when these important provisions were rejected, the bill lost my support. “On May 1st the House unanimously adopted my amendment to impose a restriction on the ability of the Obama Administration to use federal funds in any deal with Iran that falls short of requiring the country to end its pursuit and development of nuclear weapons. I made it clear that we must draw a line when it comes to negotiating with Iran. Unfortunately, H.R. 1191 fails to address these concerns. You already have the Obama Administration interpreting the nuclear deal framework one way and Iran the opposite. That should be a clear warning that we are heading down the dangerous path of a nuclear-armed Iran. I will do everything I can to derail this situation.”
05.13.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House-passage of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), legislation he cosponsored, which prohibits the abortion of unborn children after twenty weeks. The legislation was endorsed by a large number of pro-life organizations, including National Right to Life. Babin spoke on the House floor in support of this legislation and urged his colleagues to join him in voting to protect innocent life. To view the video, please click here. The transcript is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. This bill takes an important step to protect innocent life. Scientific evidence shows that unborn babies have the capacity to experience pain after 20 weeks. Ending these lives through abortion is both a unconscionable and inhumane. “As Members of Congress – it is our duty to protect those who are defenseless. Our bill affirms the humanity of the unborn while curbing the inhumanity of abortion. As one of seven children, with five children of my own and grandfather of twelve, I ask my colleagues to support this pro-life bill.”
05.12.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House-passage of the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732), which stops the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from issuing its flawed “Waters of the United States” rule that gives the federal government unprecedented authority to regulate virtually all water flows in America, including ditches and farmland ponds. “The EPA’s outrageous attempt to drastically expand its regulatory authority to cover tire ruts and farmland ponds represents a new low for this out-of-touch and runaway agency,” said Rep. Babin. “These unilateral actions undermine personal property rights and the well-being of our Texas communities. I am pleased to support this bipartisan legislation to turn back the EPA’s blatant federal power grab. It’s time the Obama Administration listens to the concerns of the American public and withdraws this misguided proposal.” Rep. Babin is an original cosponsor of the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732). H.R. 1732 requires the agencies to restart the rulemaking process, this time consulting with state and local governments and other stakeholders to take into account their concerns and applying some common sense. More information on H.R. 1732 can be found here.
05.07.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) today marked the 64th annual National Day of Prayer by sharing his personal reflections and prayers for our nation. To watch the video, please click here. The transcript is as follows: “Today is a special day – as millions of Americans join together in prayer for our nation and its leaders. Since the first call to prayer in 1775, when the Continental Congress asked the colonies to pray for wisdom in forming a nation, the call to prayer has continued through our history – including President Lincoln’s designation of April 30, 1863, as a “Day of National Humiliation, Fasting and Prayer. Then in 1952, President Truman signed a resolution officially declaring an annual National Day of Prayer. It was later amended by President Reagan to permanently set our National Day of Prayer on the first Thursday of every May. “On this day each year we pause and put ourselves humbly before God, seeking His guidance for our nation and His grace and mercy upon us as a people. This year’s theme – ‘Lord Hear Our Cry’ – speaks to us all. I believe Scripture reminds us of the manner in which we are to come before our Lord in prayer. We are to do so in humility. 2 Chronicles 7:14, reminds us, ‘If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land.’ “It is in that spirit of humility, that we join together today. Seeking the mercy and grace of our Lord, knowing that what we really deserve is judgment. We should be thankful, now more than ever, that our God is a God of mercy and grace, and we come before him today asking for his blessing. We live in trying times here at home and abroad, but in many respects we always have since the birth of the United States. I implore you to remember that we serve a God that is all-powerful and is beyond the limits of humankind. With these challenges there may be a temptation to despair, recognizing what is beyond our abilities to fix. And, that may be the case. But rather than despair, we should turn to prayer. That is what we are doing today. “None of us are perfect; we all have limitations and shortcomings. To those of us who are Christians, the Bible reminds us that we serve a God of mercy, a God of grace and a God of immeasurable compassion. Today, we come humbly before him in prayer. The National Prayer Day is an annual reminder for us to be in prayer for our nation, our leaders and our military members. It gives us the opportunity in this season of uncertainty to be reminded that the Lord hears our cries. So today I join you in solemn pray for our nation which has been blessed beyond measure. I also humbly ask for your prayers as I seek to serve you with integrity in the U.S. Congress. God Bless Texas and God Bless the United States of America.”
05.04.2015	Deer Park, TX – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) held an open house on Monday at his Deer Park District Office to welcome constituents and highlight the many services offered by his congressional office. Babin explained to the crowd that providing quality constituent services is one of his top priorities and that he has an experienced staff ready to assist local residents. “I want our constituents to know that we are here to serve them in any way we can,” said Rep. Babin. “Whether someone needs help with a federal agency, are trying to find information on federal grants, or are considering applying to a military service academy, our congressional office is here to help. We work under an open door policy and we welcome any opportunity to assist our constituents and support our local communities.” Constituents needing help with Social Security, Medicare, veterans benefits, disability issues, or any other federal program, can visit the Deer Park District Office at 203 Ivy Avenue, Suite 600, Deer Park, TX 77536, or call at (832) 780-0966. For more information, please visit www.babin.house.gov.
05.01.2015	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives last night approved an amendment offered by Rep. Brian Babin to prohibit nuclear nonproliferation funds from being used in contracts with Iran unless the country is required to stop the pursuit and development of nuclear weapons. Babin’s amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations Act (H.R. 2028) passed unanimously by voice vote. To watch the speech, please click here. The Babin amendment to the Department of Energy’s Defense Department nuclear nonproliferation program states very clearly that, “None of the funds …may be made available to enter into new contracts with, or new agreements for Federal assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran except for contracts or agreements that require the Islamic Republic of Iran to cease the pursuit, acquisition, and development of nuclear weapons technology.” "This is one more effort among many that is needed to help us rein in an Administration that seems fully committed to signing a bad deal with Iran. That deal would, in my view, lead the world down the dangerous path to a nuclear Iran," said Rep. Babin. “Congress must do everything it can to stop a bad deal with Iran and my amendment is one more tool in our toolbag to help us do just that." The Energy and Water Appropriations Act (H.R. 2028) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 240-177. To view the Babin amendment, please click here.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved an amendment offered by Rep. Brian Babin to end the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)’s abused Appraised Value Offer program. Ending this program ensures that these funds remain available to care for veterans rather than being spent on expensive relocation packages for VA bureaucrats. Below are excerpts of Babin’s speech on the House floor in support of his amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 2029). To watch the full speech, please click here. “Under the Appraised Value Offer program, the VA spent nearly $300,000 in taxpayer money to move a VA employee 140 miles - from Washington DC to Philadelphia,” said Rep. Babin. That’s $300,000 that could have been used to care for numerous deserving veterans who have served this nation in uniform, but instead was wasted on relocating a single VA government bureaucrat. “Unfortunately, this is just another disturbing example of the lack of transparency and accountability at the VA. The folks at the VA are already under scrutiny for their shocking failure to properly care for veterans – and to now spend $300,000 to move one employee – it is absolutely abusive. Clearly, the VA cannot be trusted to exercise common sense with this program and it is time to end it.” Background: Washington Times: House chairman blasts VA relocation payments as ‘scheme’ Daily Caller: Congressman Calls for End to Federal Housing ‘Scheme’ That Netted Official A $288K Bonus The Blaze: Here’s How Taxpayers Are Helping Senior Government Officials Sell Their Homes at Inflated Prices
04.28.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) on Saturday hosted an awards ceremony at Space Center Houston to honor the participants of his 2015 Congressional Art Competition. Babin was joined by NASA Astronaut Kevin Ford in announcing Crosby High School’s Tsz Kwan Ho as this year’s first place winner. Due to her temporary status in the United States as an exchange student, Tsz will be unable to attend the national ceremony in Washington, and has conceded top honors to Deer Park’s Keagan Denney. “Thank you to all the students who participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Rep. Babin. “I could not be more impressed with the level of talent and skill displayed by these young men and women. Congratulations to both Tsz Kwan Ho and Keagan Denney for their outstanding pieces of artwork. Keagan’s inspiring depiction of space exploration will represent the people of our district proudly in the U.S. Capitol.” Keagan’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year, and he will receive two roundtrip tickets to Washington, compliments of Southwest Airlines, to attend the national Congressional Art Competition ceremony. For more information on the Congressional Art Competition, please click here. Congressional Art Competition Winners: 1st Place: Keagan Denney, Abeka Academy, Deer Park 2nd Place: JoAnn Chung, Clear Lake High School 3rd Place: Sara Zare, Deer Park High School-South Honorable Mentions: • Mikaela Gonzalez, Buna High School • Kady Wagnone, Crosby High School • Jenna Heiselbetz, Buna High School Click here for a gallery of pictures from the awards ceremony.
04.21.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today celebrating San Jacinto Day, which marks the day Texas won its independence at the Battle of San Jacinto: “On this day in 1836, Texas officially secured its independence as General Sam Houston’s Texian army decisively defeated Mexican President Santa Anna and his forces at the Battle of San Jacinto. As we celebrate 179 years of freedom, let us remember these brave Texas heroes who conquered Mexican forces while famously shouting ‘remember the Alamo, remember the Goliad!.’ I proudly join Texans everywhere today in celebrating our independence and the freedoms and liberties we enjoy in the Lone Star State.”
04.16.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House-passage of two important bills that cut taxes and provide certainty for Texas taxpayers, the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act (H.R. 622) and the Death Tax Repeal Act (H.R. 1105). “Hardworking Texas taxpayers should not be punished for living in a tax-friendly state like Texas,” said Rep. Babin. “Permanently restoring the sales tax deduction will create a level-playing field for Texas taxpayers and save Texans roughly a billion dollars a year. I am proud to support this legislation, as well as a bipartisan bill to fully repeal the death tax. The death tax is an unfair tax that penalizes Texas farmers and ranchers who want to hand down their small business to the next generation. These two bipartisan bills provide critical tax relief to Texas taxpayers and ensure their hard-earned dollars stay in our communities rather than in Washington’s coffers.” Additional information on these two bills: • H.R. 622, the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act would permanently allow citizens of states like Texas that do not levy an income tax to instead deduct their sales taxes from their federal tax obligation. Since 2004, the state sales tax deduction has allowed Texas taxpayers to save more than $10 billion. • H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act would permanently repeal the estate tax, also known as the death tax, which is a 40 percent tax on an individual's transfer of assets in excess of an exemption amount to the next generation at the time of his or her death. In many cases, this "estate" is a small business or family farm, and a death tax bill can make a families loss even more devastating.
04.15.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor today in support of a series of House-passed bills aimed at protecting hard-working taxpayers and holding IRS agency officials accountable. To view video of Babin’s House floor speech, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, today is Tax Day – bringing us another painful reminder of our broken federal tax code which is being enforced at the heavy and many times unfair hands of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). “Simply put, American taxpayers are sick and tired of this out-of-control agency. The IRS has grown too large, too powerful, too aggressive, and too involved in the everyday lives of the American people. “Today the House will pass a series of bills to end this abuse and we invite the U.S. Senate and President to join us. Our bills will protect hard-working taxpayers and hold IRS employees accountable. “We create a Taxpayer Bill of Rights – ensuring American taxpayers are treated with the respect they deserve. We will take steps to end the politicization of the IRS which abusively and illegally targeted conservative American citizens. “From lost emails to refusing to testify before Congress, the IRS abuses must end. I urge my colleagues to support these common-sense bills to bring transparency and accountability to this runaway agency. Thank you, and I yield back.”
03.26.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) spoke on the House floor today to wish NASA Astronaut Scott Kelly the best as he prepares to make history tomorrow when he embarks on a year-long mission to the International Space Station. Babin, who represents the Johnson Space Center in Congress, previously met with Scott Kelly several times to discuss his upcoming mission. To view video of Babin’s House floor speech, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to draw the American people’s attention to NASA Astronaut Scott Kelly as he prepares to make history tomorrow when he embarks on a year-long mission to the International Space Station. “As the proud representative of Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Kelly several times to discuss his historic mission. This will mark the first time an American has spent an entire year continuously in space. “On the eve of this important moment – I’d like to thank Mr. Kelly for his heroic commitment, leadership and dedication to advancing America’s human space flight program. “His mission to the International Space Station provides a tremendous boost to our human space flight program while furthering our understanding of the effects of the longer-term exposure to weightlessness has on the body. This understanding will pave the way for crewed missions to Mars. “On behalf of a proud American public, Scott, we wish you all the best. Thank you, and I yield back.”
03.19.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) today introduced his first bill, the No Taxpayer Bailouts for Unsustainable State and Local Pensions Act (H.R. 1476), which prohibits the U.S. Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve from offering any sort of bailout to a state or local government pension system. Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04), a prominent conservative voice in Congress, joined Rep. Babin as the bill’s lead co-sponsor. “Since arriving in Congress, my office has been briefed extensively on the strong health of the pension systems in Harris County and throughout Texas,” said Congressman Babin. “Sadly, that’s not the case across the country. We’ve seen reports about other states and municipalities that are on an unsustainable course that threatens the retirement savings of their enrollees. It is the responsibility of the state and local governments that sponsor such plans for their employees to fund them. It is not the responsibility of the citizens of Texas to bail them out for their poor decisions. Our bill makes it clear that they will not get a bailout from the American taxpayer.” “States that make their own problems should be responsible for fixing their own problems," said Congressman McClintock. “We should not export their folly to the federal level, which is exactly what H.R. 1476 protects our nation from. This bill is long overdue, and I’m proud to cosponsor it.” NOTE: The full text of the bill is attached. To view Rep. Babin’s video announcing the introduction of H.R. 1476, please click here.
03.11.2015	Houston, TX – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) personally surveyed the damage and response today to the Houston Ship Channel collision, which occurred Monday within Babin’s Congressional District. Babin was provided with an aerial survey and briefing by U.S. Coast Guard Capt. Brian Penoyer, who is overseeing the response. Babin offered his steadfast support and commitment to Capt. Penoyer and all those involved in cleaning up and reopening the channel. “Since this unfortunate incident occurred Monday, I have been in close contact with the Port of Houston, our local mayors, and the U.S. Coast Guard,” said Congressman Babin. “I was glad to have had the opportunity today to personally survey the incident and response efforts. I believe the situation is being handled well and I am pleased with the progress being made towards reopening the ship channel. I commend U.S. Coast Guard Capt. Penoyer and the entire response team for their leadership and priority on public safety. I look forward to working closely with everyone involved to ensure that they have everything they need in terms of federal support so that they can safely and quickly reopen the channel.”
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint meeting of Congress: “As a freshman member of Congress, I am pleased to have had the opportunity to hear directly from Prime Minister Netanyahu about the serious threats facing our close ally Israel. We must remain united in our opposition to a nuclear-armed Iran and the growing threat of radical Islam. Prime Minister Netanyahu rightly described what is at stake with Iran and it should serve as a wake-up call to the Obama Administration. I share his deep frustration and concern with the current negotiations surrounding Iran’s nuclear capability. During these difficult times of uncertainty, it is critical that we stand together as one voice with our friends and allies in Israel.”
02.24.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after President Obama vetoed a bipartisan bill to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline: “President Obama’s decision to veto the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline only further demonstrates how out of touch he is with the American people. For pure political reasons, President Obama has put liberal special interests ahead of those of hardworking Americans. This bipartisan bill would generate thousands of good-paying jobs and make America less dependent on Middle East oil. With the vast majority of Americans supporting its construction, I remain fully committed to seeing Keystone move forward and supporting other common-sense efforts to help grow our economy.”
02.17.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to a U.S. Federal judge’s decision in Texas to temporarily block President Obama’s executive amnesty actions: “Today’s ruling is a major victory in our fight to restore the rule of law in the United States of America. President Obama’s decision to grant amnesty through unilateral executive action makes a mockery of our laws. We are a nation of immigrants, but as we are reminded by this court decision, we are also a nation of laws and the President cannot act alone. This court decision is an important first step, but more must be done to restore the rule of law. We need to secure our borders first and foremost, and I will continue to fight for border security as the first step to address our nation's broken immigration system.”
02.11.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after voting to send a bipartisan bill approving the Keystone XL Pipeline to President Obama’s desk: “I am proud to vote to approve the Keystone XL pipeline and officially send this widely supported bill to the President’s desk. For the past six years, President Obama has needlessly delayed the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline – costing the American people thousands of new jobs and an affordable source of energy. But now the President faces a clear choice. Either he listens to the American people and signs this bipartisan bill or he vetoes it and continues to put politics above what is good for all Americans. I call on the President to do the right thing and sign this common-sense, pro-jobs bill and approve the Keystone XL pipeline.”
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House passage of H.R. 596, legislation he cosponsored to fully repeal Obamacare. To view video of Rep. Babin’s House floor speech on H.R. 596, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 596 – legislation that I have cosponsored to fully repeal Obamacare. “My constituents sent me to Washington to repeal this disastrous law and that is what we are doing today. “As a health care provider myself for 38 years, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating effects of Obamacare and how it undermines the doctor-patient relationship. “It’s costing us jobs and work hours and has led to millions of Americans losing the health plans they had and wanted to keep. “Restoring the patient’s right to choose a plan they want and can afford is just plain common sense. “Our bill does this by repealing Obamacare and replacing it with free-market solutions. “We put America on a path toward patient-focused care rather than government-directed care. The traditional doctor-patient relationship would be restored. “Let’s show the American people we are listening and rid the nation of this terrible law and replace it with policies that work. Thank you and I yield back.”
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) shared his deep and personal appreciation today for Chris Kyle and his family as Texas recognizes “Chris Kyle Day,” as recently declared by Texas Governor Greg Abbott. Rep. Babin got to know Chris Kyle through his son, Leif Babin, who served as Chris’ platoon commander during the Iraq War. “Chris Kyle is a real national hero and true role model for our country,” said Rep. Brian Babin. “He represents the very best America has to offer and I am proud to have known him. As we pause to honor him today, we must also thank his family – his wife Taya, their children, his parents Wayne and Deb, and his brother Jeff and his wife Amy – for Chris' outstanding service and sacrifice to our country. I also commend Governor Abbott for recognizing Chris with such an important honor.”
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal: “While I am not surprised, I am nonetheless disappointed that the President’s budget calls for record taxes, spending and debt. His budget never balances, includes $2.1 trillion in higher taxes and another $8.5 trillion in debt. This is the wrong path for America. The right path is one towards a balanced budget and a healthy economy. We need common sense solutions that end wasteful government spending, reduce the national debt and repeal inefficient and ineffective government regulations.”
01.28.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House passage of H.R. 351, the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, which cuts through government red tape to help expedite the approval of liquefied natural gas [LNG] exports. To view video of Rep. Babin’s House floor speech on H.R. 351, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 351 – the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act. “America’s energy producers and the tens of thousands of Americans they employ stand ready to meet the demand for a reliable and secure source of natural gas from America and the world. “They’ve completed their reviews, passed their tests and are ready to get to work. But there is one BIG problem. The Obama Administration is standing in their way. “The President and his anti-American energy agenda has placed a de facto ban on LNG exports by log jamming their requests and using bureaucratic red tape to block America’s progress. “This bill breaks the bureaucratic gridlock and expedites approval of LNG exports. I’ve seen firsthand the jobs and opportunities that an LNG facility has created for the people of East Texas “Let’s help the American worker by approving H.R. 351. Thank you, and I yield back.”
01.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) announced his selection today to several key subcommittees that are critically important to the 36th District of Texas. On the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Babin will serve on the Highways and Transit Subcommittee; the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee; and the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. “I am excited to have been provided this critical platform to best serve the economic needs of our district,” said Rep. Babin. “As a member of the subcommittee with direct jurisdiction over our waterways, I will be a leading voice for our four local ports and the dredging of the Sabine-Neches Waterway.” “Congressman Babin will provide our committee with fresh insight and leadership into the transportation and waterway needs of East Texas. I look forward to working with him to help strengthen America’s infrastructure and bolster our Nation’s competitiveness,” said Chairman Bill Shuster. On the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, Babin will serve on the Space Subcommittee and the Science Subcommittee. “As the representative of Johnson Space Center, I will be a tireless advocate for a more robust human space flight program. I am determined to help refocus NASA’s mission to ensure America is once again the world leader in human presence and exploration of space,” said Rep. Babin. “I am pleased to welcome Congressman Babin to our Committee and I look forward to working with him to restore America’s space program. We have important work ahead of us in the 114th Congress. Congressman Babin’s passion for space exploration and the Johnson Space Center will be a valuable asset to this Committee,” said Chairman Lamar Smith.
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) offered his steadfast support today to thousands of Americans gathered in Washington, DC as they marched in support of the right to life on the 42nd anniversary of the Roe v Wade Supreme Court ruling. “As a man of deep faith and proud grandfather of 11 grandkids, I will always fight to protect the unborn and defend the sanctity of life. I commend all of today’s marchers for standing up on behalf of the unborn and for providing a voice to the voiceless,” said Rep. Babin. Rep. Babin also spoke on the House floor today in support of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortions Act, which passed the House by a vote of 242 – 179. To view video of Babin’s floor speech on H.R. 7, please click here. The transcript of his speech is as follows: “Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortions Act. “It’s plain wrong to use American’s hard-earned tax dollars to pay for abortions. “On September 9, 2009, President Obama told the Joint Session of Congress: [and I quote] One more misunderstanding I want to clear up -- under our plan, no federal dollars will be used to fund abortions, and federal conscience laws will remain in place.” “Those of us in the pro-life community knew that this was simply not the case. And last September, the Government Accountability Office confirmed that under Obamacare, abortions are being paid for with taxpayer funds by more than 1,000 Obamacare exchange plans across the country. “Our bill ends taxpayer funding for abortion, fulfilling one of the promises the President has broken. “Let's pass this bill and end the largest expansion of taxpayer-funded abortion in American history. Thank you, and I yield back.”
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement this evening in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “President Obama’s speech tonight amounted to nothing more than a rehash of old, worn out big-government rhetoric with little basis in truth or fact. His proposed agenda of higher taxes, more spending, and new regulations was exactly what Americans soundly rejected two months ago. By doubling down on these same failed policies, President Obama has completely lost touch and credibility with the American people. “It’s time the President realizes that government is not the answer – it’s the problem. We need real solutions focused on the priorities of hardworking Americans. We need to remove government barriers and let taxpayers keep more of their hard-earned money. The American people deserve an efficient, effective and accountable government and that’s what I’m fighting for.”
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) voted today for House passage of H.R. 240, the FY2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. Babin spoke on the House floor urging his colleagues to support the legislation, which fully defunds President Obama’s executive amnesty. The transcript of Babin’s speech is as follows: “Mr. Chairman, the United States is a nation of immigrants. It is also a nation of laws, and our Nation's leaders have a sworn duty to abide by those laws. On countless occasions, President Obama said that he lacked the authority to grant broad amnesty; however, in November, he reversed his course and unilaterally declared amnesty. “I rise in strong opposition to his executive amnesty and in strong support of legislation to defund his unlawful and unconstitutional actions. “Changes in immigration law--or in any law for that matter--rest with the legislative branch of the government, the United States Congress. Granting amnesty through unilateral executive action makes a mockery of our laws, and Congress must rein it in. “I am a cosponsor of H.R. 191, the Repeal Executive Amnesty Act. Key provisions of this bill will be offered as amendments to this appropriations bill. We will deny the administration funding to implement his amnesty. “As a past mayor, a hospital staff member for many years, and a local school board member, I know firsthand how this administration's plan is taxing the budgets of our local governments, including our schools, our hospitals, and our jails. This massive unfunded mandate must be repealed. “Amnesty also undermines our national security by perpetuating open borders, making Americans less safe. Finally, it leaves behind millions of American citizens who are unemployed at this time, making it even harder for them to find good-paying jobs. “To make the United States stronger, we must rein in this President. We must repeal unilateral amnesty, and we must return to the rule of law. I call on my colleagues to support H.R. 240 and the Aderholt amendment and to pass the underlying legislation. Thank you, and I yield back.” NOTE: To view video of Babin’s floor speech on H.R. 240, please click here.
01.09.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Brian Babin (TX-36) issued the following statement today after voting for House passage of H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: “For far too long, President Obama has impeded construction of the Keystone XL pipeline – costing the American people thousands of good-paying jobs and blocking an affordable source of energy. In the face of his continued obstruction, I proudly joined a strong bipartisan group of my colleagues voting to put an end to Obama’s obstruction and approving the Keystone XL pipeline. “This legislation is not only good for America, but it is also uniquely important to the 36th District of Texas. The pipeline will bring an economic boost to our area through its construction and new energy supply. For six years President Obama has put politics above what is good for the American people and our local and national economy. This is an important step in putting more Americans back to work, creating opportunity to good jobs and growing our national economy.”
01.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Brian Babin was sworn into the 114th Congress yesterday as the representative of Texas’ 36th Congressional District. Babin will serve on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee – providing him a critical platform to address the economic needs of the district. “As a life-long East Texan, I am honored and humbled by the opportunity to serve the people of Texas’ 36th Congressional District,” said Congressman Babin. “At such a pivotal time in our nation’s history, it is clear the American people are fed up with the direction of our country and the big government policies being pursued by the Obama Administration. I am committed to working to advance the conservative values of the 36th Congressional District. “With a national debt of $18 trillion, an unfolding Obamacare disaster, and an out of control border, we have lots of work to do to get America back on the right track and I am determined to help us get there. I look forward to immediately getting to work on behalf of the people of this great district and fighting tirelessly each and every day to build a stronger and more secure America.”
