01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on House Administration Chairperson-designate Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and the new House Democratic majority today introduced H.R. 1, the For the People Act, a sweeping package of pro-democracy and anticorruption reforms to put power back in the hands of the American people by ending the dominance of big money in politics; making it easier, not harder, to vote; and ensuring that politicians actually serve the public interest. H.R. 1 offers the most transformational and comprehensive democracy reforms in more than four decades, following through on Democrats’ election promise to clean up the chaos and corruption in Washington. “The American people feel the political system is rigged against them - that their vote may not count or matter,” said Lofgren. “But in November, voters went to the polls to change the status quo. They voted to put an end to politics as usual. House Democrats are answering their call and delivering on our promise to bring accountability and transparency to Washington DC. The For the People Act promises to deliver the change that American voters demanded on November 6th.” Oversight of federal elections is one of the chief tasks of the Committee on House Administration. Historically, the committee has had a hand in shaping legislation that touches on any and all aspects of federal elections. Issues concerning corrupt practices, contested congressional elections, campaign finance disclosures, and credentials and qualifications of House Members also fall under its purview. H.R. 1 makes critical reforms across three key areas: 1) Voting Rights Improve Access – H.R. 1 expands access to the ballot box by taking aim at key institutional barriers to voting, such as burdensome registration systems, limited voting hours and many other roadblocks. H.R. 1 creates automatic voter registration across the country, ensures that individuals who have completed felony sentences have their full rights restored, expands voting by mail and early voting and modernizes the U.S. voting system. Promote Integrity – H.R. 1 fights back against Republicans’ assault on voting rights by committing Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act; prohibiting voter roll purges like those seen in Ohio, Georgia and elsewhere; and ensuring that discriminatory voter ID laws do not prevent Americans citizens from exercising their rights. H.R. 1 also ends partisan gerrymandering to prevent politicians from picking their voters and lets American voters instead choose their elected officials. Ensure Security – H.R. 1 promises that American elections to be decided by American voters without interference from foreign entities. The bill enhances federal support for voting system security, particularly paper ballots, and increases oversight over election vendors. 2) Campaign Finance Guarantee Disclosure – H.R. 1 shines a light on dark money in politics by requiring any organization involved in political activity to disclose its large donors, which will break the nesting-doll system that allows big-money contributors and special interests to hide their spending in networks of socalled “social welfare” organizations. Empower Citizens – H.R. 1 levels the political playing field for everyday Americans, empowering individuals with a multiple matching system for small donations and allowing the American people to exercise their due influence in a post-Citizens United world, while reaffirming that Congress should have the authority to regulate money in politics. The new system of citizen-owned elections will break special interests’ stranglehold on politics and enable Congress to advance an agenda that serves the American people. 3) Ethics and Accountability Fortify Ethics Law – H.R. 1 breaks the influence economy in Washington and increases accountability by expanding conflict of interest law and divestment requirements, slowing the revolving door, preventing Members of Congress from serving on corporate boards and requiring presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns. Impose Greater Ethics Enforcement – H.R. 1 gives teeth to federal ethics oversight by overhauling the Office of Government Ethics, closing registration loopholes for lobbyists and foreign agents, ensuring watchdogs have sufficient resources to enforce the law and creating a code of ethics for the Supreme Court. For more information about H.R. 1 see here. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Senior Democratic Members of Congress wrote to Department of Homeland Security Acting Inspector General John Kelly demanding answers following news of a 7-year-old girl who died last week while in the custody of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials. Trump administration officials have since refused to take responsibility for the child’s death. “It is outrageously cruel for the Trump Administration to blame this child and her family for her own death. This Administration truly has no shame,” said Lofgren, the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. “This needless, heartbreaking death is just another example of consequences of the Trump Administration’s haphazard and chaotic immigration policy. At next week’s hearing, I expect Secretary Nielsen will be held to account for this Administration’s callous policies which have driven so many migrants to desperation.” The death, first revealed by the Washington Post, raises significant questions about the conditions in CBP’s short-term holding facilities, and the general suitability of such facilities for families given that Border Patrol stations were never designed to hold children. In their letter, the Members requested the IG’s office begin an immediate formal investigation with the expectation that DHS would quickly provide answers to Congress on why this tragedy happened, what policies may have been contributing factors in a young girl’s death, and how it was never reported by CBP as directed by Congress in the statement accompanying the FY18 DHS Funding bill. A copy of the letter to DHS Acting IG Kelly, signed by House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas), and Rep. Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), can be found below and here: December 14, 2018 Mr. John Kelly Acting Inspector General Office of Inspector General/MAIL STOP 0305 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, D.C. 20528-0305 Dear Mr. Kelly: We write to express our profound concern and sadness over the death of a 7-year-old girl in Customs and Border Protection (CBP) custody last week. This death raises significant questions about the conditions in CBP’s short-term holding facilities, and the general suitability of such facilities for families and children. We are also troubled by the fact that we learned of this incident from the Washington Post, rather than through congressional notification as required under Department of Homeland Security (DHS) appropriations laws. To address these and other concerns, we request that you open an investigation immediately. According to information provided to Congress after the Washington Post report was already public, U.S. Border Patrol apprehended the 7-year-old girl around 10:00 pm on the evening of December 6, 2018. She was apprehended with a large group of migrants who turned themselves into Border Patrol custody. At 6:25 am the following morning, the 7-year-old girl began experiencing seizures and later died, according to an initial medical diagnosis obtained by CBP, of septic shock, fever, and dehydration. It is so far unclear whether the girl and accompanying migrants were provided any food or water during the 8.5 hour period in which she remained in Border Patrol custody. Due to the seriousness of this tragedy and the many questions that remain, we request you initiate an investigation into this incident, as well as CBP policies or practices that may have contributed to the child’s death. The investigation should focus on policies and practices designed to protect health and safety, as well as policies and practices that may result in increased migration through particularly harsh terrain. For example, your office issued a report in September describing the impact of CBP’s policy of turning away asylum seekers.[1] That report concluded that the practice of turning away asylum seekers at international bridges and “limiting the volume of asylum-seekers entering at ports of entry” may have caused an increase in unauthorized crossing attempts.[2] One asylum seeker interviewed by the OIG stated that “she had been turned away three times by an officer on the bridge before deciding to take her chances on illegal entry.”[3] These facts are particularly troubling considering clear instructions from DHS Secretary Nielsen that asylum seekers should present themselves at ports of entry, instead of crossing between the ports.[4] The investigation should also examine the appropriateness of holding children in Border Patrol stations, which were never designed to hold children. On Tuesday, CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee, testifying that the agency’s short-term holding cells are “incompatible” with increased migration of family units and unaccompanied children. The Commissioner added that “[o]ur Border Patrol stations were built decades ago to handle mostly male single adults in custody, not families and children.”[5] Finally, you should investigate CBP’s failure to timely notify Congress of this incident. It is hard to overstate our frustration with the fact that we learned of this incident through media reports one week after the incident occurred. It is clear that CBP failed to follow the reporting requirements laid out in last year’s omnibus appropriations bill until after the news of this death was already public. It is imperative that CBP, and DHS more generally, provide prompt notification to Congress when these types of incidents occur. DHS can and must do better. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. We look forward to your timely response and notification that an investigation has been opened. Sincerely, _______________________________ Jerrold Nadler Ranking Member House Committee on the Judiciary _____________________________ Zoe Lofgren Ranking Member Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security ________________________________ Pramila Jayapal Member of Congress ________________________________ Joaquin Castro Chairman Elect Congressional Hispanic Caucus ________________________________ Lucille Roybal-Allard Ranking Member Subcommittee on Homeland Security CC: The Honorable Bob Goodlatte, Chairman, House Judiciary Committee The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen. Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security The Honorable Kevin K. McAleenan, Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection ________________________________________ [1] DHS Office of Inspector General, Special Review – Initial Observations Regarding Family Separation Issues Under the Zero Tolerance Policy (Sep. 27, 2018), https://www.oig.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/assets/2018-10/OIG-18-84-Sep18.pdf. [2] Id, at 7. [3] Id. [4] Neena Satija, The Trump administration is not keeping its promises to asylum seekers who come to ports of entry, Texas Tribune (July 5, 2018), available at https://www.texastribune.org/2018/07/05/migrants-seeking-asylum-legally-ports-entry-turned-away-separated-fami/. [5] Id. # # #
11.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following joint statement in response to a federal judge halting President Trump's illegal proclamation denying asylum to immigrants fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries. In his order issued last night, Judge Jon S. Tigar noted that the President “may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden.” In a joint statement, Reps. Nadler and Lofgren said: “Once again, the courts have been forced to step in and preserve the rule of law. No one, including the President, can rewrite the Nation’s immigration laws on their own. Instead of these illegal and ill-conceived attempts to circumvent our laws, the President should work with Congress to achieve the necessary bipartisan reforms our immigration system needs. The American people expect and deserve better.” ###
11.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following joint statement in response to President Trump's illegal proclamation denying asylum to immigrants fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries: "No one is above the law, including the President. Our Constitution simply does not allow the President to rewrite the laws on his own. It is particularly ugly that today’s announcement seeks to impose illegal restrictions on migrants fleeing violence and abuse. "Rather than engage in unconstitutional attempts to circumvent the law, the President should work with Congress to achieve the kind of bipartisan reforms needed to fix our immigration system. "As a nation we can be strong while showing compassion. That is why Democrats are committed to seeking reforms that secure our borders, keep families together, and maintain America’s role as a beacon of hope for those seeking freedom and safety." ###
10.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following joint statement in response to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of the Inspector General (IG) report, which determined the Administration misled Congress and the American people about its family separation policy with no plans for tracking children or ensuring reunification with their parents: “This internal and independent report from the DHS Inspector General confirms that the Trump Administration did not take the steps necessary to track the children it separated from their families under its ‘zero tolerance’ policy. Contrary to the Administration’s earlier claims, the report demonstrates that there was no central database for tracking children and ensuring their eventual reunification with family members. It is unclear if this was the result of willful negligence or gross incompetence, but the result has been the endangerment of child welfare along with prolonged and possible permanent separation of families. “The report also confirms that even as Secretary Nielsen publicly implored families to apply for asylum at lawful ports of entry, DHS repeatedly turned such families away at the ports—essentially giving them no choice but to attempt to cross illegally. Finally, the report confirms that the Administration repeatedly disregarded legal restrictions on the detention of children, keeping them detained in CBP holding cells far longer than the law allows. “Based on this report, it is clear that the Administration lied to us and the American people about its family separation policy. We call on our Republican colleagues to hold this administration accountable for the actions that continue to shock the conscience of our nation. It is clear this Administration cannot be trusted to provide the truth on its own.” ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) led 17 lawmakers in a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Acting Inspector General John V. Kelly requesting an investigation into allegations that DHS officials used coercive and abusive tactics on detained immigrant parents who were separated from their children at the border under the Trump Administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy. These tactics were allegedly used to compel parents to forgo their parental rights or their rights to pursue asylum claims, and resulted in some parents being deported while their children remained in government custody. “These parents’ statements highlight a common fact pattern: parents were separated from their children, denied information about their children’s wellbeing, and then subjected to inhumane detention conditions and coercive treatment – including verbal and physical abuse – that infringed on their legal rights,” said the lawmakers. “Parents allege that DHS personnel attempted to use their children to force them to forego their legal rights or misled them into relinquishing rights in order to reunify with their children.” The lawmakers continued, “DHS’ alleged treatment of separated parents in custody raises substantial legal concerns that warrant swift investigation and policy reforms. The alleged coercion and abuse faced by these parents suggests that DHS employees may have violated the Immigration and Naturalization Act and its regulations, as well as international law governing the right to apply for asylum. Also, DHS employees may have possibly violated constitutional due process rights in subjecting asylum seekers to conditions that effectively compelled them to abandon their legal rights.” In addition to Harris, Nadler and Lofgren, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Ed Markey (D-MA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Val Demings (D-FL), Henry C. Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), and Cedric Richmond (D-LA). Full text of the letter is available here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration's new "public charge" rule: “After Republicans failed to pass anti-immigrant legislation in Congress, the Trump Administration is now continuing their quest to divide our country by attempting to circumvent the legislative branch to redefine our longstanding “public charge” laws in illegitimate and unprecedented ways. For decades undocumented immigrants have been prohibited from receiving “welfare.” This proposal goes far beyond that. “Incredibly, this rule would, according to the Trump Administration itself, have broad profound negative impacts on the health, safety, and well-being of American communities across the country. In the draft regulation, the Trump Administration declares that, if implemented, the proposed rule could make America much sicker and poorer, including through: “worse health outcomes, including increased prevalence of obesity and malnutrition, especially for pregnant or breastfeeding women, infants, or children”; “increased prevalence of communicable diseases”; “increased rates of poverty”; “increased rates of housing instability”; “reduced productivity”; and “reduced educational attainment.” “The Trump Administration declares this rule will harm American families in communities all across the nation – yet it nevertheless decided to plow ahead in its zeal to vilify immigrants and attempt to drive political wedges between communities in America. “This is simply the latest attempt to divide and distract Americans from the many real ways in which Trump and the Republican Party have supported policies and legislation that hurt the middle class. It’s no secret that middle-class wages have failed to keep up with skyrocketing health-care, education, and housing costs. Instead of addressing these issues, Republicans have enacted tax cuts for the wealthy, worked to cut education funding, and proposed cuts to Medicare and Social Security. This Administration has failed to promote policies that unite Americans, and has instead embraced policies that are ugly, divisive and unproductive. This is more of the same.” # # #
09.18.2018	SAN JOSE, CA – The Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport was selected by the Transportation Security Administration to test new airport perimeter intrusion detection and deterrence technologies, announced U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Eric Swalwell (D-Castro Valley) today. H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 allocated up to $10 million to be allocated on testing equipment. Following a selection process based on aggregate data assessment of airports across the nation, the TSA selected Mineta San Jose International Airport and the Miami International Airport based on an assessment of sites across the nation. “I’m excited to see another robust federal investment into improving security at Mineta San Jose International Airport,” said Lofgren. “By bolstering the technology deployed to keep our airport perimeter secure, we are taking steps to ensure the safety of businesses, travelers, and employees and help establish Mineta as the premier gateway to Silicon Valley. I’m eager to see this new program build off the sizeable federal investments in perimeter security I’ve helped bring to Mineta over the past several years.” “I’m so glad that some of the $10 million I helped obtain for studying improvements to airport perimeter security will be used right here in the Bay Area,” Swalwell said. “Since my time on the Homeland Security Committee during my first term, I’ve known that we absolutely must update our thinking about how we protect our airports to keep America safer. Many airports are far too vast to have personnel watching every inch of perimeter, but new technology can serve as a force multiplier, letting us know when a breach happens anywhere, at any time, and help us catch intruders before they can do harm.” “This is a welcome investment in further analysis, software and hardware to complement SJC’s recent security enhancements, which included raising the perimeter fenceline height and implementing the associated technology, also made possible through support from our federal leadership,” said Director of Aviation John Aitken. “We greatly appreciate the continued support from Congresswoman Lofgren, Congressman Swalwell and TSA Administrator Pekoske to secure up to $4 million in funding to further ensure the safety of the 14 million travelers who fly in and out of SJC annually.” Lofgren and Swalwell have been instrumental in securing federal funds for Mineta San Jose International Airport. Over the past two years, Lofgren helped Mineta receive more than $16.5 million for infrastructure improvements and perimeter security upgrades. The $10 million allocated today is the result of a provision authored by Swalwell and included in H.R. 1625. During the TSA’s test of perimeter equipment and technology, the TSA will consider installing, testing, and analyzing a wide range of technologies, including: Video cameras to allow operators to assess a situation remotely and in a way that other sensors cannot. Analytics software to automate the detection of unauthorized personnel and other potential threats within covered areas. Radar, microwave, and passive Infra-Red sensors which offer the advantage of covering a larger area than a typical camera. Laser sensors useful for securing large, straight sections of a perimeter. Fence sensors useful for detecting intruders climbing or cutting the fence. Unattended ground sensors to detect walking, digging, and vehicle traffic near the protected area. Other technologies including gunshot detectors, under vehicle screening at speed, and hailers. SJC: Transforming How Silicon Valley Travels Mineta San José International Airport (SJC) is Silicon Valley’s airport, a self‐supporting enterprise owned and operated by the City of San José. The airport serves 13.7 million passengers annually, with 210 peak daily departures on 16 international and domestic carriers to 54 nonstop destinations. SJC has been one of America’s fastest‐growing major airports over the past two years, based on percentage increase in passenger seat capacity. For more airport information, visit flysanjose.com. # # #
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement on H.R. 6691: “The Supreme Court in Dimaya v. Sessions invalidated 18 U.S.C. Sec. 16(b) and called on Congress to clarify the meaning of that provision. We must heed the Court’s direction and provide a legislative solution that adequately defines “crime of violence.” But H.R. 6691 is not the solution. “H.R. 6691 would have far reaching impacts on our criminal justice system. It would expand the number of juveniles who are prosecuted as adults in federal court, it would increase federal prison sentences and hamstring criminal justice reform efforts to broaden rehabilitative programs. H.R. 6691 has not received any Committee action, nor have House Republicans provided sufficient time for criminal legal experts to weigh in on the impacts to our criminal justice system. “Under H.R. 6691, a passenger who flies on United Airlines and is perceived to have interfered with the flight crew, could be considered to have committed a “crime of violence.” A driver who fails to immediately stop for a law enforcement official could be considered to have committed a “crime of violence.” A shopper who engages in the act of shoplifting could be considered to have committed a “crime of violence.” Common sense tells us that these crimes, while unlawful, are not violent offenses that warrant harsh penalties. “There are aspects of this legislation that are meritorious – for example, enumerating aggravated sexual abuse as a “violent crime” – but its essential flaw is that H.R. 6691 is a rushed attempt to push forward an imperfect and inadequate solution to a real problem. Rather than rushing this bill to the House floor for a vote, the House Judiciary Committee should hold hearings on Dimaya v. Sessions and provide Committee members with the opportunity to consider legislation in a Committee markup. Through this regular order process, I have confidence we can work together on a solution that makes sense. “For these reasons, I will vote “present” on this bill and I urge my colleagues to do the same.” # # #
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced a new federal grant to install positive train control systems on the peninsula corridor Caltrain track between San Francisco and Southern San Jose. The $18,693,386 grant, administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation, will support putting in place Positive Train Control along the Caltrain rail line. Positive Train Control is a system of functional requirements for monitoring and controlling train movements, and consists of advanced technologies designed to make rail transportation safer by automatically stopping a train before certain types of accidents like train collisions and derailments occur. The grant will be provided to the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, which owns and operates Caltrain – a commuter rail line which operates across San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara Counties. "I’m glad to see federal funds put towards improving the safety of our local rail systems," said Rep. Lofgren. "This federal grant is will benefit millions of residents and many businesses from San Jose to San Francisco.” “Positive Train Control technology is a game changer when it comes to increasing the safety and efficiency of commuter rail lines,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The $18 million federal investment will strengthen Caltrain and can ultimately save lives. This is a critical component to the modernization of Caltrain, the spine of our region’s transportation system.” The federal funding is provided under the Fiscal Year 2018 Positive Train Control Grants under the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grant Program # # #
08.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced nearly $2.4 million in new federal to Santa Clara County and the City of San Jose for repairs to flooding damage caused by storms in 2017. The grants, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, were awarded after Lofgren, the elected Chair of the 39-member California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led a bipartisan letter from 27 California Members of Congress in support of the State of California’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration due to severe weather at the beginning of 2017. President Trump declared a Major Disaster in California in April 2017. "I'm glad to see the federal government respond to California’s request for assistance," said Lofgren. "These funds will go a long way towards helping repair the damage caused by severe weather during the winter of 2017." A $1,114,846.50 FEMA grant to Santa Clara County will reimburse repairs that have been made to broken pavement on Croy Road, caused by embankment erosion. Prior to repair, the damage restricted traffic to one lane with limits on vehicle length, weight, and axle count, and caused Uvas Canyon County Park to be temporarily closed. An additional $1,273,908.08 was provided to the City of San Jose. The federal funding is provided under the Public Assistance Program of the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. # # #
08.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), announced an AmeriCorps grant awarded to San Jose-based nonprofit Our City Forest, an urban forestry and environmental stewardship organization. The $549,236 grant, awarded as part of the FY2018 AmeriCorps State and National Grant Competition, will help support the 40 AmeriCorps members that are currently serving with Our City Forest. AmeriCorps members serving with the organization receive training to become urban forestry and outreach specialists, engage with the community in cultivating trees and other plants, and promote water conservation efforts to combat drought. “I’m so glad to see federal funds awarded to support Our City Forest,” said Lofgren “Their work for more than 20 years has encouraged environmental stewardship throughout the region, beautified San Jose, and engaged many community members in the appreciation of urban forestry. This grant is well deserved, and I applaud Our City Forest for their decades of good work in Silicon Valley.” “For 10 years, this AmeriCorps grant has made it possible for San José to have a model urban forestry program for its neighborhoods and parks, while saving considerable municipal staff time and money,” said Our City Forest CEO and President Rhonda Berry. “The hundreds of local environmental jobs created, along with technical training, has been the icing on the cake.” Our City Forest’s mission is to cultivate a greener, healthier urban environment and a renewed sense of community by involving Silicon Valley residents in the understanding, planting and care of the urban forest. The organization provides site assessments, training, trees, stakes, planting assistance and post-planting inspections for the general public. Our City Forest also provides volunteering and educational opportunities to the general public. # # #
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced a combined $430,851 in federal funding was awarded to the San Jose State University Research Foundation for new education and research programs. Two grants, awarded by the National Science Foundation, will support a data science training program for students and the study of botany at SJSU. "I'm glad to see San Jose State University succeed in seeking federal funding to support new and innovative programs," said Lofgren. "These grants will help bring to SJSU the resources to better educate students and the community at large." $410,060 is designated for a project entitled "Cyber Training: CUI: SJSU Data Science for All Seminar Series." The program will expand the existing data science workforce pipeline by providing data science analytics training for community college and undergraduate students who do not have prior knowledge or skills in the area. Seminar topics will focus on programming and software applications commonly used within the data science workforce. In addition, training provided to instructors across the Bay Area will likely encourage other community colleges and universities to adopt this course. The second grant of $20,791 will help establish a digital record of California flora. The project, called "Digitization Thematic Collection Network: Collaborative Research: Capturing California’s Flowers: Using digital images to investigate phonological change in a biodiversity hotspot,” will involve twenty-two institutions, including universities, state agencies, museums, and botanical gardens – in conjunction with SJSU – creating new images for the more than 900,000 plant species across California. This documentation will allow biologists, land managers, students, and educators to better understand flowering time shifts and access data about California plants. The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provide the foundation for economic growth in this country. # # #
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following passage of a new law in Vietnam that severely curtails privacy rights of Vietnamese citizens, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) joined her Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam calling for the heads of Google and Facebook to live up to their firms’ stated missions to promote openness and connectivity in Vietnam. In a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Google CEO Sundar Pichai, the Members of Congress explain the new cybersecurity law enacted by the Vietnamese government “contravenes existing trade provisions and international covenants of human rights.” The letter reads: “The cyber law does nothing to protect internet users. Rather, it is a blatant effort by the Vietnamese government to crack down on online expression by enlisting the help of leading technology companies – especially Facebook and Google – as the law requires the removal of content within 24 hours of receiving a request from the Minister of Public Security or the Ministry of Information and Communications. “It is already being reported that your companies have removed video and accounts after requests by the Vietnamese government, including accounts of users in California and Germany. These are very troubling developments that we hope you can help us understand. The censorship of the accounts of Vietnamese-Americans is particularly concerning.” The letter specifically asks that Facebook and Google: Refrain from storing user data within Vietnam if doing so means the data can be seized at any time by the Vietnamese government. Establish transparent guidelines with respect to content removal. Promptly publish the number of requests from the Vietnamese government to remove content, as well as the number of times each company complied with such requests. Promptly and confidentially share with the relevant Congressional Committees all requests for user data from the Vietnamese authorities and indicate which ones were complied with. The Members of Congress conclude the letter by offering the diplomatic weight of the U.S. government to assist the firms if they are being coerced to aid and abet the Vietnamese government’s censorship. Lofgren, Lowenthal, and Smith were joined by U.S. Reps. Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.), J. Luis Correa (D-Calif.), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.), Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.), Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Scott H. Peters (D-Calif.), Ami Bera (D-Calif.), Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.), Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) and Karen Bass (D-Calif.). A similar letter from U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) was also sent to the CEOs on Tuesday. A full copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court decision to uphold President Trump’s travel ban. Lofgren and U.S. Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) led the amici curiae brief signed by Members of Congress in support of Hawaii’s lawsuit challenging the President’s proclamation banning travel to the United States from several Muslim-majority countries. “The Supreme Court’s decision in Trump v. Hawaii will be remembered as a stain on our nation’s history. The Court ruled that the text of the travel ban was not discriminatory, and that the Administration had legitimate national security reasons to implement the ban. The Court weighed heavily in favor of Presidential deference but failed to adequately consider the extensive number of discriminatory statements made by Donald Trump as a candidate and as President. This reasoning is fundamentally flawed. “First, the Constitution requires us to examine not just the text of a law, but the intent of the law. In this case, President Trump and his advisors repeatedly stated it was their intention to implement a travel ban prohibiting Muslims from entering the country. In their dissent, Judges Sotomayor and Ginsberg recount in painstaking detail the Anti-Muslim statements made by Candidate Trump, President Trump and members of his administration. None of these comments have ever been disavowed by Trump or his Administration. “Second, the Administration’s national security reasoning in enacting the travel ban is flimsy at best. The Administration’s ‘worldwide review’ of national security threats consisted of only 17 pages. Moreover, former national security officials from both parties filed an amicus brief explaining that the travel ban does ‘not advance the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, and in fact do[es] serious harm to those interests.’ “Lastly, the Court relied on the existence of a waiver as a reason why the travel ban was not overly restrictive. But dissenting Judges Breyer and Kagan explain that very few waivers have actually been granted, even for those clearly eligible while the Administration has failed to provide any guidance to consular officials. In their dissent, Judges Sotomayor and Ginsberg state plainly, the “waiver program is nothing more than a sham.” “The one bright spot in an otherwise terrible decision was the Court’s decision to explicitly overrule Korematsu v. United States (1944), finding that an Executive Order forcing Japanese Americans into internment camps was unconstitutional and not necessary to protect national security. But the irony of overruling Korematsu while also upholding a discriminatory travel ban is not lost on anyone. I agree with Judges Sotomayor and Ginsberg who concluded that this decision “merely replaces one ‘gravely wrong’ decision with another.” # # #
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, delivered the following remarks on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 4760, the Securing America’s Future Act (SAFE Act): Rep. Lofgren Floor Statement on H.R. 4760 Video of Rep. Lofgren Floor Statement on H.R. 4760 “Madame Chair - this is an anti-immigrant bill. It slashes legal immigration, it will injure the ag industry, it criminalizes nearly the entire undocumented population, it will undermine public safety, and removes critical protections for families and children, and it even fails to provide a pathway to legal permanent residence for Dreamers. “You know, sometimes my friends across the aisle say the problem with immigration is we don’t have assimilation. You don’t get assimilation when you create a permanent underclass of people who are Americans in every way but their paperwork. “It eliminates family-based categories, and this is the relatives of Americans – American citizens and Legal Permanent Residents – forget it – you’re not going to be able to get your family members in if this bill passes. “It mandates the use of E-Verify which would be highly disruptive to restaurants, hotels, and other industries, and the changes to the ag worker program are just a fig-leaf. “The bill transforms a civil-law violation into a crime so that undocumented immigrants – including the parents of DREAMers the bill purports to help – become criminals overnight. It would accelerate separation of kids from parents when 11 million American workers suddenly become subject to prosecution. “Undermining our asylum system by establishing impossibly high evidentiary burdens – it removes protections, as I said. And it does nothing to reunite the thousands of children who’ve been taken away from their parents at the border. Instead, it facilitates putting mothers in the cages with their toddlers. “So why are we debating a bill that nearly everyone, even many in the Republican party, think is a terrible idea? I fear it is because the very extreme elements of the Republican party have become the loudest and the most powerful. “I continue to have faith in the good people of our country. The American public spoke out loudly against President Trump’s family separation policy. They couldn’t stand seeing little children – babies and toddlers – ripped from their mothers’ arms. And we saw a reversal, but it’s not a solution, because locking up mothers, putting those mothers in the cages with their toddlers, is not the solution to this problem. “We’re not going to let hatred, bigotry and xenophobia prevail in this country. I would urge a no vote on this bill.” . . . “I wish that we had an opportunity to sit down, reason together, and come up with a plan that really serves our country. That didn’t happen. Here’s what the result was - the Chamber of Commerce has just reported that the Niskanen Center, that they have relied on, indicates that if this bill became law, the US would lose $319 billion in GDP. That would be the impact, according to the US Chamber of Commerce, for adopting this bill. “And I wonder what my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are really doing? By turning every undocumented person in the United States – currently a civil law violation – into a crime, we’re now creating 11 million prosecution opportunities – and at the same time, the Washington Post is just reporting, and I quote, this is the headline: “Trump Administration Will Stop Prosecuting Migrant Parents Who Cross the Border Illegally with Children, Official Says.” “What are we doing here? We’re doing a bill that would incarcerate families and children to pursue a policy that the Administration now says they don’t intend to pursue. Now I don’t have a lot of trust in the Trump Administration because it changes daily, but I will say – I would urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to take a step back here. Your President has left you out on a limb, and he just sawed that limb off, for a bill that does damage to the country, for a policy he now has apparently has abandoned. This is a ridiculous situation here.” # # #
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement today regarding President Trump’s executive order on family separation: “President Trump seems to seek our approval for trying to solve a problem he himself created. Separating children from their parents is cruel, inhumane, and abusive to children. It remains to be seen how the President intends to resolve this. If his plan is to put parents in the cages with their children, that’s simply trading one form of abuse for another. “Seeking asylum is not illegal. It’s part of our immigration laws. To throw vulnerable children in jail – even with their parents – is not acceptable and is prohibited. The Flores Settlement clearly indicates that indefinite incarceration of children in prisons is not a good thing. Children require special protections and should not be placed in jail-like settings. “The Family Case Management Program, which was eliminated by President Trump in one of his first actions as President, was an effective community supervision program that secured a near 100% court appearance rate for asylum-seekers. If Trump actually cared about ensuring compliance with the law, he could simply reinstate that program.” # # #
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Subcommittee on Immigration Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) joined House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and 190 House Democrats in introducing the Keep Families Together Act, H.R. 6135, legislation to end family separation at the U.S. border. In addition to Rep. Nadler, original House cosponsors of the legislation include: Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) and House Democratic leadership. Ranking Member Nadler’s legislation is the House companion to the legislation introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months.
05.25.2018	SAN JOSE, CA – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security proposed a rule to end the International Entrepreneur Rule, a program that would allow foreign entrepreneurs to be considered for parole to develop and build start-up businesses in America: “Today’s proposed rule from the Department of Homeland Security is a prime example of the Trump Administration’s deeply anti-immigrant bias doing harm to our economic competitiveness. The Foreign Entrepreneur Rule would have helped promising entrepreneurs start and build their companies here in the United States. These entrepreneurs would not take American jobs – they would create American jobs, and ending this rule means we will now lose those jobs and companies to competitors abroad. That makes no sense, particularly when these entrepreneurs are students or graduates of U.S. universities who have spent years studying and working in the United States. Many have already lined up venture or seed capital and are ready to start hiring American workers today. Ending this program does nothing to benefit our country. It only serves to mollify the Trump Administration’s extreme anti-immigrant fervor.” # # #
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - This week, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) signed a discharge petition to force a vote to restore net neutrality protections. The petition was filed a day after the United States Senate voted on a bipartisan basis to overturn a Federal Communication Commission (FCC) order to end net neutrality. "Reversing the FCC's unwise order to end net neutrality is our best chance to preserve and guard the internet as we know it," said Lofgren. "Speaker Ryan and House Republicans have refused for six months to debate restoring net neutrality that the Trump Administration dismantled in December. The Senate has acted to protect the internet, now the House should follow suit." In the face of Republican inaction, House Democrats have proposed a detailed plan to: Safeguard the open Internet through strong net neutrality protections; Ensure nationwide, competitive broadband options for consumers and small businesses; and Bring broadband to every neighborhood, school and farm. "It is essential to American innovation, entrepreneurship, and investment in broadband across the nation and around the world that rules are in place to prevent the practices of blocking legal content, throttling, or prioritizing Internet traffic based on source, application, or content," Lofgren continued. "Large technology companies, small app developers, movie and television writers, public advocacy organizations, and the public at large all stand to gain from a free and open internet." # # #
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC. – Bipartisan lawmakers today reintroduced the Secure Data Act to protect Americans' privacy and data security by prohibiting surveillance and law enforcement agencies from forcing companies to insert encryption backdoors into their products and services, making them less secure. U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) introduced the Secure Data Act along with original cosponsors Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.). “Encryption backdoors put the privacy and security of everyone using these compromised products at risk,” said Lofgren. “It is troubling that law enforcement agencies appear to be more interested in compelling U.S. companies to weaken their product security than using already available technological solutions to gain access to encrypted devices and services. Congress must act to protect the products available to Americans that keep their personal information safe from warrantless surveillance and hackers intent on breaching their data.” “When the government forces companies to insert security backdoors in their products, they make Americans less safe,” said Massie. “Backdoors in otherwise secure products make Americans’ data less safe, and they compromise the desirability of American goods overseas.” US intelligence and law enforcement agencies have requested, required, and even sought court orders against individuals and companies to build a "backdoor,” weakening secure encryption in their product or service to assist in electronic surveillance. Today’s legislation comes on the heels of a troubling Department of Justice Office of Inspector General report calling into question the Federal Bureau of Investigations’ handling of Syed Rizwan Farook’s locked iPhone in the wake of the 2015 San Bernardino attack which suggested that FBI officials did not pursue available technical solutions to access Farook’s iPhone because the FBI preferred obtaining a precedent-setting court judgement compelling Apple to weaken their product encryption. It is well-documented that encryption backdoors put the data security of every person and business using the products or services in question at risk. For example, a software testing firm found serious backdoor vulnerabilities in wiretapping software for law enforcement made by Israeli software firm NICE Systems in 2013 that allowed hackers to completely compromise their system and listen to intercepted phone calls. Backdoors created for law enforcement and intelligence surveillance are vulnerabilities available for hackers exploit. Encryption backdoors also harm U.S. businesses and jobs. When the security of American products is compromised, consumers will buy less American hardware and software and will favor suppliers with more secure products from outside the United States. Read the full Secure Data Act here. # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), issued the following statement regarding President Trump announcement that he will withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “President Trump’s unilateral decision to remove the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action reached between our allies and Iran is reckless and unwarranted. This agreement has been in the best interests of the United States and the world. It walked Iran back from its status as a threshold nuclear power. It required the removal of the nuclear material needed for a bomb, and prohibited anything but peaceful nuclear power in the future. It is the best option we have to prevent Iran from securing a nuclear weapon. “The President’s actions damage the United States’ credibility as a good-faith negotiating partner as we embark on multi-lateral discussions over the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. His decision makes the world more dangerous and Americans less safe. # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement today regarding a Trump Administration decision to refer every person entering the country between ports of entry for federal prosecution, a policy that will dramatically increase the separation of parents from their children: “The Trump Administration’s continued policy of family separation at our Southern border is an unconscionable degradation of American values. We are not served by tearing children from the arms of their parents, nor does the indiscriminate use of mass criminal prosecution serve the interests of justice. Many of the women and children arriving at our borders are fleeing unimaginable violence in their home countries and are seeking protection and safety under the law. “Attorney General Sessions claims these families are ‘lawless’ and seeking to ‘invade’ or ‘stampede’ this country, but it is not unlawful to seek asylum protection in this country. People with a legitimate fear of persecution, under US law have a right to present their case for asylum. That is part of immigration law. “The United States has long been a beacon of freedom and hope for the world's most vulnerable. This Trump Administration policy is a stain on that legacy and a disgrace to our country’s long commitment to asylum and refugee law.” # # #
05.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for over 50,000 Hondurans: “The Trump Administration's decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status for over 50,000 Hondurans is another example of this Administration's reckless disregard for the safety and well-being of immigrant communities. While the original grant of TPS for Honduras was due to the effects of a devastating hurricane in Central America, conditions in Honduras have since worsened. Honduras today has one of the highest murder rates in the world and is afflicted with such violence that record numbers of women and children have fled the country for their safety. Despite these conditions, the Trump Administration has decided to force Hondurans – many of whom have lived in the United States for close to 20 years – to leave their families, their homes, and their businesses, and return to an unstable nation plagued by pervasive violence. Make no mistake, this decision has nothing to do with illegal immigration. TPS recipients are legal immigrants who will be stripped of their legal status. This decision is a further indication that this Administration's immigration agenda has nothing to do with the 'rule of law' but has everything to do with xenophobia and hate.” ###
04.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Doris Matsui (CA-06) introduced the Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act to provide Americans the opportunity to invest in clean energy technologies and projects around the country. Modeled after the enormously successful victory bonds sold during World War II, Clean Energy Victory Bonds would allow Americans to participate in the clean energy economy through safe investments while also helping create jobs and spur growth in clean energy technologies needed to increase domestic energy security. “We all benefit as Americans when we invest in the future of our country,” said Congresswoman Lofgren. “Individual citizens helped turn the tide in World War II with Victory Bonds, and we can do that again for the energy and environmental challenges we face by allowing families to invest in innovative technologies that yield a profitable return for the investor and to society.” “We have a shared responsibility to reverse the effects of our changing climate,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “This legislation gives Americans an opportunity to take action while spurring growth in clean energy technologies, increasing domestic energy security, and creating jobs. I’m pleased to join with Congresswoman Lofgren on this important legislation, which provides a pathway for investments in our country’s collective future.” The Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act directs the Treasury Department to issue small-denomination, specifically designated treasury bonds to be widely sold and promoted. The proceeds will fund programs under the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy that encourage the growth of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. The bonds are to be available for purchase by individuals for as little as $25 and the proceeds are estimated to: Create up to $50 billion in direct investment that could be leveraged in proven incentives to accelerate the development of clean energy and clean energy technologies; Create new jobs that put Americans back to work developing clean energy technologies and building clean energy projects in communities across the country; Improve national security and increased investment into the U.S. domestic clean energy industry to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign sources of energy; Provide a safe opportunity for Americans to invest in the future of their country and a healthy environment. Click here to read the full text of the legislation. # # #
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced a new federal grant of $478,897 to the San Jose State University Research Foundation for scientific research. The award, administered by the National Science Foundation, will support a SJSU research project entitled “Collaborative Research: Ice Supersaturation over the Southern Ocean and Antarctica, and its Role in Climate.” “I’m glad to see San Jose State University succeed in seeking federal funding to support new and exciting research programs,” said Lofgren. “This grant will help bring to SJSU the resources to better understand the Antarctic and its role in our changing climate.” The project will analyze observations from three recent major field campaigns which provide airborne measurements and ground-based observations of ice supersaturation and its impacts on the radiative effects of clouds. According to the project abstract, two education and outreach projects will be carried out at San Jose State University, including a unique undergraduate student research project with hands-on laboratory work on an airborne instrument, and an outreach program that uses social media to broadcast news on polar research to the public. The National Science Foundation’s mission is to support research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. # # #
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Steve Stivers (R-Ohio) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif) introduced H.R. XXXX, the Daniel Webster Congressional Clerkship Act, a bill that would establish a coordinated entry portal and recruitment device for recent law graduates to clerk for Congress for one year. This legislation creates 12 one-year positions, split evenly by chamber and party. Studies have shown that the legislative experience gap among lawyers has increased, compared to those with experience in courts, government agencies, private firms, and universities. This legislation would help close that gap and encourage law school graduates to pursue legislative opportunities. "The Daniel Webster Congressional Clerkship Program will allow future leaders an early opportunity to serve in Congress," Lofgren said. "Many of our nation's greatest leaders and scholars served as law clerks early in their careers. This legislation would put Congress on par with both the Executive and Judicial Branches which already offer clerkships to exemplary young lawyers.” “Congress has the Constitutional power to the write the law, however, it is also the least accessible branch of government for law school graduates,” Stivers said. “This program would strengthen Congress by bringing in talented, legally-trained staff members to provide assistance and advice in the legislative process.” The program would be funded through outside fellowship programs, or clerks being hired by individual Member, committee, leadership or non-partisan Hill offices. This legislation has garnered the support of the Deans of over 120 law schools. A bipartisan companion bill (S. 1604) has also been introduced in the Senate by Senators Mike Lee (R-UT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), John Hoeven (R-ND), and Ted Cruz (R-TX). To learn more about the effort to advance this legislation and additional research, click here. # # #
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), U.S. Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and U.S. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) led all Senate and House Judiciary Democrats in a letter condemning recent actions by the Justice Department undermining basic due process protections for immigrants. As Members of the committees of jurisdiction over the Justice Department, immigration law, and constitutional law, they raised concerns that the Justice Department’s actions flout Supreme Court precedent and abandon the most basic notions of fairness within the American justice system. They wrote: “We write to express our profound objection to actions taken by the Department of Justice to undermine central elements of due process and fairness in our immigration system. By imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges and now attempting to terminate the longstanding Legal Orientation Program (LOP), the Department is systematically deconstructing basic due process protections for immigrants. These measures raise constitutional concerns and stand in stark contrast to the American vision of a justice system for all.” They continued: “We strongly condemn these recent decisions to undermine the integrity of our immigration system. The Department of Justice exists as a guardian of the rule of law. That necessarily entails protecting the due process rights of citizens and non-citizens alike. We believe the measures described above undermine the most basic notions of fairness in the American justice system, and thus the rule of law itself. We urge you to reject these ill-advised policy changes.” The letter was sent to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and signed by all Democratic members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees. Their letter was sent to the Attorney General ahead of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Immigration Subcommittee hearing titled “Strengthening and Reforming America’s Immigration Court System” to be held at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 18th, in the Senate Dirksen Office Building (SD-226). The full text of the letter to Attorney General Sessions is available here and copied below. April 17, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We write to express our profound objection to actions taken by the Department of Justice to undermine central elements of due process and fairness in our immigration system. By imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges and now attempting to terminate the longstanding Legal Orientation Program (LOP), the Department is systematically deconstructing basic due process protections for immigrants. These measures raise constitutional concerns and stand in stark contrast to the American vision of a justice system for all. As members of the Committees of jurisdiction over the Justice Department and both immigration and constitutional law, we remind you that the U.S. Supreme Court has firmly established that the Constitution guarantees basic due process for immigrants. The Court has ruled that the “Due Process Clause applies to all ‘persons’ within the United States, including aliens,” and that it is “not confined to the protection of citizens.”[1] The Court has further observed that “aliens who have once passed through our gates . . . may be expelled only after proceedings conforming to traditional standards of fairness encompassed in due process of law.”[2] Despite these constitutional protections, immigrants often face a starkly different reality than citizens.[3] Children, some as young as three years old, have been compelled to represent themselves before immigration judges because there is no government appointed counsel.[4] Immigrants who do not speak English are often forced to navigate the complexities of immigration law without the aid of a competent interpreter.[5] It is difficult to reconcile these unjust realities with the “traditional standards of fairness encompassed in due process” required by the Supreme Court. And now, the Department seeks to further erode what little due process exists in our immigration courts. On January 17, 2018, the Department announced new “performance metrics” imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges. Immigration judges will now be expected to complete 700 cases a year with a less than 15 percent remand rate in order to receive a “satisfactory” performance rating from the Department.[6] But immigration judges – like their peers in other court systems – must not be asked to sacrifice thoroughness and reasoned judgment in favor of speed. Immigration judges must possess sufficient discretion, independence, and information to fairly rule on each legal and factual question before them. This is particularly true because immigration judges are often presiding over cases that have life-and-death consequences. Assembly line justice is no justice at all. Forcing judges to choose between job security and thoroughness is a direct threat to due process. It is bad policy, and it is not a choice that any judge should have to make. Inevitably, immigrants appearing in court will legitimately question whether the immigration judge’s decisions are driven by the merits of their arguments or the need to quickly process cases. This will only lead to more appeals, clogged circuit courts, longer detention stays, and more backlogs – undermining the purported efficiency-based rationale for implementing these quotas in the first place. To make matters worse, reports indicate that the Department intends to pause and possibly terminate the LOP and the Immigration Court Helpdesk (ICH) program.[7] These programs connect immigrants with legal services organizations that provide them with basic information about their legal rights and the court process. In 2016 alone, LOP attorneys and paralegals assisted more than 60,000 detained individuals in 38 detention facilities across the country. While the Department claims that the LOP must be paused to assess the cost-effectiveness of the program, its own study in 2012 found that the LOP saved the government nearly $18 million over a three year period.[8] This Department study demonstrates that our immigration system operates more efficiently when immigrants, who have no government appointed counsel, are provided with basic information about the court process and their rights. The Trump administration’s Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agrees. An internal ICE memo from November 2017 regarding the LOP states, “[e]xperience has shown that LOP attendees are positioned to . . . complete their cases faster than detainees who have not received LOP.”[9] Thus, the Department’s claim that the LOP must be paused to assess its cost effectiveness appears merely to be a smokescreen masking an attempt to strip immigrants of access to information about their rights. The Department’s decision to pause the LOP contradicts clear and unambiguous Congressional intent. The FY 2018 Omnibus – which Congress passed and the President signed into law – contains language explicitly instructing the Department to provide funds to “sustai[n] the current legal orientation program.”[10] The legislation also contains language noting the need for expanded LOP services in remote areas.[11] By deciding instead to temporarily halt the program, the Department is ignoring the will of Congress. We strongly condemn these recent decisions to undermine the integrity of our immigration system. The Department of Justice exists as a guardian of the rule of law. That necessarily entails protecting the due process rights of citizens and non-citizens alike. We believe the measures described above undermine the most basic notions of fairness in the American justice system, and thus the rule of law itself. We urge you to reject these ill-advised policy changes. Sincerely, Patrick Leahy Jerrold Nadler Richard J. Durbin Zoe Lofgren Dianne Feinstein Christopher Coons Richard Blumenthal Mazie K. Hirono Cory A. Booker Kamala D. Harris Sheila Jackson Lee Steve Cohen Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Theodore E. Deutch Luis V. Gutiérrez Karen Bass Cedric L. Richmond Hakeem Jeffries David N. Cicilline Eric Swalwell Ted W. Lieu Jamie Raskin Pramila Jayapal Bradley S. Schneider Val Butler Demings # # #
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Justin Amash (R-Mich.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), led 88 bipartisan Members of Congress in a letter urging President Trump to consult and receive authorization from Congress prior to ordering the use of U.S. military force in Syria, citing the President’s responsibility to do so prescribed in the Constitution and the War Powers Resolution of 1973. The members write: “While the Founders wisely gave the Office of the President the authority to act in emergencies, they foresaw the need to ensure public debate — and the active engagement of Congress — prior to committing U.S. military assets. Engaging our military in Syria when no direct threat to the United States exists and without prior congressional authorization would violate the separation of powers that is clearly delineated in the Constitution. “We stand ready to consider the facts before us and share the burden of decisions made regarding U.S. involvement in the quickly escalating Syrian conflict.” Read the full letter here. The members were joined by U.S. Reps. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), Alcee L. Hastings (D-Fla.), Peter A. DeFazio (D-Ore.), Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (R-Ariz.), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-N.J.), Walter B. Jones (R-N.C.), Tom McClintock (R-Calif.), Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-Fla.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Mark Pocan (D-Wis.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Michael Capuano (D-Mass.), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Richard M. Nolan (D-Minn.), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.), Raúl R. Labrador (R-Idaho), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), David Schweikert (R-Ariz.), Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.), Jamie Raskin (D-Md.), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D- Va.), Mia Love (R-Nev.), Albio Sires (D-N.J.), Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Kurt Schrader (R-Wash.), Dina Titus (D-Nev.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-District of Columbia), Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), Mark Sanford (R-S.C.), Carol Shea-Porter (D-N.H.), Paul D. Tonko (D-N.Y.), John Yarmuth (D-Ky.), H. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Ron Kind (D-Wis.), Andy Biggs (R-Ky.), John Garamendi (D-Calif.), Jason Lewis (R-Minn.), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-Ga.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Grace F. Napolitano (D-Calif.), Ted W. Lieu (D-Calif.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-Calif.), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-Conn.), David N. Cicilline (D-R.I.), Robin L. Kelly (D-Ill.), Al Green (D-Texas), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-Ala.), Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.), Yvette D. Clarke (D-N.Y.), Rod Blum (R-Iowa), Marcia L. Fudge (D-Ohio), Adriano Espaillat (D-N.Y.), Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C), Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas), Alma S. Adams (D-N.C.), David E. Price (D-N.C.), James E. Clyburn (D-S.C.), Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Dwight Evans (D-Penn.), John Lewis (D-Ga.), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.), and Carolyn B. Maloney (D-N.Y.). # # #
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), joined by Reps. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), F. James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Ted W. Lieu (D-Calif.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Jared Polis (D-Col.), Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), and Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) released a bipartisan letter to Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Director Christopher Wray calling into question the Bureau’s handling of Syed Rizwan Farook’s locked iPhone in the wake of the 2015 San Bernardino attack. The letter cites a troubling Department of Justice Office of Inspector General report which found the primary forensics unit responsible for unlocking the iPhone did not consult with third-party vendors, nor relevant FBI offices – including the unit which already knew of a potential solution. The report suggests that FBI officials were not exhausting all technical options “precisely because they wanted the suit against Apple to go forward.” The members write: “This report undermines statements that the FBI made during the San Bernardino litigation and consistently since then, that only the device manufacturer could provide a solution. Moreover, recent reports that companies such as Cellebrite and GrayShift have developed tools to cheaply unlock nearly every phone on the market, including every version of iOS, raise even more concerns that the FBI has not been forthcoming about the extent of the “Going Dark” problem.” In light of this troubling Inspector General report, along with reports that the FBI encountered 7,800 devices last year that it claims could not access due to encryption, the members ask FBI Director Wray to provide answers to the following questions: Have you consulted with relevant third-party vendors to understand what tools are available to help the FBI access device content? Do you agree that there are solutions available to help unlock or decrypt nearly every device on the market? If not, why are these solutions, particularly the ones discussed above, insufficient? Why can’t the FBI unlock the 7,800 devices? Have you attempted to use tools developed by third-parties to unlock these devices? Of these locked phones, how many are equipped with biometrics or how many have data available through a cloud service, which would provide additional means to access data or unlock phones? For each device that you have not used a third-party tool to unlock, what is the rationale for not doing so? Read the full letter here.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement after the Department of Justice has reportedly planned to end the Executive Office of Immigration Review’s (EOIR) Legal Orientation Program (LOP): “The Department of Justice’s decision to lapse the Executive Office of Immigration Review’s Legal Orientation Program is a shockingly bad decision that will harm our country. “LOP attorneys and paralegals provide a valuable service to immigrants by educating them on their rights. In 2016, LOP attorneys and paralegals assisted more than 60,000 detained individuals in 38 detention facilities across the country – helping them understand the court process, assessing their potential claims for relief, and connecting immigrants with pro bono counsel. These services are critically important because immigrants lack the right to government appointed counsel in immigration proceedings, and immigrants in detention are even less likely to have legal representation. A recent University of Pennsylvania study found that only 14 percent of immigrant detainees were represented by legal counsel. This educational program saves money for taxpayers by helping expedite proceedings and avoid expensive detention costs. “The Department of Justice claims the Legal Orientation Program must be paused to assess cost effectiveness. In fact, Department of Justice studies have already found that LOP reduces both court processing and detention stays – a value to immigrants and American taxpayers. This decision to pause LOP is not about cost effectiveness, efficiency or good governance, but rather about expediting and executing President Trump’s mass deportation agenda.” # # #
03.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement today regarding a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) decision to hold pregnant immigrant women in detention facilities: “The so-called “pro-life” Trump Administration’s decision to detain pregnant women is reckless and shameful. Pregnant women need specialized medical care throughout their pregnancy and immigration detention facilities are not equipped to provide specialized obstetric care. “The detention of pregnant women is particularly concerning because these centers often experience outbreaks of chicken pox, tuberculosis and other highly contagious diseases that can have life threatening consequences for the mother and baby. The medical neglect of pregnant women in immigration detention was documented in a recent administrative complaint to the DHS Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties. “Today, the Trump Administration ignored these concerns and issued a policy that prioritizes mass deportation and mass detention over common sense and humanity. This is an anti-woman, anti-immigrant and anti-family policy. It is mean spirited, unnecessary and should be reversed immediately.”
03.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement with House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) on Department of Justice Attorney General Jeff Sessions' lawsuit against California's sanctuary laws: "Attorney General Sessions is again attacking local communities who disagree with his anti-immigrant agenda. We strongly condemn the DOJ's decision to sue the State of California and we oppose their attempt to intervene in the affairs of local governance. The Department of Justice's decision to sue the state of California demonstrates just how far President Trump is willing to go to implement his extremist, mass deportation campaign promise. This is not about public safety — no reputable study has found that sanctuary cities have more crime. This is about fear mongering and hate." # # #
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), joined Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and the Co-Chairs of the Task Force on Election Security, Reps. Robert Brady (D-Pa.) and Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee to express support for the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) and to request that the EAC receive $14 million so it can continue to assist states in their urgent efforts to secure voting systems in advance of the 2018 midterm elections. The Election Security Act, introduced by Lofgren and members of the Election Security Task Force, would provide $1.7 billion for states such as California to replace aging, less secure voting machines with paper ballots, to secure their IT systems and voter databases, and train personnel on cybersecurity. According to the Department of Homeland Security, California was one of twenty-one states targeted by Russian hackers in the 2016 elections. At a press conference today, Lofgren said: "It's been more than a year since the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued its report assessing Russian activities and intentions in the 2016 elections. The report's findings were very clear: The Russian government directed efforts spread disinformation to the American electorate designed to undermine faith in our democracy. And the Russian government actively targeted voting systems in at least 21 states, attempting to infiltrate equipment vendors, political parties, and local election boards. This is an attack on our Democracy, and it must be taken seriously. But here we are – more than a year later – and the Trump Administration along with the Republican Congress have done nothing to prevent a future attack on our elections." The members also request $400 million under the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA) for states to use to replace aging and vulnerable voting machines with paper ballots and to provide cybersecurity training. With the first primary of the 2018 election season being held today, the next federal election is only months away and timing to secure our elections from Russian meddling is critical. Excerpts from letter: Intelligence officials continue to warn that our state-based electoral system is a target for foreign meddling and cyber-attacking, and we believe this money is necessary to protect American elections against the possibility of imminent attack. The EAC is the only federal agency charged with making American elections more secure, accessible, accurate, and transparent. It has built strong relationships with state and local election officials as well as cybersecurity experts, and has been vital to helping states understand and respond to the threats confronting their election infrastructure. The EAC has worked diligently, with a bare-bones budget, over the past few years to provide guidance on cybersecurity and election technology. But at this critical time, the Commission needs additional resources to fully respond to the needs of the states. We cannot leave states to their own devices in defending against the sophisticated cyber tactics of foreign governments. An attack on the electoral infrastructure in one state is an attack on all of democracy in America. We urge you to fully fund HAVA and provide the EAC with the support it needs so that the federal government can meaningfully assist states in securing our election systems. Link to Letter # # #
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement tonight after the Republican Congress failed to fund the federal government: "As of midnight on January 20th, hundreds of thousands of Federal employees and businesses that contract with the government are furloughed until action to appropriate funds is taken. Many Federal employees and contractors that continue to work may not be paid during the shutdown. I want residents in California's 19th Congressional District to know that my offices in San Jose, CA, and Washington, D.C., will remain open and my staff and I will do everything in our power to help constituents navigate federal agencies that are being impacted by the government shutdown, and to help them get the services they need. "It's important to note that recipients will continue to receive their Social Security and SSI checks, the mail will still be delivered, and some essential functions of government will continue – though the federal government's capacity will be greatly hampered. "Republicans control every lever of the Federal Government. They hold the White House, as well as majorities in the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. Lurching from one crisis to the next, and funding the government for only weeks at a time is not legitimate governing. It is irresponsible. Allowing the far-right extremists of the Republican party to dictate the agenda of Congress and grind our government to a halt is an unacceptable dereliction of duty. "Our President has scuttled bipartisan agreements reached in both the House and Senate. I'll do my best to help bring this sad chapter to an end by working to craft the bipartisan agreements that will bring the nation together instead of further dividing us."Learn more about how the federal government shutdown might affect you here. # # #
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON—Twelve members of the United States Senate and 33 members of the United States House filed a Congressional amicus brief in the appeal of the case City of Chicago v. Sessions, which is the lawsuit that the City of Chicago brought in August seeking a preliminary injunction to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) from blocking critical violence prevention funds from American cities in order to boost the Trump Administration's extreme immigration agenda. In July, DOJ attempted to place new and onerous conditions on local law enforcement's access to federal funding through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG) program, forcing cities to choose between redirecting already scarce resources from local policing efforts to enforcing federal immigration laws or else sacrificing vital violence prevention funding. In September, a federal district court judge granted the City's request for a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of these conditions, holding that the conditions exceeded the Attorney General's statutory authority and violated the separation of powers doctrine. DOJ appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The members of Congress filed their brief in support of affirming the judgment of the district court. "Congress established this grant program to provide states and localities with funding to determine what programs and approaches to law enforcement and public safety will work best in different communities around the country. The grant conditions at issue in this case undermine Congress's carefully considered plan in establishing this grant program, as well as fundamental constitutional principles that give Congress, not the executive branch, the power to make laws establishing conditions on the receipt of federal financial assistance," the lawmakers wrote. The amicus brief is signed by U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Jack Reed (D-RI), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI); and U.S. Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Val Butler Demings (D-FL), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Tom O'Halleran (D-AZ), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Eric Swalwell (D-CA). The full amicus brief is available here. ###
01.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) today released a joint statement with Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), after the Trump Administration announced its decision to strip Temporary Protected Status (TPS) from Salvadorans: "President Trump's decision to strip Temporary Protected Status from Salvadorans, many of whom have legally lived and worked in this country for decades, is shameful and wrong. "Over the past years, El Salvador has been gripped in a crisis of extreme violence. El Salvador has among the highest murder rates in the world, including one of the highest rates of femicide. In 2015, a woman was murdered every 16 hours in El Salvador. Further compounding the sense of fear generated by these murders is the inability of the Salvadoran government to hold persecutors accountable. From 2010 to 2013, 95 percent of murders in the region were unsolved or unprosecuted. "Yet in one stroke, today's decision from President Trump rips legal status from nearly 200,000 Salvadorans, many of whom have spent decades legally in the United States, starting families, working, studying, and contributing to their communities. It forces them to reconcile the danger that will face their families and loved ones upon return to El Salvador, with the prospect of tearing their families apart, and the uncertainty of undocumented status in the United States. This will not just affect Salvadorans, but also their U.S. citizen spouses and children, the American employers and employees who depend on them, and the countless communities across the Unites States they helped build and live in today. "In the short term, Trump may appease his base with this decision, but the continued degradation of our humanitarian immigration policies will have long-lasting impact on the success and prosperity of our Nation. Economic analysis suggests that today's decision to deport Salvadoran TPS holders will cost the United States $31 billion over the next 10 years. "Much like the decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, today's TPS announcement is an indication that the Trump Administration's grievances extend to all immigrants, including those with legal work authorization. It is clear this Administration's only immigration policy priority is mass deportation." ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – At a Democratic Caucus meeting this morning, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) announced to her colleagues her intention to seek the top Democratic position on the House Judiciary Committee should an official vacancy occur pursuant to House Democratic Caucus Rules. Below is a statement from Lofgren: "Whenever an official vacancy at the top Democratic position of the Judiciary Committee may occur in accordance with Caucus Rules, I will put my credentials forward for my colleagues' consideration. I am confident that, as a 23-year veteran of the Committee with nearly 9 years of prior staff service, I fully meet all the criteria for the position as outlined in Caucus Rule 21. That rule states that, in selecting a successor to a Ranking Member vacancy, the Democratic Caucus "shall consider all relevant factors, including merit, length of service on the committee and degree of commitment to the Democratic agenda, and the diversity of the Caucus," and that the top Committee position "need not necessarily follow seniority." "As my colleagues and others are aware, I continue to make extraordinary efforts to help regain a Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. I will continue in these efforts, and in my determination to advance Democrats' collective agenda within the Judiciary Committee jurisdiction, including reforming our broken immigration system, protecting voting rights and civil rights, shielding DREAMers from deportation, conducting rigorous oversight of the Trump Administration, ensuring American's Constitutional rights are protected, and reforming our criminal justice system." # # #
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today regarding Congressman John Conyers Jr.:"The reports about Congressman Conyers are as serious as they get. The Committee on Ethics should take up this matter immediately with a goal of promptly assessing the validity of the news account. This reported behavior cannot be tolerated in the House of Representatives or anywhere else."
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today regarding the Trump Administration's decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals in the United States: "The Trump Administration's callous decision to strip some 50,000 vulnerable Haitians of Temporary Protected Status will harm both the U.S. and Haiti. Haiti is recovering from multiple hurricanes, food insecurity, an earthquake, and a full-scale cholera epidemic. Forcing tens of thousands to return to Haiti will devastate not only their lives, but our ally's prospects of recovery. "The return of Haitian TPS holders would do more than harm Haiti's GDP—25% of which flows from U.S. remittances—it also damages our own economy. TPS recipients from Haiti are significant contributors to the U.S economy and the U.S. GDP stands to lose $2 billion dollars over the next ten years if Haitian TPS holders are deported to Haiti. Donald Trump's mass deportation agenda has once again produced a moral and economic disaster. During the 18-month extension for Haitian TPS holders, Congress must act to find a durable solution for Haiti and for Haitians put at risk by the Trump Administration." # # #
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Reps. Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today announced their bipartisan push to amend and improve the USA Liberty Act, to ensure that the bill adequately reform's a sweeping, secretive government spying program: "Although the USA Liberty Act makes some necessary reforms, as currently drafted, we believe the bill does not adequately protect the Constitutional rights of Americans. As written, the bill allows the National Security Agency (NSA) to continue warrantless searches of US persons' data without restriction, and in most circumstances will also allow the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to continue searching the Section 702 database without a warrant." "We will offer an amendment that provides the level of constitutional protections that the American people deserve, while affording intelligence agencies the authority necessary to target foreign terrorists, criminals and other overseas intelligence targets. This amendment upholds the Fourth Amendment and ends the warrantless backdoor searches of Americans' calls, emails, texts and other communications. Multiple votes by the whole House of Representatives show that support for shutting this backdoor loophole is strong and bipartisan." # # #
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) Ranking Member of the House Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following joint statement today on the Trump Administration's decision to strip Temporary Protected Status from Nicaraguans: "The Trump Administration's decision to strip Temporary Protected Status from Nicaraguans who have lived in this country for nearly 20 years is wrong. Instead of working on solutions to improve our economy, strengthen global leadership and expand innovation, this Administration has shown once again that its only immigration policy agenda is mass deportation." # # #
11.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement today during an oversight hearing of of the Executive Office for Immigration Review.: "The last time the Immigration subcommittee gathered for an EOIR oversight hearing, we heard testimony from the former EOIR Director, Juan Osuna. In August of this year, Juan passed away suddenly, and I would like to take a moment to acknowledge Juan's life and service to this country. "Juan worked for seventeen years as senior immigration legal advisor in the Justice Department for both Democratic and Republican administrations. He was a former Board of Immigration Appeals Judge and former Associate Deputy Attorney General in charge of immigration policy at the Department of Justice. Juan had a remarkable career in public service and he will be greatly missed. And I would like to extend my heartfelt condolences to his family over this loss. --- "We are assembled here to take a close look at the administration of our immigration court system. The Executive Office of Immigration Review currently employs 339 immigration judges in 58 courtrooms around the country. Immigration judges have a complex, often thankless task of making sophisticated legal decisions with decisive speed. Because there is no right to government appointed counsel, immigration judges often have to act as a fact-finder and legal researcher to ensure that the result in each case is just, fair and in accordance with legal precedent. "The difficulty of this task is magnified by the severity of the consequences. Immigration judge Dana Leigh Marks once said that immigration proceedings are like "death penalty cases heard in traffic court settings." This is particularly true for asylum seekers, children and other vulnerable populations. "Yet despite these difficulties, the Trump Administration has taken steps towards imposing numeric and performance quotas on immigration judges. This could add an additional obstacle to the immigration judge juggling act by requiring faster case completions with fewer continuances and shorter evidentiary hearings. In his written testimony, our witness states that "EOIR is transforming its institutional culture to emphasize the importance of completing cases." He claims that this will improve the efficiency of our court system, but I don't think it will do more, except increase the number of immigration removals, speedy deportations and increased appeals in our federal court system. "Much of our discussion today will focus on the immigration court backlog and ways that this backlog can be reduced. I want to start by saying that Congress must fully fund the hiring of immigration judges, law clerks, technology and infrastructure. The immigration court backlog will not be fully remedied by policy shifts alone, it must include sufficient appropriations. "But the immigration backlog is not one that happened overnight. There are reasons for the backlog. "First, immigration enforcement, specifically funding for ICE and CBP has far outpaced the funding of our immigration courts. From 2002 to the present day, funding for immigration enforcement increased by over 400%. ICE and CBP went from a budget of $4.5 billion in 2002 to over $20 billion in 2017. In contrast EOIR's budget only increased by 70%. This means is that at the same time that ICE and CBP are funneling cases into the immigration court system, the courts are not given requisite amounts of resources to adjudicate with speed and efficiency and it's created a massive bottleneck and we are seeing the effects of this backlog today. "EOIR currently has approximately 640,000 cases pending and in some courts, immigrants can wait three to five years to receive a final decision on their case. Immigration judges currently have an average case load of close to 1,900 cases. For perspective, the average caseload of a U.S. District Court Judge is 440. "Second, under both the Obama and the Trump Administration, EOIR has implemented policies that prioritize cases at the Southern border to the detriment of cases in the interior of the country. Under President Obama, EOIR implemented a "rocket docket" that expedited the cases of recent border crossers. These cases primarily consisted of children and families from Central America who were fleeing violence and seeking asylum. EOIR implemented a "last in, first out" strategy which meant that removal cases of immigrants who had been already waiting for months or years were further delayed. "Under the Trump Administration, EOIR moved immigration judges from already backlogged courts to detention centers along the Southern border. News media reports that many of these judges sat in empty courtrooms with little to do. In his written testimony, our witness states that the mobilized judges completed approximately 2,700 more cases than expected if they had not been detailed. But what he failed to mention that during this so called "surge" of immigration judges, over 20,000 non-detained immigration court hearings were rescheduled. "We all agree that our border must remain secure and the immigration courts must ensure that those who enter our country seeking protection be afforded due process and a full and impartial hearing in a prompt manner. But this cannot come at the expense of immigration court backlogs in the interior of the country. "Lastly, one of the primary reasons for the immigration court backlog is the continued lack of representation particularly for children and other vulnerable populations. When a respondent, particularly a child, appears in immigration court without legal representation, an immigration judge will spend a considerable amount of time assessing the child and determining her legal options. This is precisely what a judge should do when a vulnerable child is presented in a courtroom without legal representation. But it nevertheless creates delays for other respondents. "The National Association of Immigration Judges (NAIJ) has explained that "when noncitizens are represented by attorneys, Immigration Judges are able to conduct proceedings more expeditiously and resolve cases more quickly." This conclusion is supported by outside economic consulting firms, which found that government funded counsel would save the country $38 million through expedited hearing processes and reduced detention. "This is why I am proud to be the lead sponsor for the Fair Day in Court for Kids Act of 2017. My bill would provide government counsel to children and particularly vulnerable individuals. This would help reduce the immigration court backlog, save the government money and ensure that the due process rights of children are protected. "I hope my Republican colleagues join me in sponsoring this bill and I look forward to a substantive discussion on our immigration court system today and I yield back the balance of my time.
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following reports that a ten-year-old disabled child was taken into custody by Border Patrol agents immediately after emergency surgery at the Driscoll's Children hospital in Corpus Christi, U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) wrote to Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke today raising concerns that the child's detention is unjust, inhumane, and will create community-wide fear resulting in immigrants not seeking medical care, even for their children. According to news reports, Rosamaria Hernandez was brought to the United States as a three-month-old baby. She suffers from cerebral palsy, and was detained after her ambulance crossed a Border Patrol checkpoint traveling from Laredo to Corpus Chirsti. Border Patrol agents followed her to the hospital and waited outside her hospital room. The letter reads: "The Trump Administration has repeatedly told the American people that DHS enforcement efforts regarding immigration detention and deportation would focus on the "bad hombres" and the "gang members." Rosamaria Hernandez is neither. She is a vulnerable, disabled child who recently underwent a surgical operation. She needs to be with her family and not in immigration custody. "This is yet another example of the Trump Administration failing to follow DHS Sensitive Locations guidelines. The DHS Sensitive Location memo states that enforcement actions shall not occur at hospitals unless there are exigent circumstances. These exigent circumstances include national security, terrorism, an imminent risk of death, violence or physical harm, or an imminent danger to public safety. "In this case, this vulnerable child presented no risk of terrorism, danger to the community, nor to the public safety. On the contrary, DHS's decision to detain a 10-year-old child with cerebral palsy who just received emergency surgery only risks the child's life and her well-being. It increases her risk of post-operative infection and medical complications." A link to the full letter is here. Zoe Lofgren is the Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. John Conyers Jr. is the Senior Democrat on the full House Judiciary Committee. # # #
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, delivered the following statement today during markup in the House Judiciary Committee of the Agriculture Guestworker Act, a Republican bill that would undercut the U.S. workforce with a low-wage guest worker program. Statement of Rep. Zoe Lofgren Tuesday, October 24, 2017 *** "Like Ranking Member Conyers, I must also begin by expressing disappointment at the evolution this bill has taken. "The version of the bill which was set for markup 3 weeks ago took at least one step in the right direction by providing a way for employers to sponsor a few undocumented farmworkers for legal residence. The existing workforce has been here for a long time, they're highly skilled, and need to be stabilized. "Now even this provision is gone. "Surveys indicate that at least half of U.S. farmworkers—about 1.2 million—are undocumented. And a 2016 survey by the Department of Agriculture reveals that a massive 93% of foreign-born farmworkers have been here for at least 5 years, and 55% have been here for at least 15 years. Many have spouses and children here. Some have grandchildren here. "In short, for many farmworkers, the United States is their home. "Prior bipartisan compromises recognized this fact. Under such compromises, farmworkers and their families were afforded a reliable and meaningful path to permanent residence, while at the same time incentivizing them to remain in the agricultural sector. "The country would benefit from a more structured and stable workforce with increasingly productive workers. That is the best way to control illegal immigration. To the extent that job opportunities are secured by legal workers in a more stable labor market with increased earnings for farmworkers through longer periods of employment, the "pull" factor for unlawful immigration is reduced. "It is also worth noting that those compromises did not just have bipartisan support in both houses. They were widely supported by stakeholders across the ag sector, including farmers large and small, fruit and vegetable producers, dairy farmers, sheepherders, beekeepers, landscaping, and farm bureaus throughout the country. "Instead of stabilizing this workforce, the AG Act would further destabilize and impoverish it. Yes, the bill provides undocumented workers with the opportunity to obtain temporary guestworker status. But that status does not extend to family members. It requires that the worker frequently leave and remain outside the country. And it makes the worker completely dependent on their employers for the mere chance to return to their families and homes. "This isn't a realistic avenue for people who have developed deep roots in the country after living here for decades. While I understand the motivation behind the effort, it just won't work. "What I really don't understand is the motivation for other parts of the bill. The main component of the bill is the creation of a new program that initially allows employers to bring in 450,000 new workers per year. This cap can increase every year depending on program usage. And because the visas are good for up to 3 years, the numbers of guestworkers in the United States would likely far exceed that cap. Under the program, millions of guestworkers would be in the United States at the same time. "Now you don't normally hear Members on my side of the aisle complain about immigrants taking American jobs. That's because in the free market, immigrants tend to complement U.S. workers, rather than compete directly against them. Although there are sometimes short-term negative effects, economists across the board conclude that immigrants help to grow the economy, while increasing wages and opportunities for all U.S. workers over the long term "That's in a free market. But this bill appears designed to ensure that employers can easily displace their current workers with significantly cheaper foreign labor. Importantly, guestworker programs like the one in the bill do not follow free market principles. The workers have no meaningful opportunity to negotiate their wages, nor can they freely switch employers. "This is why current guestworker programs use wage systems that are pegged to going wages in the relevant occupation and geographic area. And contrary to Chairman Goodlatte's comment, this is not some bureaucratic imposition, this is a result of the U.S. Department of Agriculture doing a wage-rate survey based on the wages actually paid by farmers. Given that foreign workers don't have the negotiating power of U.S. workers; these wage systems are the only way to ensure that foreign workers can't be used to displace American workers. "This bill has no system. It simply creates – I would ask for an additional minute. As Mr. Conyers had pointed out, it eliminates the protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act and allows for the deduction of transit fees and the like. It could end up paying wages that are less than the minimum wage - including in forestry, because it includes not temporary traditional Ag workers but forestry, a full-time job that pays $20-22 an hour. "As currently written this bill would authorize employers to bring in an army of guestworkers to do battle with U.S. workers across various sectors of our economy. This bill is a travesty and I hope we will defeat it." # # #
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.­— Reps. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., Ted Poe, R-Texas, Beto O'Rourke, D-Texas, Justin Amash, R-Mich., Ted Lieu, D-Calif., and Thomas Massie, R-Ky., introduced the USA RIGHTS Act in the House of Representatives today. The legislation reforms a sweeping, secretive government spying program to protect the Constitutional rights of Americans, while giving intelligence agencies authority to target foreign terrorists, criminals and other overseas intelligence targets. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., and a total of 11 senators today introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Reforming and Improving the Government's High-Tech Surveillance (USA RIGHTS) Act—is co-sponsored in the Senate by: Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wisc., Sen. Bernie Sanders, D-Vt., Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii., Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass, and Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont. The bill reforms Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to end warrantless backdoor searches of Americans' calls, emails, texts and other communications that are routinely swept up under a program designed to spy on foreign targets. The sweeping authority has been clouded in secrecy, in part because the government refuses to answer essential questions about how it impacts Americans, including who can be targeted and how many American communications the government collects. "The USA RIGHTS Act is the best way to shut the backdoor on warrantless spying and to protect Americans' constitutional rights," said Lofgren. "As evidenced by multiple votes by the whole House of Representatives, support for these reforms is strong and bipartisan. While there are multiple section 702 reform efforts currently underway, these efforts have yet to provide the level of constitutional protections that the American people deserve." "Americans Fourth Amendment rights are at stake," said Poe. "Our bill protects individual freedoms while maintaining intelligence agencies the ability to continue to protect the United States. The days of government searching through Americans private data while skirting through back doors without a warrant must end. The U.S.A. Rights Act ends the warrantless surveillance of Americans through section 702. This makes liberty paramount. Americans should not be forced to sacrifice individual liberty and constitutional rights for false security." "Without common-sense protections for Americans' liberties, this vast surveillance authority is nothing less than an end-run around the Constitution," said Wyden. "Our bill gives intelligence agencies the authority they need to protect our country, but safeguards our essential freedoms with new provisions requiring judicial oversight and pushing back on the creeping expansion of secret law." "Congress must not continue to allow our constitutional standard of ‘innocent until proven guilty' to be twisted into ‘If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear.' The American people deserve better from their own government than to have their Internet activity swept up in warrantless, unlimited searches that ignore the Fourth Amendment. Our bill institutes major reforms that prove we can still protect our country while respecting our Constitution and upholding fundamental civil liberties," said Sen. Paul. "Unlike the other proposals recently offered in the House and Senate, the USA RIGHTS Act makes substantial reforms that seek to meaningfully mitigate the risk Americans will have their privacy violated," said Amash. "Requiring a warrant for a search of information or personal data if the inquiry is about an America citizen is simply the constitutional and right thing to do," said O'Rourke. "The USA RIGHTS Act is a bipartisan, bicameral and basic, commonsense piece of legislation that safely reforms Section 702." Read a one-page summary of the bill here. A full summary of the bill is here. The full text of the bill is here. The USA RIGHTS Act has been endorsed by a broad coalition of 42 grassroots, civil liberties and government transparency advocates, including FreedomWorks, Demand Progress, American Civil Liberties Union. Read the full list of endorsers here and statements of support here. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) Ranking Member of the House Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after an annual refugee consultation with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Elaine Duke in which officials confirmed the Trump Administration would set an historically low refugee ceiling of 45,000 for the 2018 fiscal year: "The Trump Administration's decision today to cut refugee admissions to an historic low of 45,000 is an affront to the United States' legacy as a protector of oppressed people. "The U.S. Refugee program was created in the aftermath of World War II. At that time, we rightly rejected anti-Semitic ideology and embraced our role as a beacon of hope and freedom for those in need. We admitted immigrant survivors of the Holocaust because true global leadership required a tangible commitment to humanitarian protection. "Since that time, U.S. refugee protection has never been a partisan issue, nor a political one. Presidents from both parties have long recognized that the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program is essential to global stability and our reputation as a leader on the world stage. That's why experts from both political parties—including Republicans Condoleezza Rice and Michael Chertoff—understand and espouse the program's value in safeguarding our nation's security. Indeed, the program is often referred to as the "crown jewel" of U.S. diplomacy. "Today's decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II. It is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values that make America great." # # #
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. (Sept. 26, 2017)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. John Conyers, Jr., the Ranking Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, sent a letter to White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly and a letter to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price requesting documents about reports that the White House suppressed an internal study highlighting the positive net economic contributions of refugees. "Our nation's public policies should be based on a thorough understanding of empirical facts and data, but if these recent reports are true, it appears that the Trump Administration may have rejected these facts in order to present a biased, incomplete, and ultimately false political narrative," the Ranking Members wrote. "It is critical for Congress and the American people to understand who in the Trump Administration engaged in these actions and why." Last week, the New York Times reported that White House officials rejected a study by HHS reporting that refugees brought in "$63 billion more in government revenues over the past decade than they cost" because the draft contradicted the Trump Administration's political goal of reducing the number of refugees entering the country next year. The Times reported that White House officials said the study was "illegitimate and politically motivated" and that the new, final report "asserts that the per-capita cost of a refugee is higher than that of an American." The Times reported that the Trump Administration achieved its skewed results by examining only expenditures by refugees while excluding all of their financial contributions. "If this account is accurate, the Trump Administration's suppression of this draft report suggests an Orwellian dismissal of fact-based analysis in service of the worst kind of political pessimism," the Ranking Members wrote. "It also represents a potential violation of Section 207(e)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which requires the Administration to provide Congress with ‘an analysis of the anticipated social, economic, and demographic impact of [refugees]' admission to the United States.'" The Members requested all drafts of the study, including the final version, and all communications referring or relating to any draft of the report, including between federal officials, agencies, and non-governmental entities or individuals. They also requested a briefing by next week with the appropriate White House and HHS officials involved in producing the report. Click here to read the letter to the White House. Click here to read the letter to HHS.
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Subcommittee on Immigration Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), and Representatives Sander Levin (MI-09), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following joint statement after President Donald Trump announced new travel restrictions: "Donald Trump's proclamation is the latest version of his earlier discriminatory measures—a Muslim ban 3.0. President Trump's ban is the same discriminatory policy that will make America less safe. The White House is not fooling anyone by adding North Korea and Venezuela. Travel to the United States from North Korea is already restricted, and the bar on Venezuela reaches only select government officials and their families. This blanket ban is wide-reaching and still includes six Muslim-majority countries. Because this version of the ban extends indefinitely, it's the most dangerous one yet." ###
09.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC [09/22/17] – Today, House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI), Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Oregon Representatives Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) pressed the Acting Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to fully investigate the actions of ICE officers toward a U.S. citizen outside of the Washington County, Oregon Courthouse. On September 18, 2017, plainclothes ICE officers inappropriately identified Mr. Isidro Andrade-Tafolla, a long-time employee of Washington County and a U.S. citizen, as an undocumented immigrant. Without identifying themselves as federal officers, the agents demanded that Andrade-Tafolla provide his name and identification. When they apparently recognized their error, the agents then left without providing any explanation or apology. "The ICE detention and interrogation of a U.S. citizen, even for a brief period of time, is disturbing and possibly unconstitutional," wrote the lawmakers. "However, this incident is even more troubling because the officers in question failed to identify themselves as ICE officers. Mr. Andrade-Tafolla had no way of knowing who the ICE officers were or whether they were kidnappers or participants in other criminal activity. The use of plainclothes officers who refuse to identify themselves as law enforcement officers is not conducive to a law enforcement mission and it harkens back to the use of secret police." They continued, "We have repeatedly expressed our opposition to the expansion of immigration enforcement in our streets, courthouses, and communities. We have raised concerns that immigration enforcement could be used to racially profile, terrorize, and harass immigrants and those perceived to be immigrants. This case in Hillsboro exemplifies these concerns and demonstrates how expanded ICE enforcement affects citizens and immigrants alike." Earlier this year, Bonamici – supported by Blumenauer, Conyers, and Lofgren – introduced legislation to prohibit immigration enforcement actions, including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance, at "sensitive locations," including courthouses. The full text of the letter is available here or below. Dear Acting Director Homan: This week, two plainclothes Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers interrogated and questioned a United States Citizen in Hillsboro, Oregon.[1] Isidro Andrade-Tafolla, a longtime Washington County employee, was approached by plainclothes ICE officers and asked for his name and identification. A video of the encounter shows that Mr. Andrade-Tafolla and his wife repeatedly asked the officers for identification, told the officers that they did not know them, and asked them whether they worked for ICE. The officers had no "ICE" insignia on their clothes and refused to identify themselves as ICE officers during the encounter. The plainclothes ICE officers showed Mr. Andrade-Tafolla a picture of another Latino man and stated that Mr. Andrade-Tafolla was their person of interest. Mr. Andrade-Tafolla and his wife explained that the man in the photograph was a different person, but the ICE officers did not leave. Finally, Mr. Andrade-Tafolla's wife threatened to call the local police and the ICE officers left the scene. The ICE detention and interrogation of a U.S. citizen, even for a brief period of time, is disturbing and possibly unconstitutional. However, this incident is even more troubling because the officers in question failed to identify themselves as ICE officers. Mr. Andrade-Tafolla had no way of knowing who the ICE officers were or whether they were kidnappers or participants in other criminal activity. The use of plainclothes officers who refuse to identify themselves as law enforcement officers is not conducive to a law enforcement mission and it harkens back to the use of secret police. We have repeatedly expressed our opposition to the expansion of immigration enforcement in our streets, courthouses, and communities. We have raised concerns that immigration enforcement could be used to racially profile, terrorize, and harass immigrants and those perceived to be immigrants. This case in Hillsboro exemplifies these concerns and demonstrates how expanded ICE enforcement affects citizens and immigrants alike. We request that you inform us how the Department is responding to the Hillsboro incident and what steps ICE will be taking to ensure that future such incidents do not occur. Please respond to the following questions by October 9, 2017. 1) Is ICE reviewing this incident to determine if all agency policies were followed? 2) What is the ICE protocol regarding the use of plainclothes agents? Please provide the policy memo or requisite regulation. 3) Are ICE officers required to identify themselves when asked? If so, please provide the relevant policy memo or regulation. 4) Have the ICE officers involved in this incident been disciplined? If so, what disciplinary actions have been taken? 5) What criteria do ICE officers use to identify an individual from a photograph? How does ICE ensure that photographs are not used in furtherance of racial profiling? Please provide the relevant policy memo or regulation. 6) What apologies, if any, have been made to Mr. Isidro Andrade-Tafolla and his family? 7) Has ICE engaged with Hillsboro community in response to this incident and assured them that U.S. citizens will not be targeted for interrogation and/or apprehension? If so, please explain. Addressing the unlawful and improper apprehension of U.S. citizens is of utmost importance to us as Members of Congress. We trust you will respond to this inquiry in an urgent matter. Sincerely, ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member on the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after news reports indicated the Trump Administration was considering establishing a refugee ceiling of less than 50,000 for the 2018 fiscal year: "The Trump administration is reportedly considering establishing a refugee ceiling of less than 50,000 for the 2018 fiscal year. If true, this would be shameful and contrary to American values. "America has long led the world in refugee resettlement, and our annual refugee admissions ceiling has averaged 94,000 per year since passage of the Refugee Act of 1980. Under President Reagan, it exceeded 200,000. These levels not only honored our values as a nation of immigrants and a beacon of hope, they also supported our economic, foreign policy, and national security interests. "By any measure, Donald Trump's reported consideration of a refugee ceiling of 50,000 or lower is extreme. But it is particularly reprehensible given the current global refugee and humanitarian crisis. Today, over 65 million around the world find themselves displaced from their homes. "Ronald Reagan saw America as a shining city on the hill and beacon of hope and welcome. Faced with an opportunity to help this most vulnerable and disadvantaged population, Donald Trump would instead have us cower behind our walls. "While we would hope the Trump Administration heeds President Reagan's example, we call upon the President to issue a refugee admissions ceiling of least 75,000." # # #
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Nearly $5 million in federal grants to purchase 10 zero-emission shuttles and associated electric charging infrastructure for Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport was awarded over the past two months, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today. Two separate grants in the amounts of $1,662,498 and $3,194,980 were awarded in September and August 2017, respectively, by the U.S. Department of Transportation. These significant awards totaling nearly $5 million will support plans to purchase 10 all-electric buses to augment the airport's current fleet of compressed natural gas buses. Mineta Airport is located in an Environmental Protection Agency-designated nonattainment area for ozone and particulate matter and maintenance area for carbon monoxide. By reducing the use of conventional fuels, this grant will improve local air quality. "This additional federal investment in Mineta San Jose International Airport will improve passenger and employee health as well as help reduce local greenhouse gas emissions," said Lofgren. "I applaud the Mineta Airport for undertaking this environmentally conscious and commonsense initiative that will help improve air quality in Silicon Valley." "I greatly appreciate Congresswoman Lofgren and her team for their unwavering support of and advocacy for Mineta San Jose International Airport throughout her decades in office," said San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo. "Securing these significant grants allows SJC to add 10 electric, zero-emission buses to the Airport fleet to benefit travelers and employees alike, while also helping advance the City's ambitious sustainability goals." Lofgren has been involved in steering significant federal funding to Mineta San Jose International Airport. Over the past year, Lofgren helped Mineta secure more than $21 million for infrastructure improvements and perimeter security upgrades. Last month, Lofgren led area Members of Congress in requesting additional Customs and Border Protection staffing at Mineta to support the airport's rapid growth in international flight service. # # #
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced President Trump has decided to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay: "President Trump's cancellation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program creates a moral emergency for our nation. Some 800,000 DACA recipients brought to the United States as children are today vital members of our communities and economy. They are as American as any of us – except for paperwork. President Trump's decision to turn his back on them betrays our national character. "The threat of court proceedings is an inadequate excuse. President Trump has never been reluctant to go to court when he thinks it would benefit him. In this instance, over 100 law professors recently affirmed that "the legal authority for the Executive Branch to operate DACA…is crystal clear."[1] "The impetus for the President's action seems just as clear: an extremist, racist agenda. Seventy-eight percent of Americans oppose the deportation of such young people. [2] However, groups tied to the white nationalist movement have long sought DACA's destruction.[3] Once again, President Trump seems to bend to the will of extremists rather than mainstream Americans, just as he did while condoning white supremacists in Charlottesville. "Congress must stop this mass deportation of innocent young people. Democratic lawmakers already stand united in our support for DACA recipients, as we do in rejecting attempts to use them as props in broader anti-immigrant legislation. The Dream Act of 2017 (H.R. 3440), which I proudly co-sponsored, would grant them the legal status and path to citizenship that they deserve. The only question is whether Republicans will join the right side of history. "The moral stakes could not be higher. The fate of some 800,000 of our nation's young people who will forever consider America home hangs in the balance." ______[1]Stephen Yale-Loehr, Professor of Immigration Law Practice, Cornell Law School, et.al, (Aug. 14, 2017); available here. [2] Morning Consult, National Tracking Poll #170409 (Apr. 20-24, 2017); available here. [3] America's Voice, In Wake of White Supremacist Violence in Charlottesville & Imminent Threats to DACA, CNC Launches New Resource to Expose Attacks on DACA from Anti-Immigrant Organizations with Deep Ties to Racist Extremists (Aug. 30, 2017); available here. # # #
08.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, all House Judiciary Committee Democrats, led by Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), wrote to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (D-VA) to ask that he investigate Trump's pardon of controversial sheriff Joe Arpaio and related events. In July, Joe Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt after years of racially profiling and arresting individuals based on their perceived immigration status. In today's letter to Goodlatte, the members wrote, "Sheriff Arpaio was convicted for criminal contempt of court because he ignored orders from a federal judge to stop engaging in racial profiling. The pardon not only disregards the rule of law, it directly flouts the courts themselves by signaling that it is acceptable for parties to ignore court orders." The letter notes that for "125 years, presidents have worked through the Pardon Attorney to ensure that the power of clemency is fairly applied. President Trump chose to work around this mechanism and ignore DOJ policy calling for a waiting period of five years or more before considering a pardon application and the expression of regret or remorse by the applicant." It further details that "before resorting to a full pardon, President Trump asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions to simply drop the criminal case against Sheriff Arpaio," pointing out that the House Judiciary Committee "has long defended the view that presidents should avoid involvement in specific criminal cases in order to avoid even the perception of politicizing the administration of justice." The Members continued, "It is also our Committee's unique and pressing responsibility to conduct oversight of the President's use of executive power—particularly when that power is expressed as a pardon that only serves to endorse the transgressions committed by the offender. If we do not examine this use of the pardon power, we fear that the Committee will be seen by our constituents—and by future generations—as also having endorsed the Sheriff's conduct." Today's letter was signed by every Democratic member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, which includes: Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Karen Bass (D-CA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) and Brad Schneider (D-IL). Full text of the letter is available here and below. August 30, 2017 Chairman Bob Goodlatte House Committee on the Judiciary 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Chairman Goodlatte: Late on Friday, August 25, 2017—as the nation turned its attention to a devastating hurricane about to make landfall in Texas—President Trump issued a pardon of former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio for criminal contempt of court.[1] On Monday, President Trump noted that the issuance of the pardon was timed so that "the ratings would be far higher" as it was made public in the midst of the Hurricane Harvey coverage. We ask that you convene an oversight hearing on this controversial pardon and surrounding events as soon as possible. We ask for several reasons. The pardon sends an unequivocal signal that institutionalized racial profiling as practiced by Sheriff Arpaio is acceptable; the pardon is disrespectful to the rule of law in general and to the federal courts in particular; and the President issued the pardon in the complete absence of any advisory role by the Department of Justice and after the President had already asked Attorney General Sessions to drop the case completely. As you are well aware, although the President has wide constitutional authority to issue pardons, there is also ample precedent for our Committee to review pardons as controversial as this one.[2] At least four aspects of the Arpaio pardon require our immediate attention. First, this pardon represents a gross injustice. In case after case, Sheriff Arpaio and his subordinates were shown to have been intentionally violent and abusive.[3] He built a "tent city" to house inmates—a facility where temperatures can reach 145 degrees in the summer, and which Arpaio himself once called a "concentration camp."[4] In 2008, one federal judge found these practices to be flatly unconstitutional.[5] In 2011, another federal court ordered Arpaio to stop arresting individuals based solely on suspicion of their immigration status.[6] It was for his failure to obey this order, and for "lying to the judge's face" in subsequent court appearances, that Arpaio was referred by the federal court to the Department of Justice—and ultimately convicted—for criminal contempt.[7] We recognize that the Constitution grants the President the sweeping "power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States."[8] Still, that power can be abused. Based on a clear record of cruelty and open racism, Sheriff Arpaio is not worthy of reprieve. At a time when the nation is deeply divided on questions of race and justice—and the President has entangled his Administration in comments about neo-Nazis and Confederate statues—the decision to grant this particular pardon is both inappropriate and deeply disturbing. Second, it is highly problematic for the President to simply dismiss a pending criminal matter that was referred to the Department of Justice by a federal court. Sheriff Arpaio was convicted for criminal contempt of court because he ignored orders from a federal judge to stop engaging in racial profiling. The pardon not only disregards the rule of law, it directly flouts the courts themselves by signaling that it is acceptable for parties to ignore court orders. President Trump regularly and needlessly criticizes both the judiciary in general and specific judges on a personal basis.[9] This pardon adds insult to injury. Third, President Trump chose to issue this pardon directly—and not through the Office of the Pardon Attorney at the Department of Justice.[10] For 125 years, presidents have worked through the Pardon Attorney to ensure that the power of clemency is fairly applied. President Trump chose to work around this mechanism and ignore DOJ policy calling for a waiting period of five years or more before considering a pardon application and the expression of regret or remorse by the applicant. As you have argued, the Pardon Attorney is designed to "dissuade" presidents from simply making pardons at will.[11] President Trump may soon be tempted to issue pardons that stem from matters under investigation by Special Counsel Bob Mueller. We should be certain that the right structures are in place to temper those decisions well before they reach the President's desk. Fourth, before resorting to a full pardon, President Trump asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions to simply drop the criminal case against Sheriff Arpaio.[12] Although Department leadership is to be commended for advising the President that his request was inappropriate, the conversation fits into a larger pattern of improper contact between the Trump White House and the Department of Justice.[13] Our Committee has long defended the view that presidents should avoid involvement in specific criminal cases in order to avoid even the perception of politicizing the administration of justice. President Trump regularly ignores that standard. If our Committee is unwilling to even debate the matter, what is to stop this president—or any other president—from doing so again? We are not alone in raising these concerns. Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) disagrees with the decision, noting that "law enforcement officials have a special responsibility to respect the rights of everyone in the United States."[14] Senator John McCain (R-AZ) argues that the pardon "undermines [the President's] claim for the respect of rule of law, as Mr. Arpaio has shown no remorse for his actions."[15] Senator Jeff Flake would have "preferred that the President honor the judicial process and let it take its course."[16] You were similarly critical of a pardon our Committee examined in 2001: "Many executives have this power for the purpose of accomplishing justice or mercy as a last resort, where fairness simply has not taken hold in other aspects of our judicial process." [17] You argued that President Clinton had "abused this power" and "not used it" for the purposes you described.[18] These statements are directly on point with respect to President Trump's decision and demonstrate why the Arpaio pardon is worthy, at the very least, of further discussion by our Committee. We note that this letter represents the fifth time we have written to ask you to conduct oversight of the Trump Administration. Eight months after President Trump's inauguration, our Committee has yet to hold a single oversight hearing involving the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the Secretary or Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director or Acting Director of the FBI, or the Director of the Secret Service. Given that our Committee created an entire task force to examine "executive overreach" last Congress during President Obama's term, it is somewhat disturbing that we have not engaged in any comparable oversight of the Trump Administration. It is also our Committee's unique and pressing responsibility to conduct oversight of the President's use of executive power—particularly when that power is expressed as a pardon that only serves to endorse the transgressions committed by the offender. If we do not examine this use of the pardon power, we fear that the Committee will be seen by our constituents—and by future generations—as also having endorsed the Sheriff's conduct. We urge you to schedule oversight hearings on the Arpaio pardon and other pressing matters as soon as possible. ### [1] Devlin Barrett and Abby Phillip, Trump pardons former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio, Wash. Post, Aug. 25, 2017. [2] See Presidential Pardon Power, before the Subcomm. on the Constitution of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary, 107th Cong., Feb. 28, 2001 [hereinafter Presidential Pardon Power]. [3] James Fallows, Why the Arpaio Pardon Matters, The Atlantic, Aug. 27, 2017. See also Phoenix New Times (@phoenixnewtimes), Twitter, Aug. 25, 2017 10:01 ("We've been covering Joe Arpaio for more than 20 years. Here's a couple of things you should know about him…"). [4] James Ridgeway and Jean Casella, America's 10 Worst Prisons: Tent City, Mother Jones, May 3, 2013. [5] Graves v. Arpaio, No. CV-77-00479-PHX-NVW (D. Ariz. Oct. 28, 2008). [6] Melendres v. Arpaio, No. PHX-CV-07-02513-GMS (D. Ariz. Dec. 23, 2011). [7] Fernanda Santos, Judge Refers Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio for Criminal Prosecution, N.Y. Times, Aug. 19, 2016; Matt Zapotosky, Former Sheriff Joe Arpaio convicted of criminal contempt, Wash. Post, July 31, 2017. [8] U.S. Const., Art. II, Sec. 2. [9] See, e.g., Brent Kendall, Trump Says Judge's Mexican Heritage Presents ‘Absolute Conflict,' Wall St. Journal, June 3, 2016; President Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Feb. 4, 2017, 9:12 AM ("The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!"). [10] Gregory Korte, Trump's bold Joe Arpaio pardon breaks with presidential tradition, USA Today, Aug. 25, 2017. [11] Presidential Pardon Power, supra note 2 (statement of Rep. Bob Goodlatte). [12] Philip Rucker and Ellen Nakashima, Trump asked Sessions about closing case against Arpaio, an ally since ‘birtherism,' Wash. Post, Aug. 26, 2017. [13] See, e.g., Jim Sciutto, et al., FBI refused White House request to knock down recent Trump-Russia stories, CNN, Feb. 24, 2017; Adam Entous and Ellen Nakashima, Trump asked intelligence chiefs to push back against FBI collusion probe after Comey revealed its existence, Wash. Post, May 22, 2017; Maggie Haberman, et al., Trump Returns to Crisis Over Kushner as White House Tries to Contain It, N.Y. Times, May 27, 2017. [14] Peter Nicholas, House Speaker Paul Ryan Criticizes Donald Trump's Pardon for Joe Arpaio, Wall St. Journal, Aug. 26, 2017. [15] Id. [16] Id. [17] Presidential Pardon Power (statement of Rep. Bob Goodlatte). [18] Id.
08.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Does the President suffer from early stage dementia? Has the stress of office aggravated a mental illness crippling impulse control? Has emotional disorder so impaired the President that he is unable to discharge his duties? Is the President mentally and emotionally stable? Today, U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced a resolution that urges the Vice President and Cabinet to have the President examined by medical and psychiatric professionals to assist them in determining whether the President is unfit and unable to fulfill his Constitutional duties. Section 4 of the 25th Amendment of the United States Constitution outlines this obligation. As the resolution reads, "President Donald J. Trump has exhibited an alarming pattern of behavior and speech causing concern that a mental disorder may have rendered him unfit and unable to fulfill his Constitutional duties. "Many Americans, including many Republicans, have observed the President's increasingly disturbing pattern of actions and public statements that suggest he may be mentally unfit to execute the duties required of him," said Lofgren. "The President has not released a serious medical evaluation. Just as would be the case if the President were physically unable to execute the office of the President, this resolution urges those entrusted with the responsibility enshrined in the 25th Amendment to employ the services of medical and psychiatric professionals to help in their determination whether the President is mentally capable of carrying out his Constitutional responsibilities." Lofgren's resolution urges the Vice President and Cabinet to "quickly secure the services of medical and psychiatric professionals to examine the President… to determine whether the President suffers from mental disorder or other injury that impairs his abilities and prevents him from discharging his constitutional duties." Section 4 of the 25th Amendment states: "Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the powers and duties of the office as Acting President." A full copy of the resolution can be found here. # # #
08.16.2017	A new, nearly $3.2 million federal grant was awarded to the Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport to purchase six zero-emissions shuttle buses and associated charging infrastructure, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today. The $3,194,980 grant – awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation – will support plans to purchase all-electric buses to replace the airport's current fleet of compressed natural gas (CNG) buses. Mineta is located in an Environmental Protection Agency-designated nonattainment area for ozone and particulate matter and maintenance area for carbon monoxide. "This federal investment in Mineta transitions SJC airport shuttle buses to zero-emission vehicles that will improve passenger health while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions," said Lofgren. "I applaud Mineta for this green vehicle initiative that will help improve air quality in Silicon Valley." Lofgren has been instrumental in securing federal grants for Mineta San Jose International Airport. Last year, Lofgren helped Mineta receive more than $15 million for infrastructure improvements and perimeter security upgrades. Earlier this summer she also announced more than $1 million for infrastructure improvements and the purchase of new safety equipment. # # #
08.01.2017	Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and Zoe Lofgren, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, launched an investigation into reports that officials at U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) are turning away asylum seekers in violation of U.S. and international law. The Members sent letters to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Acting Secretary Elaine Duke and DHS Inspector General John Roth. Cummings and Lofgren described that they are "deeply troubled" by widespread reports of CBP agents illegally turning away asylum seekers fleeing from torture and war atrocities to the United States as their last beacon of hope. They further wrote: "Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, CBP must refer for interviews with asylum officers any individuals who are physically present or arrive in the United States with ‘an intention to apply for asylum.' International laws such as the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees also require CBP officers to process for interviews people who seek asylum on the grounds that they are being persecuted ‘for their race, religion, nationality,' as well as for their political opinions and other factors." In May 2017, Human Rights First issued a report documenting 125 cases of people and families who apparently were wrongfully denied access to U.S. asylum procedures at various points of entry, but noted that the actual number was likely much higher. In one case highlighted in the report, CBP agents told asylum seekers that "Trump says we don't' have to let you in" and that "you can't just show up here." Earlier this month, a group of immigration lawyers representing asylum seekers filed a class-action lawsuit against DHS, citing similar reports. They allege that CBP officials systemically turned away asylum seekers and used "misrepresentations, threats and intimidation, and verbal and physical abuse," in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Cummings and Lofgren urged the Inspector General to investigate the allegations, and requested the following information from DHS: 1. How many individual allegations, on a monthly basis, have been filed against CBP for wrongfully turning away asylum seekers between November 2016 and the present? 2. How many complaints from or on behalf of asylum seekers, on a monthly basis, have the Department or CBP investigated from November 2016 to present, how many have resulted in disciplinary action, and what types of disciplinary action have been taken? 3. Has the Department or CBP developed training materials to ensure that officials comply with applicable domestic and international laws pertaining to asylum seekers? If so, please specify what materials or screening mechanisms CBP employees have used and been trained or re-trained on, and provide those training materials to us. 4. Has the Department or CBP issued any new or revised guidance since January 20, 2017, regarding the admission of asylum seekers? If so, please provide the new or revised guidance. Click here to read the letter to Acting Secretary Duke. Click here to read the letter to Inspector General Roth.
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Senator Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii) today introduced the Science Laureates of the United States Act of 2017, bicameral legislation to establish a Science Laureate for the United States. Similar to the Poet Laureate, the Science Laureate of the United States would promote a greater appreciation of a field important for all Americans—raising the public's awareness about scientific feats and accomplishments, and inspiring others to pursue innovations in the science field. "Scientists like Albert Einstein, Jane Goodall, or Sally Ride can capture the public's attention and inspire Americans," said Representative Lofgren. "Establishing a Science Laureate will provide a platform for more scientists to inspire us. Science and technology is ever more important to the United States' competitive edge in the modern world. A Science Laureate can elevate, articulate, and promote science to the broader public, as well as be a role model for students by encouraging and inspiring them to be the innovators of tomorrow." "Our country's scientific achievements contribute to our national economy, while also improving and enhancing our local communities, but American students continue to lag behind their international peers in STEM proficiency," said Senator Hirono. "The Science Laureate of the United States will help motivate our students to enter into scientific fields – increasing their ability to compete in the global economy." The position of Science Laureate will serve both as an award for an exceptional scientist, as well as a pedestal from which he or she could speak to the nation as a credible independent, nonpartisan public advocate on the importance of Science broadly and the scientific issues of the day. This honorary position will be appointed by the National Science Foundation from nominees recommended by the National Academy of Science to serve for a one-year term. The bill is supported by Research!America, the Council on Undergraduate Research, the American Institute of Biological Sciences, the American Geophysical Union, the American Society of Agronomy, the Crop Science Society of America, the Soil Science Society of America, and the American Chemical Society. Original cosponsors of the Science Laureates of the United States Act include U.S. Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas), Donald S. Beyer (D-Va.), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Bill Foster (D-Ill.), Daniel W. Lipinski (D-Ill.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.), Mike Quigley (D-Ill.), Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Charlie Crist (D-Fla.), Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii), Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.), Marc Veasey (D-Texas), and Louise M. Slaughter (D-N.Y.). ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.) and 116 colleagues introduced the American Hope Act of 2017. Recent actions by State Attorneys General and the Trump Administration have put the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in peril. This bill would provide a permanent legislative solution for the more than 800,000 young people enrolled in DACA and put thousands of others on a path to earn permanent legal residency and eventual citizenship if they meet certain requirements. Members of House Democratic Leadership, the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Congressional Progressive Caucus, and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus gathered for a press conference in support of Dreamers, DACA, and this critical legislation. The full press conference can be seen here and the speakers included: CHC Immigration & Border Issues Task Force Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Ranking Member on Homeland Security Subcommittee Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Ranking Member on House Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05), House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (NY-14), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Judy Chu (CA-27), Congressional Progressive Caucus Chair Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), and Congressional Black Caucus Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33). Rep. Zoe Lofgren's remarks: "DACA recipients are at risk like they have not been for a number of years. "It's important that legislative actions be taken. This is fair to the young men and women who were brought there as children who are Americans in every way but their paperwork. "But this is the American Hope Act because this is what's good for America, not just these young people. "These young people, when they receive their DACA certification, were free to go and make huge contributions to our country as teachers, as lawyers, and in the medical profession. "They are working hard. They are paying taxes. They are making our county even better. "And we know that it is America's hope that people like this, who are contributing so much, be permitted to become fully regularized in our country. "This bill will fulfil their dream of becoming Americans not just in their hearts but in their paperwork as well. We have hope for America through this bill." ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) filed an amici curae brief asking the Supreme Court to uphold the decision of U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson (District of Hawaii), which enjoined portions of the guidance the Trump administration put in place after the Supreme Court's decision about which parts of the travel ban should be permitted to go into effect pending a decision on the merits. The Trump administration's guidance interpreting "bona fide relationship" excluded many family members and refugees working with resettlement agencies. Per the district court's decision, a broader category of family members (including grandparents) and refugees already vetted and approved by resettlement agencies would be able to enter the country pending the Supreme Court's decision on the merits of the travel ban. "Arbitrarily preventing grandparents from visiting their families and blocking refugees that agencies are working to resettle is cruel and contrary to the Supreme Court's order," said Senator Coons. "This Administration has misinterpreted the Supreme Court's order, and misconstrued the law with regard to what constitutes a bona fide relationship with a U.S. person or entity. We are urging the Supreme Court today to fix these egregious errors. And, by the way, as a new grandmother I know very well that "grandparent" is a close familial relationship," said Rep. Lofgren. The amici brief makes the following arguments: The administration's guidance on what familial relations are sufficiently "close" to be covered by the preliminary injunctions is at odds with the Supreme Court's order. The Government erroneously relied on the Immigration and Nationality Act's immigrant visa provisions in interpreting the scope of the Supreme Court's order.The Government's exclusion of refugees with a formal assurance from a U.S. resettlement agency is also at odds with the Supreme Court's order. On March 6, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order suspending entry into the U.S. of foreign nationals from six Muslim-majority countries. Two Courts of Appeals affirmed preliminary injunctions barring enforcement of a number of the EO's provisions. On June 26, 2017, the Supreme Court held that those injunctions should remain in place as to "respondents and those similarly situated." See Trump v. Int'l Refugee Assistance Project, 137 S. Ct. 2080, 2087 (2017) (per curiam). It granted the Government's request for a stay only "to the extent the injunctions prevent enforcement . . . with respect to foreign nationals who lack any bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States." Id. The Supreme Court explained that, for entry into the United States based on family connections, a "bona fide relationship with a person" requires "the sort of relationship" enjoyed by Respondents – that is, "a close familial relationship." Id. at 2088. Following the Supreme Court's order, the administration issued guidance that interpreted "close familial relationship" to bar grandparents, grandchildren, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and cousins of persons in the U.S. The administration's new guidance also excluded refugees who have a formal assurance from a refugee resettlement agency. The Respondents sought an injunction to block the administration's improper interpretation of the Supreme Court's order. On Monday, July 10, Judge Watson ordered the government to allow in refugees formally working with a resettlement agency in the U.S. His order also expanded the list of U.S. family relationships that refugees and visitors from six Muslim-majority countries can use to get into the country, including grandparents and grandchildren. On Friday, July 14, the Trump administration went to the Supreme Court to try again to block these family members and women and children fleeing violence. ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Lou Correa (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Stephanie Murphy (D-Fla.), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), and Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) introduced a resolution today recognizing the accomplishments and contributions of Vietnamese Americans. "In the 1980's under President Ronald Reagan, the United States resettled hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees, at times taking in more than 10,000 per month," said Lofgren. "In my congressional district and across the country we are vastly enriched by refugees from Vietnam. The largest number of Vietnamese Americans in the United States in the city of San Jose have created a tremendous business environment, raised wonderful children, and become a very valued, integral part of our community." "In light of the difficult and often tragic circumstances faced by Vietnamese refugees who came to the United States, it is my desire to recognize the accomplishments of Vietnamese Americans and the extraordinary contributions they have made to our nation," said Correa. "They have built a home in the United States and became a deep part of our society. We are a better nation because of the brave refugees who chose to make the United States their home." "It has been 42 years since the Fall of Saigon and the start of a journey to freedom for so many Vietnamese Americans," said Lowenthal. "We must acknowledge their courage, commitment and determination in their pursuit of a better life for their families. We must also honor their continued strength in forging a new life in a foreign land. Today, the economic and cultural contributions that Vietnamese Americans have made to our country abounds. The continuing contributions they make on a daily basis to our nation enriches the fabric of our American tapestry." The full text of the resolution is below: RESOLUTION Recognizing the accomplishments and the contributions of Vietnamese Americans. Whereas, in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, approximately 800,000 Vietnamese refugees fled persecution and resettled in the United States; Whereas an estimated 1.7 million Vietnamese Americans currently reside in the United States, making the United States home to the largest number of individuals of Vietnamese descent outside of Vietnam and Vietnamese Americans the fourth largest Asian American population in the United States; Whereas Vietnamese Americans have established strong communities across the country, including in the States of California, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, and Washington; Whereas first- and second-generation Vietnamese Americans have overcome tremendous socio-economic challenges, including discrimination, language and cultural barriers, and poverty, to emerge as significant contributors to American society; Whereas Vietnamese Americans contribute to American society through their work in business, education, science and technology, engineering, mathematics, literature and the arts, gastronomy, the armed forces, and public service at every level of government; Whereas Vietnamese Americans support the advancement of religious freedom, democracy, and human rights around the world; and Whereas Vietnamese Americans contribute to the rich cultural and religious diversity of the Nation: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives to recognize the accomplishments and significant contributions of Vietnamese Americans in the United States. # # #
07.12.2017	Today, all seventeen Democratic members of the House Committee on the Judiciary wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions to request information about his decision to abruptly settle United States v. Prevezon Holdings Ltd, a money laundering case that the Department of Justice (DOJ) abruptly settled that involved Russia sanctions, New York real estate holdings, and the lawyer who met with Donald Trump Jr. In their letter, the Members wrote, "Last summer, Donald Trump, Jr. met with a Kremlin-connected attorney in an attempt to obtain information "that would incriminate Hillary." Earlier this year, on May 12, 2017, the Department of Justice made an abrupt decision to settle a money laundering case being handled by that same attorney in the Southern District of New York.[1] We write with some concern that the two events may be connected—and that the Department may have settled the case at a loss for the United States in order to obscure the underlying facts." In addition to the letter, House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr., issued the following statement: "The connections here are too substantial to ignore. Why was a Russian money-laundering case involving more than $230 million dismissed without explanation? Why was a central figure in that case chosen to approach the Trump campaign about assistance from the Russian government? Was the firing of Preet Bharara in any way related to his office's prosecution of these crimes? Wittingly or unwittingly, was the Department of Justice involved? "Even if these facts are mere coincidence—and there is reason to be doubtful that they are mere coincidence—they merit immediate explanation by the Attorney General and immediate investigation by the House Judiciary Committee." Background: The Prevezon case relates to a massive tax-theft and money laundering scheme uncovered in 2007 by Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky. His 2012 death in Russian custody led to the passage of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, which enabled President Obama to sanction the Russian officials thought responsible for such human rights abuses. A 2013 complaint filed in federal court alleged that Prevezon helped to launder more than $230 million stolen from the Russian treasury, largely through high-end real estate in Manhattan. One of Prevezon's attorneys was Natalia Veselnitskaya—a lawyer known for lobbying against the Magnitsky Act, and the "Russian government attorney" who met with Donald Trump, Jr. and others to discuss "information and official documents that would incriminate Hillary" on June 9, 2016. Even Donald Trump Jr.'s alternative explanations for this meeting—he described the discussion, at one point, as "primarily about adoption"—appear to turn on Ms. Veselnitkaya's efforts to protect her client and undo U.S. sanctions on Russian officials. On May 12, 2017—just two days before the Prevezon trial was set to begin—the Department of Justice settled the case for less than $6 million and no admission of guilt. Ms. Veselnitskaya told one Russian news outlet that the penalty was so light that it seemed "almost an apology from the government." Full text of the letter to Attorney General Sessions can be found here.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement today on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to H.R. 3004, Kate's Law: "Mr Speaker- I rise in opposition to this bill. "This bill is part of H.R. 2451, a mass deportation bill marked up by the House Judiciary Committee earlier this month. I think the message it is intended to convey is that the bill is needed to keep us safe. "We have heard the sad story of the murder of Kate Steinle, which was not news to any of us in Northern California. That was a horrible murder but the fact is, this bill would not have prevented that murder. The offender had been deported multiple times. He had served 16 years in federal prison, so the idea that the 10 year enhancement would have fixed this is just misplaced. "When we talk about the bill, it's as if we don't have harsh penalties now for misbehavior in the law. If you take a look at the enhancements, it expands criminal sentences for individuals who reenter the country after removal – we already have very strong penalties against that. To say that this bill will keep us safe, because, for example, we have under current law a 20 year sentence for a conviction for an aggravated felony, this would raise it to 25. I don't think that will fix the problem. "If it were only that, we could have a discussion, which unfortunately we never did on a bipartisan basis. "The bill does other things that are very damaging. It actually makes it a felony, punishable by up to two years, to attempt to re-enter the country legally—in full compliance with our immigration laws. This is even true for individuals who have no criminal background whatsoever. "The sponsors of this bill may argue that it is necessary, but I've seen no rationale for why that would make any sense, nor would it have prevented the tragic murder of Kate Steinle. "Now let's give some examples of who that could apply to. You have individuals who have lived here, DREAMers who have lived here their whole lives brought over as children and were removed. If that person whose been removed becomes a victim of sex trafficking, the process is this: they can come and seek asylum, they can flee from their traffickers and if they present themselves to a port of entry today – they're not trying to evade detection – no they're trying to be found. They're turning themselves in. They're turning themselves in saying "I am fleeing from the sex traffickers, I want to make a claim for asylum. I need to be kept safe from the sex traffickers. This bill would make that act a felony. "The Chairman has said how wonderful it is that we have created an affirmative defense in the act. What he has neglected to mention is that right now we don't need an affirmative defense because it's not a crime to go to the port of entry and seek a benefit. Either humanitarian parole for a purpose which is sometimes granted, to travel if a member of your family is dying, to provide an organ donation to an American citizen who is in the US who his dying. That's not a crime today and you don't need an affirmative defense because it's not a crime. "I think the fact that it eliminates an important Constitutional provision is problematic. We all know we can't change the Constitution by statute. The case of U.S. v Mendoza Lopez basically says this, if you're going to prosecute somebody for entry after removal – which happens all the time, in fact that is the single most prevalent federal prosecution in the system today, that's number one – and you did not have an opportunity to actually contest the first removal because, for example you were never notified of the hearing – since that is an element of the offense, the Mendoza case says you have to at least be able to collaterally attack that because you never had a chance to do so initially, this eliminates that Constitutional case and you can't do that by statute. "So the point I'm making is that the majority of those who enter the United State without inspection are coming back to try to get next to their families, their US citizen kids, their US citizen spouses. They're not criminals, they're not creating any kind of crime. We all oppose crime but this remedy is unrelated to the horror stories we've heard. "You know, we're creating law here, not bumper stickers. I hope that we will vote against this misplaced law and work together to solve the real problems that we face." # # #
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement during House Judiciary Committee markup of H.R. 2826, the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act of 2017."H.R. 2826 would create a huge shift in this country's history of welcoming and protecting refugees from around the world. I think it really is an attack on refugees and the programs that serve them. "The bill, in my view, does not enhance security or address current problems in the refugee programs. It fails to recognize that refugees are fleeing persecution, and that we have a moral and legal duty to provide them with safe haven. The bill seems to be based on the faulty premise that refugees in general pose a danger to the country, that their numbers need to be reduced, and that they need to be kept under surveillance. "I was particularly disappointed, as the Ranking Member has stated, that this legislation comes before our Committee just one day after World Refugee Day, when all of us paused to commemorate the struggle, courage, and contributions of the many refugees that have so profoundly strengthened our nation. And I would note that in my own Congressional district that we are vastly enriched by refugees from Vietnam. The largest number of Vietnamese Americans in the United States right in the city of San Jose, who have created a tremendous business environment, wonderful children -- a very valued portion of our community. "As Ranking Member Conyers has said, we are really now in a worldwide refugee crisis at the moment. We've not seen this many refugees World War II. Yet, this bill severely hampers the ability of our country to respond to this crisis. Among other things, it strips the President of his ability to set annual admissions levels and statutorily reduces the number of refugee admissions by more than half compared to fiscal year 2017. I think that is a mistake. I guard legislative prerogative as much as any other member of Congress, but I think the President needs to have the ability to respond to international crises and events and not be hampered by an arbitrary number in law. "Since World War II, America has accepted millions of refugees. In the 80s under Reagan, as I mentioned, we resettled hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees, at times taking in more than 10,000 per month. In the 1990s, we accepted hundreds of thousands of refugees from the former Soviet Union. I would note that when the travel ban went into effect and people all over the country went to airports to protest, one of those who were there was the co-founder of Google, Sergey Brin. When reporters asked the billionaire why he was there at one in the morning at the airport he said, "Well, I'm here because I'm a refugee." I'm glad that Sergey Brin formed Google in Mountain View instead of Moscow. It made a big difference to my constituents to have all those great paying jobs here in the United States. Refugees from around the world have become enormous contributors to the U.S. economy and part of the fabric of our country, of our society, and of my district. "Now, at this moment of great need, I think we really should be trying to increase our capacity to resettle refugees, not decreasing it. The level this bill sets is low and I think it sends a dangerous message to the rest of the world, relinquishing our historic leadership. "As mentioned by Mr. Conyers, it also prioritizes religious minorities for refugee resettlement as a matter of law. That is a radical departure from established law that provides protection from persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. This provision would deprioritize Iraqis and Afghanis who supported U.S. armed services, or women fleeing sex enslavement or female genital mutilation by Boko Haram, or political dissidents from North Korea. "I think another provision allowing Governors and local legislatures to deny refugee placement in their communities, is a restriction that applies to no other group of immigrants and sends the message that refugees are undesirable and unwelcome in our communities. "I would note that although much has been said about the vetting of refugees, they are the most studied group of people who come into the United States of anyone who comes in. Some have said we can't get any information from some of these regimes, that's true. But would we really place great weight on the records provided to us by the Assad regime? I don't think so. What we do is spend 2 or 3 years examining each applicant, reconstructing their lives and the lives of the villages they grew up in to make sure their stories hold up. We also do DNA testing to make sure that the people who say they are related to each other are. The idea of keeping refugees out is just not a good one. I don't think it's consistent with our values and our history. "I think also it's worth remembering that just over 75 years ago, a ship called the St. Louis, carrying nearly 1,000 Jews fleeing Nazi Germany, sailed so close to the United States the passengers could see the lights of Miami. But rather than welcome those refugees, America turned them away. Many of those Jewish refugees perished, they were killed by the Nazis when they were forcibly returned to Europe. "That marked a change in US refugee policy and in the world's refugee policy. It's a mistake to upend the principles that have guided us since that time, as this bill does, and I hope that we will not adopt it."
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Subcommittee on Immigration Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today released the following joint statement after the U.S. Supreme Court announced it would take up Trump's Muslim and Refugee ban: "Today's Supreme Court decision recognizes a central constitutional defect in Donald Trump's Muslim and Refugee Ban—the damage it inflicts on the interests of U.S. citizens and institutions. As the opinion notes, the ban serves to separate citizens from their foreign national family members, American universities from their students, and U.S. employers from their workers. By leaving in place the lower courts' block on the Trump Administration's attempts to bar foreign nationals with U.S. ties from entering the country, the Court underscores the ban's unconstitutionality and adverse impact on America as a whole. "At the same time, the Court's opinion fails to reflect other key ways in which the ban violates our Constitution. Most important, by allowing the Trump Administration to bar the entry into the United States of certain travelers from Muslim-majority countries and refugees without U.S. ties, the Court ignored the Order's fundamentally discriminatory intent and effect. Candidate Trump campaigned on a Muslim ban; the Supreme Court should have realized this Order fulfilled that pledge. "We are disappointed in this portion of the Court's decision which will enable the Trump Administration to disrupt and upend the lives of many thousands of innocent people. Making matters worse, the ban will weaken the U.S. economy and undermine our relationships with key partners abroad in the fight against terror. "We therefore urge our Republican colleagues to join Democrats in supporting H.R. 1503, the Statute of Liberty Values Act 2.0 (SOLVe 2.0). This bill would nullify in full the Muslim and Refugee ban—which, as reflected in today's Supreme Court decision, is unconstitutional at its core—ending its harmful consequences for our national values, economy, and security." ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today during a House Judiciary Committee markup of H.R. 495, a Republican bill to remove basic child welfare protections for unaccompanied children which will result in an increase in child trafficking, child persecution and child abuse. Statement of Rep. Zoe Lofgren Markup of: H.R. 495, the "Protection of Children Act of 2017" Wednesday, June 14, 2017 "As Mr. Conyers has mentioned, the "Protection of Children Act" actually doesn't protect children. Instead, will result in increased child sex trafficking, the return of children to violence, the denial of legal counsel, and the prolonged detention of children. "I think it is very sad that today we are amending the Wilberforce Act, which was really a triumph of bipartisanship, coming together across ideological divides to say we're going to take a stand against slavery and sex trafficking. This bill will weaken that magnificent effort. "To argue that this bill "protects" children because it discourages them from making the journey to the U.S. misses the point. These kids, many of them, are fleeing from violent and desperate situations including forced sexual slavery, gang recruitment, and extortion. "Some have labeled these children, many of them under 12 years of age, as gang members and violent criminals. But this ignores that these children are escaping the brutality, not embracing it. As Catholic Bishop Mark Seitz testified before this Committee in 2014, proposals like this "is akin to sending these children back into a burning building they just fled." "We all know the stories of children escaping unspeakable violence to seek refuge and others who were brutally murdered before having a chance to do so. Many of these children reach us after escaping from human trafficking for sex or labor. "Now, the Majority has argued that, in some cases, this violence is no different than the violence in some of our own American cities. No one disputes that violence in our cities is a problem, but there are crucial differences. Most importantly is that the violence in Central America is not localized, but instead pervades the entire region. Gangs control every aspect of children's lives, including the police, the government, public transportation, street corners, and even schools. "The truth is that many of these children simply cannot find safety within their borders. They have no choice but to seek safety outside, and in fact, they're fleeing not only to the United States, but to Mexico, Nicaragua, Belize, and to other countries as well. "Under the guise of "protection," this bill particularly harms disabled and younger children. The bill removes the provision in the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act that requires a DHS official to determine whether a child is able to make an independent decision to waive her application for admission and thus any right to seek protection under our laws. "This provision was intended to protect – and it was bipartisan –younger children and those with reduced mental capacities. In practice, CBP officers transfer children under the age of 14 to HHS custody because it is understood that such children lack the capacity to make informed decisions about their own cases, particularly in the presence of enforcement officers. Transfer to HHS custody allows these younger children and mentally disabled children to undergo a longer screening process with HHS social workers, as well as the opportunity to have a hearing before an immigration judge. "If this bill were actually intended to "protect" children, this provision would not be stricken. Instead, the proposals short-term solution that would result in the rapid deportation of vulnerable younger and disabled children. It is really Orwellian, I think, to argue that this could possibly "protect" children. "The Majority has complained that a "so-called" loophole in the TVPRA that allows children from non-contiguous countries (many from Central America) to be treated better than children from contiguous countries (mostly from Mexico, not Canada). The Majority argues that children from all countries should be subjected to the same expedited screening mechanism as Mexican children. "But this ignores what we know about expedited screening practices. At our government's request, the United Nations reviewed our screening practices and concluded that we are returning Mexican children to face trafficking and persecution. The GAO conducted a similar review a year later and also found the CBP failed to properly screen Mexican children. Given how broken this practice is of expedited removal, it should be ended, not expanded to other children. "H.R. 495 also extends DHS's ability to detain unaccompanied children for up to 30 days. Remarkably, it even authorizes the indefinite detention of those who pass the screening. Now, we all saw the heartbreaking photos of children in Border Patrol stations several years ago. Some of us, including me, traveled to the border to personally assess the situation. The Border Patrol agents at the time did their best in a difficult situation, but we should never again force these officers to have to care for children for such lengthy periods of time. They would be the very first to tell us that a Border Patrol station is no place for a child—and certainly not for 30 days or more. This change in the law makes no sense. "Now I am always willing to consider common-sense solutions to our broken immigration system—but this bill is not that. This proposal that will harm the most vulnerable—unaccompanied children fleeing violence, trafficking, and abuse. It's not good policy and it's not in line with our American values of freedom and protection.
06.01.2017	SAN JOSE, CA – Two new federal grants were awarded to the Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport for infrastructure improvements and the purchase of new safety equipment, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today. The grants – totaling nearly $1.2 million – were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. $805,900 will support plans to rehabilitate an emergency generator that provides back-up power for airfield lighting along one of the airport's main runways. An additional $373,289 will be used to purchase a new aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle to improve overall safety at the airport. "It's important to ensure the safety of passengers who fly SJC, as well as airport employees, by maintaining the airport's critical infrastructure and equipment," said Lofgren. "I'm pleased to see another sizeable federal investment in Mineta to establish the airport as a premier gateway for businesses and travelers to the Valley.""As America's fastest-growing airport, we appreciate the hard work that Representative Lofgren and her staff are doing on behalf of SJC and the traveling public," said San Jose Interim Director of Aviation John Aitken. "Our airport has added more than a million new passengers in just the past year, and it's imperative that we make the appropriate safety investments to keep up with the increased usage of our airport." Lofgren has been instrumental in securing federal grants for Mineta San Jose International Airport. Last year, Lofgren helped Mineta receive more than $15 million for infrastructure improvements and perimeter security upgrades. # # #
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON (THURSDAY, June 1, 2017) – Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Representative John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), and Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) on Thursday pressed the president of Kushner Companies for answers on the company's use of EB-5 visas and its continued ties to Jared Kushner, President Trump's top advisor and son-in-law. At a time when Mr. Kushner is facing scrutiny over his contacts with Russian officials and his former company reportedly is facing financial trouble at its company headquarters and marquee building, there are mounting questions about Kushner Companies' reliance on and recruitment of foreign investment through the EB-5 Immigrant Investor program. Leahy has worked for years to reform the flawed EB-5 program, and he was joined by House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) and House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), who have worked for years to reform the EB-5 program in the House of Representatives. The EB-5 program has recently been under scrutiny due to documented cases of fraud and concerns that it is not serving the disadvantaged communities that it was originally intended to benefit. In the letter, Leahy, Conyers, and Lofgren ask about Kushner Companies' lobbying efforts and about whether Kushner Companies' practices, and those of its U.S. and Chinese partners, comply with EB-5 program rules and U.S. securities laws. They also demand answers about Kushner Companies' use of its relationship to the White House to recruit foreign investors. A copy of the letter is below and at this LINK: https://www.leahy.senate.gov/download/leahy-conyers-lofgren-letter-to-kushner-cos # # # # # June 1, 2017 Laurent Morali President, Kushner Companies 666 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10103 Dear Mr. Morali: The Judiciary Committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives have oversight and authorizing jurisdiction over the EB-5 Regional Center program. Since 2015, bipartisan members of these committees have worked together to develop broad reforms to the program. Members have also engaged with the Department of Homeland Security, under both the Obama and Trump administrations, through a regulatory effort to administratively improve the program. Despite wide recognition that the EB-5 program is in need of reform, however, these efforts have been opposed by select entities. We are concerned about recent reports detailing Kushner Companies' use of the EB-5 Regional Center program, especially in light of Jared Kushner's role in the Trump administration and the potential for conflicts of interest. These reports indicate that Kushner Companies and its latest EB-5 project, "One Journal Square," may be seeking to benefit from the Kushner family's connections to the White House. These reports also suggest that luxury developers have aggressively lobbied Congress to prevent reforms to the EB-5 program. Such lobbying appears intended to benefit luxury development projects like those built by Kushner Companies, and thus presents the appearance of a conflict of interest given Mr. Kushner's new position in the administration. As Congress considers what reforms are necessary to the EB-5 program, we request that you provide additional details regarding your participation in this federal immigration program. Jared Kushner's Financial Ties to EB-5 1. Jared Kushner has retained numerous holdings in Kushner Companies. The Washington Post recently reported that Mr. Kushner has retained 220 assets, including 124 real estate properties, worth a minimum of $167 million.[1] The White House confirmed that Mr. Kushner still owns a stake in another Kushner Companies' project financed in part by EB-5, "Trump Bay Street."[2] a. Please provide complete details of any holdings of Kushner Companies in which Mr. Kushner, directly or indirectly, is a partial or full owner. b. Please describe which of those holdings have been financed or expect to be financed, in whole or in part, using any proceeds derived from capital investments by immigrants seeking a visa under the EB-5 program ("EB-5 Investors"). 2. Even though Jared Kushner has stepped away from a leadership position within Kushner Companies for the time being, we understand that he may step back into a leadership or more prominent ownership role once he leaves his White House position. This raises the question of what steps Mr. Kushner would have to take to regain any ownership interests from which he has divested. a. If he chooses to do so, could Mr. Kushner merely resume identical ownership interests? Would his family be permitted to gift him equity interests in the company or projects, or would he have to purchase or otherwise acquire any interest at fair market value (or at a discount or premium)? Marketing Familial Relationships with the White House 3. Earlier this month, at a promotional event in Beijing for One Journal Square, Jared Kushner's sister, Nicole Kushner Meyer, included in her pitch to potential investors that her brother served as Kushner Companies' chief executive until he left to serve in the Trump administration.[3] She also noted that "this project means a lot to me and my entire family."[4] Ms. Meyer was scheduled to attend additional conferences to pitch the family business but those were cancelled after the press reported on the Beijing event.[5] Kushner Companies has since stated that it "apologizes if that mention of [Meyer's] brother was in any way interpreted as an attempt to lure investors."[6] a. According to a report in Reuters, Kushner Companies is using the Chinese migration agency Qiaowai to market the One Journal Square project to potential Chinese investors.[7] Qiaowai claims to have raised money for the Trump Bay Street project as well.[8] Qiaowai's promotional materials noted Ms. Meyer's familial relationship to President Trump and called her the event's "heavyweight honored guest."[9] According to The New York Times, one potential investor stated that Qiaowai "said [that President Trump] would make sure [the visas] came through" and that Kushner Companies' ties to President Trump ensured that "there was no chance [the project] could fail."[10] Have you requested that Qiaowai cease exploiting Ms. Meyer's and Kushner Companies' connections to the White House in its efforts to recruit investors on your behalf? b. What steps, if any, have you taken to ensure that no one affiliated with Kushner Companies or Qiaowai references or otherwise exploits Kushner Companies' connections to the White House? 4. Qiaowai has reportedly described the marketing event with Ms. Meyer as a success, stating that it resulted in a "buying rush."[11] a. How many investors have either committed or signaled they intend to commit to investing in One Journal Square following the marketing event with Ms. Meyer at which Mr. Kushner and President Trump were mentioned? Lobbying in Opposition to EB-5 Reform 5. Since 2015, members of the Judiciary Committees of the Senate and House have worked together to develop broad bipartisan reforms to the EB-5 Regional Center program. Members also requested in March 2016 that then-Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson do what he could administratively to improve the program.[12] The Obama administration then issued new proposed rules in January 2017.[13] These efforts have been actively opposed by select large developers and business interests. In a report titled, "Changes to visa program could set back Kushner family's real estate company," The Washington Post reports that "[b]ig-name developers have hired armies of lobbyists to fight changes in the EB-5 rules."[14] In order to secure EB-5 funding for its projects, Kushner Companies partners with a regional center known as U.S. Immigration Fund.[15] A New York Times report described the U.S. Immigration Fund as "at the forefront of efforts to stop an overhaul of the EB-5 program in 2015 and 2016."[16] According to public disclosure records, between 2013 and the first quarter of 2017, U.S. Immigration Fund spent $980,000 on lobbying related to the EB-5 program.[17] The Chairman and CEO of U.S. Immigration Fund, Nicholas Mastroianni II, was featured in a Fortune Magazine report titled "The tangled past of the hottest money-raiser in America's visa-for-sale program."[18] According to the Washington Post, U.S. Immigration Fund's president, Nicholas Mastroianni III, contributed $100,000 to the Trump inauguration.[19] The younger Mastroianni was then "invited to an exclusive dinner with Trump's future Cabinet members on Jan. 18, days after the [EB-5 rule] changes were proposed." The Palm Beach Daily News reported that Mr. Mastroianni III sat at the same table as Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kelly.[20] a. Aside from partnering with U.S. Immigration Fund to secure EB-5 funds for its projects, has Kushner Companies coordinated, pursued, or discussed any lobbying or advocacy efforts with U.S. Immigration Fund? b. Prior to Jared Kushner resigning as CEO of Kushner Companies in January 2017, did anyone associated with U.S. Immigration Fund have any communication with Mr. Kushner regarding EB-5 regulations? c. To your knowledge, has anyone associated with U.S. Immigration Fund made any representations to any EB-5 stakeholders regarding policy positions or actions that Mr. Kushner or the White House intends to take with respect to regulations or reforms to the EB-5 program? 6. Jared Kushner, as CEO of Kushner Companies, was a member of the Real Estate Roundtable in both 2015[21] and 2016.[22] The Real Estate Roundtable has been active lobbying Congress on issues related to EB-5, and it includes the program among only six "Policy Issues" listed on its website.[23] The Real Estate Roundtable also describes itself as a "Founding Member" of another EB-5 lobbying group, the "EB-5 Investment Coalition."[24] On January 4, 2017, representatives from the Real Estate Roundtable, the EB-5 Investment Coalition, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce met in person with government officials regarding the DHS proposed rule.[25] These organizations then wrote to the President on the day of his inauguration, and to Secretary Kelly on February 24, 2017, requesting that the regulations be withdrawn.[26] a. Now that Mr. Kushner has stepped down as CEO, is anyone affiliated with Kushner Companies still a member of the Real Estate Roundtable? b. What other lobbying or advocacy activities has Kushner Companies engaged in, directly or indirectly, related to reform or reauthorization of the EB-5 program? c. Has anyone affiliated with Kushner Companies discussed the DHS proposed regulations, or EB-5 issues generally, with Jared Kushner since President Trump took office? d. Has anyone affiliated with the Real Estate Roundtable, the EB-5 Investment Coalition, or the U.S. Chamber of Commerce discussed the proposed regulations, or EB-5 issues generally, with Jared Kushner since President Trump took office? 7. The New York Times has reported that Qiaowai and U.S. Immigration Fund brought Rudolph W. Giuliani to Beijing last year to speak to potential investors.[27] Mr. Giuliani is employed by Greenberg Traurig,[28] the same law firm that is "fighting changes to the rules of the EB-5 program" on behalf of the EB-5 Investment Coalition.[29] a. Has Mr. Giuliani recruited investors on behalf of One Journal Square or Trump Bay Street? b. Has Mr. Giuliani had any communication with Jared Kushner, while he was serving as CEO of Kushner Companies or afterwards, regarding the pending EB-5 regulations? 8. Reuters reported that Ding Ying, the founder and president of Qiaowai, the Chinese migration agency used by Kushner Companies and U.S. Immigration Fund, attended the inauguration of President Trump and met with the President, his family, and members of his cabinet. Reuters did not find evidence that Ms. Ying or Qiaowai donated any money to the Trump inaugural committee. The company's website stated that "[t]he fact that Ms. Ding has once again been invited to attend a presidential inauguration shows that the U.S. Congress values and approves of the Qiaowai group."[30] a. To your knowledge, did Ms. Ying, or anyone affiliated with Qiaowai, provide any or all of the $100,000 that Nicholas Mastroianni III donated to the Trump inaugural committee, either in the form of a direct payment, fee discount, or any other form of transfer? If so, how much? Use of EB-5 Development Incentives for Distressed Areas 9. The current default investment amount of $1 million is lowered to $500,000 in a targeted employment area (TEA), which is a rural area or an area with an unemployment rate of at least 150 percent of the national rate.[31] However, this provision has been interpreted to allow "developers who propose projects in wealthy urban areas, such as Manhattan and even Beverly Hills, to qualify for [the] incentives that are supposed to be reserved for [the] poorer areas."[32] In a statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee last year, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights described the misuse of TEAs as a civil rights issue, and observed that "the EB-5 Program has become a ‘bait and switch' for the thousands of blighted communities it was meant to serve."[33] This economic gerrymandering—with census tracts stitched together to connect a project's actual location with distressed areas to meet the requisite unemployment rate to qualify as a TEA—is now the norm. The Government Accountability Office reviewed a sample of EB-5 petitions filed in 2015[34] and found that 97 percent of petitioners were investing in projects that claimed to be in a high unemployment area. Of those, 90 percent needed to stitch together multiple census tracts (or census block groups) to reach the statutorily required unemployment rate. a. There is concern about the manner in which Kushner Companies' EB-5 projects appear to qualify as high unemployment areas. The Washington Post reported yesterday that the TEA map for Trump Bay Street "stretched nearly four miles and included some of the city's poorest and most crime-ridden neighborhoods [while it] excluded some wealthy neighborhoods only blocks away."[35] The report included a similar map for One Journal Plaza. Are the TEA maps for the two Kushner Companies' projects as reported in the Washington Post accurate? b. It has been reported that Kushner Companies may also seek EB-5 investment for 666 Fifth Avenue,[36] a building that, according to a Bloomberg report, has you "casting about for a savior" due to escalating fees and rising debt costs.[37] Yet this building is located in Midtown Manhattan, one of the most affluent neighborhoods in the country. Please provide any anticipated TEA map, with reference to the census tracts used to meet the requisite unemployment rate. Potential Violations of EB-5 Program Rules and Securities Laws 10. In a report titled "Behind Kushner Companies, a Chinese agency skirts visa-for-investment rules,"[38] Reuters found six instances in which Qiaowai guaranteed potential investors either a green card or their investment. On May 5, 2017, Qiaowai wrote that One Journal Square "in a real sense guarantees a permanent green card and the safety of the investment principal." Other materials indicated that the project "fully safeguards investors' green cards and funds." According to The New York Times, one potential investor said that Qiaowai "said [that President Trump] would make sure it came through. . . . They said there was no chance it could fail." At the promotional event with Mr. Kushner's sister in attendance, the New York Times reported that "Qiaowai representatives said that citizenship and getting money back were ‘highly guaranteed.'"[39] However, a green card cannot be guaranteed under program rules as regulations require that an immigrant investor's capital be placed "at risk" for the duration of the investment.[40] Furthermore, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 10b-5 provides that it "is unlawful for any person . . . to make any untrue statement of a material fact" in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.[41] a. Were you aware that Qiaowai has been making such representations prior to the reporting by Reuters and The New York Times? b. Have you asked Qiaowai to cease marketing the One Journal Square project in violation of program rules and U.S. securities laws? c. What steps have you taken to ensure One Journal Square is marketed in compliance with program rules and U.S. securities laws? Reuters reports that EB-5 agents can make as much as $100,000 per investor they recruit, which represents a finder's fee of 20 percent of the underlying investment. Both finding investors and receiving transaction-related compensation are indicators that a person may need to register as a broker with the SEC,[42] and the SEC has recently pursued enforcement actions against individuals facilitating EB-5 investments for failing to register.[43] a. Do Qiaowai migration agents receive transaction-related compensation for each investor they recruit for One Journal Square? If so, how much? What other fees or compensation do they receive? b. Are Qiaowai agents—or any other agents recruiting EB-5 investors for Kushner Companies' projects—registered as brokers or dealers with the SEC? If not, what exemption do they rely on? If none, how does this arrangement comply with U.S. securities laws? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please respond by June 16, 2017. Sincerely, PATRICK LEAHY JOHN CONYERS, Jr. Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member House Judiciary Committee ZOE LOFGREN Ranking Member House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee # # # [1] Darla Cameron, Amy Brittain and Jonathan O'Connell, "What Jared Kushner still owns," The Washington Post (May 21, 2017), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/politics/kushner-conflicts/?utm_term=.fe63045a2137. [2] Anna Werner and Laura Strickler, "Kushners use controversial EB-5 visa program to finance their developments," CBS News (May 8, 2017), available at http://www.cbsnews.com/news/kushners-use-controversial-eb-5-visa-program-to-finance-their-developments/. [3] Javier Hernandez, Cao Li, and Jesse Drucker, "Jared Kushner's Sister Highlights Family Ties in Pitch to Chinese Investors," The New York Times (May 6, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/06/world/asia/jared-kushner-sister-nicole-meyer-china-investors.html?_r=0. [4] Id. [5] "Kushner family company to skip Chinese Investor conference," The Associated Press (May 12, 2017), available at http://www.cbsnews.com/news/jared-kushner-sister-nicole-kushner-meyer-eb-5-visa-china-ap/. [6] Merrit Kennedy, "Kushner Companies' Pitch to Chinese Investors Raises Conflict of Interest Questions," NPR (May 7, 2017), available at http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/05/07/527282482/kushner-companies-pitch-to-chinese-investors-raises-conflict-of-interest-questio. [7] Alexandra Harney, "Behind Kushner Companies, a Chinese agency skirts visa-for-investment rules," Reuters (May 12, 2017), available at http://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-kushner-qiaowai-insight-idUSKBN1882EI. [8] Id. [9] Id. [10] Javier C. Hernandez and Jesse Drucker, "How to Woo Chinese Investors: With Visa Offers and the Trump Name," The New York Times (May 19, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/business/kushner-trump-china-green-cards.html. [11] "Kushner Companies has yet to secure EB-5 funds for Jersey City project after Chinese road show," The Real Deal (May 15, 2017), available at https://therealdeal.com/2017/05/15/kushner-companies-has-yet-to-secure-eb-5-funds-for-jersey-city-project-after-chinese-road-show/. [12] Letter from Bob Goodlatte, Charles Grassley, John Conyers, Jr., and Patrick Leahy to Jeh Johnson, Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, at 1 (Mar. 2, 2016). [13] 82 Fed. Reg. 4738 et seq. (Jan. 13, 2017). [14] Shawn Boburg, "Changes to visa program could set back Kushner family's real estate company," The Washington Post (May 11, 2017), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/kushner-family-drops-out-of-china-presentation/2017/05/11/a8368ea0-34cf-11e7-b4ee-434b6d506b37_story.html?utm_term=.2145a4b8c517. [15] See, e.g., the list of U.S. Immigration Fund projects on its website, which includes "88 Kushner-KABR," available at http://visaeb-5.com/usi-fund-projects/new-york-regional-center/. [16] Javier C. Hernandez and Jesse Drucker, "How to Woo Chinese Investors: With Visa Offers and the Trump Name," The New York Times (May 19, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/business/kushner-trump-china-green-cards.html. [17] The United States Senate, "Query the Lobbying Disclosure Act Database," available at https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=processSelectFields (click "Client Name," submit, and then query "immigration fund LLC"). [18] Peter Elkind and Marty Jones, "The tangled past of the hottest money-raiser in America's visa-for-sale program," Fortune Magazine (Oct. 14, 2014), available at http://fortune.com/2014/10/14/eb-5tangled-past/. [19] Shawn Boburg, "Changes to Visa Program could set back Kushner family's real estate company," The Washington Post (May 11, 2017), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/kushner-family-drops-out-of-china-presentation/2017/05/11/a8368ea0-34cf-11e7-b4ee-434b6d506b37_story.html?utm_term=.2145a4b8c517. [20] George Bennett and Bill DiPaolo, "Many County residents gave big to Trump inaugural committee," Palm Beach Daily News (April 24, 2017), available at http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news/local/many-county-residents-gave-big-trump-inaugural-committee/ZhzSjhcW5WXVYfotVzOoYN/. [21] "2015 Annual Report," The Real Estate Roundtable, available at http://www.rer.org/2015-Annual-Report/ (accessed May 30, 2017). [22] "2016 Annual Report," The Real Estate Roundtable, available at http://www.rer.org/2016-Annual-Report/ (accessed May 30, 2017). [23] See The Real Estate Roundtable, "The Urgent Need to Reform and Reauthorize the EB-5 Investment Program," Policy Issues, available at http://www.rer.org/EB5/. [24] Id. ("The Real Estate Roundtable supports legislative efforts to extend EB-5 regional centers and is a ‘Founding Member' of a broad-based EB-5 coalition"). [25] Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, "View EO 12866 Meeting 1615-AC07 (Title: EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization)" available at https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/viewEO12866Meeting?viewRule=true&rin=1615-AC07&meetingId=2289&acronym=1615-DHS/USCIS. [26] See "Exhibit 1," Comments to Proposed EB-5 Regulations, EB-5 Investment Coalition, available at https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=USCIS-2016-0006-0257. [27] Javier C. Hernandez and Jesse Drucker, "How to Woo Chinese Investors: With Visa Offers and the Trump Name," The New York Times (May 19, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/business/kushner-trump-china-green-cards.html. [28] Greenberg Traurig, "Biography: Rudolph W. Giuliani," available at http://www.gtlaw.com/People/Rudolph-W-Giuliani. [29] Javier C. Hernandez and Jesse Drucker, "How to Woo Chinese Investors: With Visa Offers and the Trump Name," The New York Times (May 19, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/business/kushner-trump-china-green-cards.html. [30] Alexandra Harney, "Behind Kushner Companies, a Chinese agency skirts visa-for-investment rules," Reuters (May 12, 2017), available at http://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-kushner-qiaowai-insight-idUSKBN1882EI. [31] 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(5). [32] Shawn Boburg, "Changes to Visa Program could set back Kushner family's real estate company," The Washington Post (May 11, 2017), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/kushner-family-drops-out-of-china-presentation/2017/05/11/a8368ea0-34cf-11e7-b4ee-434b6d506b37_story.html?utm_term=.2145a4b8c517. [33] Statement of Nancy Zirkin, Executive Vice President, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Senate Judiciary Committee, Hearing on "The Distortion of the EB-5 Targeted Employment Areas: Time to End the Abuse" (Apr. 13, 2016). [34] "Immigrant Investor Program: Proposed Project Investments in Targeted Employment Areas, U.S. Government Accountability Office (Mar. 8, 2017), available at https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-17-487T. [35] Shawn Boburg, "How Jared Kushner built a luxury skyscraper using loans meant for job-starved areas," The Washington Post (May 31, 2017), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/jared-kushner-and-his-partners-used-a-program-meant-for-job-starved-areas-to-build-a-luxury-skyscraper/2017/05/31/9c81b52c-4225-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html?utm_term=.6e4ffc68b2c9. [36] David Kocieniewski and Caleb Melby, "Kushners May Get $400 Million From Chinese on Tower," Bloomberg (Mar. 13, 2017), available at https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-13/kushners-set-to-get-400-million-from-chinese-on-marquee-tower. [37] Caleb Melby and David Kocieniewski, "Inside the Troubled Kushner Tower: Empty Offices and Mounting Debt," Bloomberg (Mar. 22, 2017), available at https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-22/kushners-troubled-tower-debt-empty-offices-and-rising-fees. [38] Alexandra Harney, "Behind Kushner Companies, a Chinese agency skirts visa-for-investment rules," Reuters (May 12, 2017), available at http://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-kushner-qiaowai-insight-idUSKBN1882EI. [39] Javier C. Hernandez and Jesse Drucker, "How to Woo Chinese Investors: With Visa Offers and the Trump Name," The New York Times (May 19, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/business/kushner-trump-china-green-cards.html. [40] 8 C.F.R. § 204.6(j)(2). [41] 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5. [42] "Guide to Broker-Dealer Registration," U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (Oct. 6, 2009), available at https://www.sec.gov/reportspubs/investor-publications/divisionsmarketregbdguidehtm.html#II. [43] Securities and Exchange Commission, "SEC: Lawyers Offered EB-5 Investments as Unregistered Brokers," SEC Press Release (Dec. 7, 2017), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-274.html.
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) applauded the Federal Transit Administration's announcement - in a reversal of their earlier decision to withhold funding - to execute the Full Funding Grant Agreement for the Caltrain Modernization Program Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project. "Today's announcement is very good news with huge benefits for millions of residents and businesses from San Jose to San Francisco. The Caltrain electrification project will create an estimated 9,600 jobs, provide much needed relief from traffic congestion, improve air quality, and boost daily ridership from 65,000 to 110,000. It's a shame that California's 14 Republican House members got this delayed, which increases costs to taxpayers."
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement today during a full committee markup of H.R. 2431, the Trump Mass Deportation Act – a harsh, anti-immigrant, enforcement-only proposal that would criminalize all undocumented immigrants, undermine public safety, harm the American people and waste millions of dollars: "Some will say this bill is needed to keep us safe. But what the bill really does is pander to the noxious notion that immigrants are criminals and should be dealt with harshly. "As we know, the truth is that immigrants commit crime at a far lower rate than the native born. They add greatly to the country's wealth, both by working in agriculture, technology, medical care, housing, and other critical sectors of the nation's economy, and by operating small businesses in every corner of this country. "But in Trump's America, we are told not to trust the news, that climate change is a hoax, that less health care coverage is better health coverage, and that immigrants are dangerous. "The real danger, of course, is making policy based on alternative facts. "Based on alternative facts, this bill would turn all undocumented immigrants—including Dreamers, parents, and children—into criminals overnight. And it would empower local law enforcement with little training in the area to engage in overreaching witch-hunts replete with racial profiling and violations of our civil rights. "It is no surprise that this bill was on Steve Bannon's white board as a priority for the Trump Administration. This bill gives Trump and Bannon the legislative authority to establish their massive "deportation force" and would turn our communities into police states overnight. This bill should really be called the "Trump Mass Deportation Act." Because that is what it is. "This bill will make us neither safer nor more prosperous. Since Trump's inauguration and the issuance of his Executive Orders, we have seen a sharp decline in international visitors, fewer foreign students seeking to study here, and ripple effects in our technology sector. Whether intended or not, Trump has sent the message that the United States is closed for business, and our economy is paying the price. "After the Executive Orders, we have also seen decreasing levels of crime reporting within Latino communities. This is not a good thing. Law enforcement officers and prosecutors all over the country know that if residents are too afraid to come forward to report crime or testify against criminal activity, their communities – our communities – will be less safe. If this bill is enacted into law, criminal activity in these communities will only escalate, as criminals will be allowed to commit crime with impunity. "The bill simply casts aside these inconvenient truths in the rush to target and expel immigrants. "The Constitution fares no better. Despite my colleagues professed adoration for the Constitution and limited government, this bill raises severe constitutional concerns. "There are the provisions that turn immigration law on its head by allowing states and localities to enact their own immigration laws and penalties, and to independently enforce them. These include the authority for local officials to investigate, arrest, and even detain individuals they suspect have violated civil immigration laws—all without any coordination with Federal authorities. "Perhaps more pointedly, the bill puts states and localities in de facto control of federal enforcement by giving them the power to order federal officers, without exception, to arrest and detain individuals suspected by the local officers of violating immigration laws. Giving local officers the authority to commandeer federal enforcement resources intrudes on core executive powers and raises significant separation-of-powers and federalism concerns. "There are also provisions authorizing the indefinite, and possibly permanent, detention of persons who cannot be removed despite their cooperation with removal efforts. This provision would overturn the Supreme Court's decision in Zadvydas v. Davis, where the Court strongly suggested that such detention would violate bedrock constitutional protections. "Again, I ask why we feel compelled to violate the Constitution despite a professed loyalty to our Constitution. "I am left wondering whether anti-immigrant rhetoric has so invaded some of us that we are no longer able to embrace the fundamental ideals embodied in our Constitution. "It was not too long ago when my Republican colleagues and I were able to have reasonable conversations about immigration policy. While we disagreed on many things, we shared certain core beliefs that allowed us to work on common-sense, bipartisan solutions. "This bill is not a solution. It is the wrong direction for our country, and I hope that we can at least make some of it better through a series of amendment that we will offer." # # #
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today called for the arrest and prosecution of individuals who brutally beat protestors outside the Turkish ambassador's residence on Tuesday night and the revocation of diplomatic visas granted to members of Erdo?an's security detail who participated in the attack: "I was shocked to watch a video this morning in which supporters of Turkish President Erdo?an, including his own bodyguards, savagely beat peaceful protestors at the Turkish Embassy yesterday. The Metropolitan Police Department has called it a "brutal attack." The State Department condemned the attack, but this is not enough. "Yesterday's attackers should be arrested immediately and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. And if Erdo?an bodyguards who participated in this attack have entered the country on diplomatic visas, those visas should be revoked right away. "Their assault was not just on individual protestors, but an open assault on our collective First Amendment rights. "President Erdo?an is an authoritarian and an oppressor. Over the past several years, he has mounted a continuous assault on the rule of law, free speech, free press, and democratic institutions. It was unwise for President Trump to meet with him. Now the United States needs to send a strong message that we will not stand by as Erdo?an's bring the same thuggish tactics to our nation's capital." # # #
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement this afternoon after House Republicans' Trumpcare bill to take health coverage away from 24 million Americans passed the House: "Today Republicans jammed through a bill that's very wrong. It's a $600 billion tax cut for the wealthiest Americans which throws millions of people off their health care insurance. It raises costs and lowers care which is why patient groups including cancer survivors oppose it." # # #
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D- Calif.) introduced the ZZZ's to A's Act today to examine the relationship between school start times and adolescent health, well-being and performance. Introduced during Sleep Awareness week, an annual public education and awareness campaign to promote the importance of sleep – the bill comes on the heels of mounting evidence that delayed school days help reduce tardiness, improve attendance, performance, and boost driving safety. "Students across the United States are not getting enough sleep at night – this affects not just their academic performance, but their health, safety, and well-being," said Lofgren. "We know that as kids become teens their biology keeps them from getting to sleep as early, which can make it harder for them to wake up early in the morning. This legislation will help local school districts recognize and use new information about the importance of sufficient sleep and the impact that school start times can have on adolescent health and performance." Research has shown that the natural biological sleep pattern of many adolescents is to go to sleep and wake up at later times. However, many of these students must wake up well before the sun rises to get ready for school, as many high schools in the United States start before 7:30 am. Lofgren has long supported and advocated for a later school start time, first introducing the ZZZ's to A's Act in 1998, with subsequent versions throughout the past decade and a half. The ZZZ's to A's Act of 2017, endorsed by the National Sleep Foundation, the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, and Start School Later, directs the Secretary of Education to study the effects of later start times on secondary school students and submit findings and recommendations to Congress. An American Academy of Pediatrics position statement published in 2014 recognized "insufficient sleep in adolescents as a public health issue," and advised that "middle and high schools should aim for a starting time of no earlier than 8:30 am." The American Medical Association concurred in 2016, noting that while "a delayed school start time can be an emotional and potentially stressful issue for school districts, families, and members of the community, the health benefits for adolescents far outweigh any potential negative consequences." The American Academy of Sleep Medicine, issuing a position statement in the April 2017 issue of the Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine, asserts that it, too, supports the no-earlier-than 8:30 am standard, explaining that"early school start times make it difficult for adolescents to get sufficient sleep on school nights, and chronic sleep loss among teens is associated with host of problems, including poor school performance, increased depressive symptoms, and motor vehicle accidents." Original cosponsors of the ZZZ's to A's Act include U.S. Reps. Yvette Clark (D-N.Y.), Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.), Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.), Gwen S. Moore (D-Wis.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Dina Titus (D-Nev.), Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.), and Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.). Full bill text can be found here.
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the 39-member California Democratic Congressional Delegation, issued the following statement today regarding a California State Audit report on the University of California Office of the President: "The recent California State Audit on the UC Office of the President is very troubling. "I was particularly discouraged to learn that at the same time the University of California outsourced nearly 100 skilled IT workers at UC San Francisco through misuse of the H-1B visa program – ostensibly in order to save the University $30 million – the report indicates that the Office of the President was surreptitiously stockpiling more than $175 million in undisclosed and unnecessary reserves. "In a letter to the University President last November, I urged reversal of the decision to lay off American workers in favor of H-1B employees. That letter went unanswered. "After reviewing the contents of the Audit report, it appears the outsourcing of jobs supposedly for budget constraints occurred while lavish spending was going on in the University administration. "I applaud the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and Assembly Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance for convening a joint hearing into the allegations contained in this audit and look forward to the Legislature's findings." # # #
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today in opposition to H.R. 1695, the Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act of 2017, a bill expected to be considered in the House of Representatives this week: "Despite the rushed manner in which this bill has been brought to the floor, there is absolutely no coherent rationale advanced as to how it will improve the administration of the Copyright office. Instead, this bill will only harm the public good, create a dysfunctional relationship between the Library of Congress and the Register of Copyright, and serve to delay Copyright modernization. "First, Removing Dr. Hayden's ability to appoint the Register of Copyrights means she will be unable to hold employees accountable and creates uncertainty and ambiguity in the chain of command between the Librarian and Register of Copyrights. "The previous Register of Copyrights was removed after a Library of Congress Inspector General report found the Copyright Office not only wasted six years and nearly $12 million but hid this information from Congress, falsified information in reports to the Library, and submitted fake budget numbers for annual appropriations requests. "Dr. Hayden took appropriate steps to remove the Register responsible for this mismanagement. This bill would prevent Dr. Hayden from removing or ensuring accountability in any future Register by making the Register answerable only to the President – a fundamental change in the relationship between Librarian and Register. "Second, and most fundamental to the operation of the Copyright Office, this legislation will harm and delay much-needed modernization efforts by making the Register a Presidentially appointed position. Currently, there is a backlog of 495 Appointee positions that have not even been nominated. This not only will delay effective administration of the Copyright Office, but also puts the efficiency gains made by the Library at risk. Under current modernization plans, the Library believes it can speed up the modernization plan by almost two years and save significant amounts of money. Those plans depend on an active Register of Copyright who is compliant and accountable to the Librarian. The long delay created by this bill in needing Senate confirmation of a Register will only harm these efforts. "Finally, the bill is a clear affront to the first female Librarian of Congress. Dr. Carla Hayden is not only one of the most highly qualified Librarians ever to serve, but has also worked aggressively and in good faith to pull the Library and Copyright office into the 21st century. I find it deeply disturbing that for the first time in history, a female and a person of color is the Librarian of Congress, and for the first time in history, Congress would take away her power in order to give it to Donald Trump. While this does not point to motive, it is a distressing fact nevertheless. "This bill is a vote of ‘no confidence' in a Librarian who is aggressively pulling the Library and Copyright Office into the 21st century and, by all evidence, justifiably reassigned an ineffective and negligent Register. It will only serve to delay Copyright Office modernization, harm the public, harm content creators, increase tension between the Library and Copyright Office, and harm Copyright Office employees." Lofgren's dissenting views on the Judiciary Committee Report of H.R. 1695 can be found here. # # #
04.09.2017	SAN JOSE, CA - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement regarding President Trump's April 7, 2017 military strike on a Syrian airfield: "President Trump's decision to attack Syria is wrong. "It was done without Congressional debate or approval in violation of the War Powers Act and the Constitution. Congress should immediately reconvene. When we do we should remember the disastrous history of wars waged by America in the Middle East which killed hundreds of thousands and displaced millions more, while nurturing the growth of radical threats like ISIS, Al`Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra and Ahrar al-Sham. "The missile attack appears to be an erratic reaction unconnected to any coherent strategy. Trump says the bombing was in response to the terrible chemical weapon attack on civilians. Yet Trump is unmoved by the deaths of Syrian refugee children at sea and continues to malign and bar Syrian refugee families fleeing the cauldron of war. "The attack is a mistake with potentially disastrous consequences. Any further action must be put before Congress and debated in public with the international and domestic consequences fully considered. When this is done, I expect that Congress will conclude that further military attacks of this sort are the wrong policy."
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced farm operators in Santa Clara County are eligible to be considered for assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) following severe weather from March 3 – June 1, 2016. "After multiple disasters during the 2016 crop year, I'm glad to see the federal government respond to Governor Brown's request for assistance on behalf of farm operators who have experienced losses," said Lofgren. Assistance available includes FSA emergency loans. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), farmers in eligible counties have 8 months from the date of a Secretarial disaster declaration to apply for emergency loans. FSA considers each emergency loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses on the farm, and the security and repayment ability of the operator. The San Benito County Farm Service Agency can provide affected farmers in Santa Clara County with further information: San Benito County Farm Service Agency 2337 Technology Pkwy Ste A Hollister, Ca 95023-2544 (831) 637-4360 # # #
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, 23 House Democrats, led by U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), introduced legislation to protect children and other vulnerable groups in immigration proceedings by ensuring access to counsel, legal orientation programs, and case management services. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act will ensure due process for children and vulnerable individuals, and offer an alternative to ICE raids by the Trump Administration that strike fear in immigrant communities and deport individuals to dangerous countries where they face violence, abuse, or even death. Under current law, there is no right to appointed counsel in immigration removal proceedings, even if the respondent is a child. Statistics show the overwhelming majority of children without attorneys are ordered deported while children with attorneys are five times more likely to be granted protection. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act: Requires the government to appoint counsel to children, and vulnerable individuals, including those with disabilities and victims of abuse, torture, or violence. Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that legal orientation programs are available to all detained immigrants. Creates a case management pilot project to increase court appearance rates. Requires DHS to submit reports to Congress on the number of individuals identified in the Act who were represented by counsel and the number of individuals who received legal orientation presentations. Original cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Zoe Lofgren, Luis Gutierrez, Lucille Roybal-Allard, John Conyers, Judy Chu, Jim McGovern, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Joe Crowley, Marc Veasey, Raul Grijalva, Grace Napolitano, Mike Quigley, Suzanne Bonamici, Albio Sires, John Yarmuth, Suzan DelBene, Linda T. Sanchez, Keith Ellison, Bobby Scott, Jared Huffman, Gwen Moore, Norma Torres, John Lewis. # # #
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On April 1, President Donald Trump issued a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of California. The declaration, granted in response to a request from California Governor Jerry Brown and supported by California's Congressional Delegation, led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), triggers the release of federal funds to help communities affected by the winter storms. "I'm glad to see the federal government respond to Governor Brown's request for assistance," said Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation. "This declaration will go a long ways towards helping repair the damage caused by severe weather this winter." Lofgren led a bipartisan letter from 27 California Members of Congress in support of the State of California's request for a Major Disaster declaration to help address damages sustained during and after storm systems that struck the state in February, after the State had determined "the magnitude and severity of the atmospheric storm systems are beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments to address, and supplemental federal assistance is necessary." 42 counties in California, including Santa Clara, Alameda, San Mateo, Contra Costa, and Santa Cruz, were designated as areas available for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance Program and Hazard Mitigation Program. FEMA's Public Assistance Program provides grants to state and local governments and certain non-profit entities to assist them with the response and recovery from disasters. Specifically the program provides assistance for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and permanent restoration of infrastructure. # # #
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republicans delayed consideration of a privileged resolution offered by U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) on the House Floor today to request President Trump's tax return information. This tax information can determine whether the President is in violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the U.S. Constitution. "The Emoluments Clause was included in the U.S. Constitution to avoid potentially corrupting foreign influences on federal officials," said Lofgren. "President Trump's refusal to extricate himself from his vast business network is deeply concerning, and Congress has a responsibility to hold the Executive Branch accountable and to the highest standard of transparence." Lofgren's resolution marks the fifth time Democrats have introduced a privileged resolution on the floor about Trump's taxes. Each previous attempt was voted down by Republican majorities. Last week, Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democrats invited Richard Painter, former Bush appointee, to testify to the justification for Trump to release his taxes. Tomorrow, the Ways and Means Committee will consider H.RES. 186, a resolution of inquiry on President Trump's tax returns. The full text of Lofgren's resolution is below: RESOLUTION Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the President shall immediately disclose his tax return information to Congress and the American people. Whereas, the Emoluments Clause was included in the U.S. Constitution for the express purpose of preventing federal officials from accepting any "present, Emolument, Office, or Title…from any King, Prince, or foreign state"; Whereas in Federalist No. 22 (Alexander Hamilton) it is said "One of the weak sides of republics, among their numerous advantages, is that they afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption" and; Whereas the delegates to the Constitutional Convention specifically designed the Emoluments Clause as an antidote to potentially corrupting foreign practices of a kind that the Framers had observed during the period of the Confederation, and; Whereas , Article 1, Section 9, Clause 8 of the Constitution states: "no person holding any office of profit or trust … shall, without the consent of the Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever, for any king, prince, or foreign state"; Whereas, in 2009, the Office of Legal Counsel clarified that corporations owned or controlled by foreign governments presumptively qualify as foreign States under the Foreign Emoluments Clause; Whereas the word emoluments means profit, salary, fees or compensation which would include direct payment as well as other benefits including extension of credit, forgiveness of debt or the granting of rights of pecuniary value; Whereas, according to the New Yorker, in 2012, the Trump Organization entered into a deal with Ziya Mammadov to build the Trump Tower Baku in the notoriously corrupt country, Azerbaijan, in possible violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and, by profiting from business with the Mammadov family, due to their financial entanglements with the Iran Revolutionary Guard may have also violated the Emoluments Clause if income from this project continues to flow to the Trump; Whereas, the Trump organization has deals in Turkey, admitted by the President himself during a 2015 Brietbart interview, and when the President announced his travel Ban, Turkey's President called for President Trump's name to be removed from Trump Towers Istanbul, according to the Wall Street Journal, and President Trump's company is currently involved in a major licensing deal for that property which may implicate the Emoluments Clause; Whereas, shortly after election, the President met with the former UK Independence Party leader, Nigel Farage, to get help to stop obstructions of the view from one of his golf resorts in Scotland, according to the New York Times. Both of the golf resorts he owns there are promoted by Scotland's official tourism agency, a benefit that may violate the Emoluments Clause; Whereas, at Trump Tower in New York, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China is a large tenant, according to Bloomberg; the United Arab Emirates leases space, according to the Abu Dhabi Tourism & Culture Authority; and the Saudi Mission to the UN makes annual payments, according to the New York Daily News. Money from these foreign countries goes to the President; Whereas, according to NPR, in February China gave provisional approval for 38 new trademarks for the Trump Organization, which have been sought for a decade to no avail, until President Trump won the election. This is a benefit the Chinese government gave to the President's businesses in possible violation of the Emoluments Clause; Whereas, the President is part owner of a New York building carrying a $950 million loan, partially held by the Bank of China, according to the New York Times, when owing the government of China by the extension of loans and credits by a foreign state to an officer of the United States would violate the emoluments claus; Whereas, NPR reported that, the Embassy of Kuwait held its 600 guest National Day celebration at Trump Hotel in Washington, DC last month, proceeds to Trump; Whereas, according to the Washington Post, the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. has hired a "director of diplomatic sales" to generate high-priced business among foreign leaders and diplomatic delegations; Whereas, according to his 2016 candidate filing with the Federal Election Commission, the President has 564 financial positions in companies located in the United States and around the world; Whereas, against the advice of ethics attorneys and the Office of Government Ethics, the President has refused to divest his ownership stake in his businesses; Whereas, the director of the nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics said that the President's plan to transfer his business holdings to a trust managed by family members is "meaningless" and "does not meet the standards that…every president in the past four decades has met"; Whereas, in the United States' system of checks and balances, Congress has a responsibility to hold the Executive Branch of government to the highest standard of transparency to ensure the public interest is placed first and the Constitution adhered to; Whereas the House Judiciary Committee has the first responsibility among the Committees of the House to see that the elements of our Constitution are adhered to and in furtherance of that responsibility Judiciary Committee Members have historically utilized fact finding and research prior to formal hearings and; Whereas, tax returns provide an important baseline disclosure because they contain highly instructive information including whether the filer paid taxes, what they own, what they have borrowed and from whom, whether they have made any charitable donations, and whether they have taken advantage of tax loopholes and that such information would be material to Members of the Judiciary Committee as research is undertaken on whether President Trump is in violation of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution; Whereas, disclosure of the President's tax returns would be an effective means for the President to provide evidence either refuting or confirming claims of violations of the Emoluments Clause; Whereas the President's tax returns are likely to be essential as Members of the Judiciary Committee work to research potential violations of the Emoluments Clause; Whereas, the Chairmen of the Ways and Means Committee, Joint Committee on Taxation, and Senate Finance Committee have the authority to request the President's tax returns under Section 6103 of the tax code and this power is an essential tool in learning whether the President may be in violation of the Emoluments Clause; Whereas questions involving Constitutional functions and the House's constitutionally granted powers have been recognized as valid questions of the privileges of the House. Resolved, That the House of Representatives shall— 1. Immediately request the tax return information of Donald J. Trump for tax years 2000 through 2015 for review by Congress, as part of a determination as to whether the President is in violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced low-interest federal disaster loans will be made available to Santa Clara County businesses and residents affected by severe storms and flooding that occurred between February 1-25. The U.S. Small Business Administration is acting in response to a request received from California Governor Jerry Brown's director of the Governor's Office of Emergency Services, representative, Mark S. Ghilarducci, on March 17, 2017. "I'm glad to see the federal government respond to Governor Brown's request for assistance on behalf of small business owners and residents here in Santa Clara that have been affected by severe weather," said Lofgren. Beginning Wednesday, March 22, 2017, SBA representatives will be on hand at the below Disaster Loan Outreach Center to answer questions about SBA's disaster loan program, explain the application process and help each individual complete their application. Assistance will be available for Spanish and Vietnamese speaking applicants, and fact sheets are attached. SANTA CLARA COUNTY Disaster Loan Outreach Center City Hall 12th Floor - Room 1231 200 East Santa Clara St. San Jose, CA 95113 Opens 10 a.m. Wednesday, March 22 Mondays - Fridays, 10 a.m. – 7 p.m. Closed Friday, March 31 for Cesar Chavez Day From the U.S. Small Business Administration: Businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory and other business assets. SBA can also lend additional funds to businesses and homeowners to help with the cost of improvements to protect, prevent or minimize the same type of disaster damage from occurring in the future. For small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture and most private nonprofit organizations of any size, SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. Economic injury assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any property damage. Disaster loans up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate. Homeowners and renters are eligible for up to $40,000 to repair or replace damaged or destroyed personal property. Interest rates can be as low as 3.15 percent for businesses, 2.5 percent for private nonprofit organizations and 1.875 percent for homeowners and renters with terms up to 30 years. Loan amounts and terms are set by SBA and are based on each applicant's financial condition. Applicants may apply online using SBA's secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Disaster loan information and application forms are also available from SBA's Customer Service Center by calling (800) 659-2955 or emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Individuals who are deaf or hard?of?hearing may call (800) 877-8339. For more disaster assistance information or to download applications, visit https://www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. The filing deadline to return applications for property damage is May 19, 2017. The deadline to return economic injury applications is Dec. 20, 2017. # # #
03.06.2017	SAN JOSE, CA – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed a revised Muslim and refugee ban Executive Order. The Order bars the entry of nationals from six Muslim-majority countries and suspends U.S. refugee processing: "This revised order is no less a violation of the bedrock American principle of freedom of belief than the original. It remains un-American, unconstitutional, and puts our national security at risk. "Trump's ban makes Americans less safe by playing right into ISIS propaganda, projecting U.S. hostility toward the Muslim world and strengthening ISIS's recruitment push. The order unfairly targets the world's most vulnerable populations by suspending the U.S. refugee program. And at a moment when there are more refugees worldwide than at any point in history, it undermines America's standing abroad and proud tradition of welcoming the oppressed. "Donald Trump has promised a Muslim ban and this new order is his latest attempt to do just that. As Trump advisor Stephen Miller acknowledged, some language may be changed, but the intent and impact are the same. "Fortunately, neither Donald Trump nor his Executive Orders are above the Constitution. I will continue fighting to preserve America's commitment to freedom, humanitarian protection, and to safeguard our national security by defeating Trump's un-American Muslim and refugee ban." # # #
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) led an amici curiae brief signed by 167 Members of Congress in support of plaintiffs suing President Trump in the Eastern District of New York over the recent Executive Order banning travel to the United States from seven Muslim-majority countries. The Members of Congress, 140 Members of the House of Representatives and 27 U.S. Senators, who are signatories to the brief have participated in the drafting of immigration and national security legislation and serve, or have served, on key committees with jurisdiction over these issues. "President Trump's unprecedented Executive Order banning refugees and individuals from seven majority Muslim countries has caused confusion and chaos across the country and around the world," said Senator Coons and Representative Lofgren. "Moreover, it does exactly the opposite of what it intends – it undermines, rather than enhances, our national security interests. The order threatens critical international relationships and alienates those whose cooperation is needed in the fight against violent extremism." "While the order was drafted to appear neutral with respect to religion, it is clear the intent is to target Muslims while giving preferential treatment to Christians – as President Trump and his advisors have repeatedly stated they intended to do. This is a brazen violation of the Constitution's Establishment and Free Exercise Clauses and principles of equal protection, as well as the Immigration and Nationality Act's categorical prohibition of nationality-based discrimination. "The role of an independent judiciary in enforcing these protections is core to our democracy. The best way to protect the security of the nation, to uphold foundational American values, and to safeguard our democracy is to respect the Constitution's fundamental protections and the laws passed by Congress. By those measures, this order fails." As the brief states, the Members of Congress are "committed to ensuring that our immigration laws and policies both help protect the nation from foreign and domestic attacks and comport with fundamental constitutional principles, such as religious freedom and equal protection under the law." The brief goes on, explaining that the Executive Order "is vastly overbroad—targeting both individuals and countries in a way that does nothing to further the Order's stated purpose of ‘protect[ing] the American people from terrorist attacks by foreign nationals admitted to the United States.'" When the Executive Order was issued on January 27, the plaintiffs were detained at JFK Airport upon arrival to the United States. The ACLU, the Jerome N. Frank Legal Services Organization at Yale Law School, the International Refugee Assistance Project, and the National Immigration Law Center are representing the plaintiffs in this class-action lawsuit challenging the President's Executive Order. One plaintiff was immigrating to the United States after being granted a Special Immigrant Visa for his service as an interpreter to U.S. forces. The other plaintiff was immigrating through a Follow to Join Visa, intending to reunite with his wife and son, who were granted refugee status due to their family's association with the United States military. ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement in response to a reported leaked memo detailing Trump Administration plans to mobilize the National Guard to forcibly deport undocumented immigrants: "While the Trump Administration may try to downplay the significance of this document, it is clearly written by top officials within their Administration and lends important insight into the sort of conversations they are leading. "The simple fact that calling in the National Guard to create a ‘deportation force' – as Trump had repeatedly promised he would do during his candidacy for President – has even been discussed and considered at the highest levels of government is chilling. "This draft memorandum makes clear that at least some in the Trump Administration are considering a radical shift towards instituting a police state – with little regard for the fear it creates in immigrant communities, as well as the reaction of everyone else to the possible creation of a police state in America." # # #
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Democratic lawmakers led by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.), and John P. Sarbanes (D-Md.) introduced legislation today to end partisan gerrymandering and reform the nation's patchwork redistricting system. The Redistricting Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 1102), introduced by 48 House Democrats and supported by Common Cause, will require states to establish independent, multi-party citizen redistricting commissions to draw open and transparent statewide district maps after each decennial census. The bill is a component of the "By the People" Legislative Package advanced by the Democracy Reform Task Force. In many states, electoral maps are currently drawn behind closed doors to protect incumbent seats by whatever party holds a statewide majority. Sometimes this process is accelerated in order to swing the outcome of upcoming elections, or in other cases, the two major parties cut backroom deals to preserve the status quo and ensure years of noncompetitive elections. "The issue of redistricting reform is one that is central to our democracy," said Lofgren. "Too often, politicians choose their voters instead of voters picking their elected officials. The Redistricting Reform Act fixes this by creating an apolitical redistricting process where politicians can be held accountable by their voters." "For too long the political gerrymandering of our Congressional districts has undermined the public's trust in our democratic system," said Lowenthal. "To ensure every American's right to fair representation, it is time for the political backroom's influence on the ballot box to be severed." Congressman Lowenthal said. "This bill would guarantee each citizen in every state the same ability to draw Congressional district boundaries without the influence and gamesmanship of politics." "Now, more than ever before, we must restore the trust of the American people in our democracy and in the principle that every vote counts," said Brownley. "Gerrymandering districts erodes the trust of the people and undermines democratic principles. Utilizing independent citizen redistricting commissions will result in a more transparent election process and more accountable representation." "We must restore the public's confidence in the way that Congressional districts are drawn," said Sarbanes, Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force. "That's why I am committed to creating national, independent and objective standards for drawing Congressional districts across the country. Rather than piecemeal reform on a state-by-state basis, implementing federal redistricting reform will ensure a more fair and impartial process for drawing Congressional districts." Under the Redistricting Reform Act of 2017: Each state would be required to establish an independent, multi-party redistricting commission to draw Congressional district maps. Specific eligibility requirements ensure that members of the commissions cannot have certain conflicts of interests, such as lobbyists, political donors or party operatives, and must reflect the diversity of the state while operating transparently. The criteria for a redistricting plan developed by the independent commission provides that districts must: have equal population per representative, in accordance with the U.S. Constitution; comply with the Voting Rights Act of 1965; be geographically contiguous and compact, as well as have boundaries that minimize the division of any community of interest, municipality, county, or neighborhood. The commission must provide ample notice and opportunity for the public to provide input and engage in the redistricting process. Click here for the bill text and a summary of the legislation. Original cosponsors of the Redistricting Reform Act include U.S. Reps. Boyle (D-Pa.), Brown (D-Md.), Brownley (D-Calif.), Clay (D-Mo.), Cohen (D-Tenn.), S. Davis (D-Calif.), Delaney (D-Md.), DeFazio (D-Ore.), Dingell (D-Mich.), Ellison (D-Minn.), Eshoo (D-Calif.), Esty (D-Con.), Foster (D-Ill.), Garamendi (D-Calif.), Hastings (D-Fla.), Hoyer (D-Md.), E.B. Johnson (D-Texas), H. Johnson (D-Texas), Kaptur (D-Ohio), Larson (D-Conn.), Lawrence (D-Mich.), Lee (D-Calif.), Lieu (D-Calif.), Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Matsui (D-Calif.), Nadler (D-N.Y.), Nolan (D-Minn.) Norton (D-District of Columbia), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Pelosi (D-Calif.), Pingree (D-Maine), Quigley (D-Ill.), Raskin (D-Md.), T. Ryan (D-Ohio), Sarbanes (D-Md.), Schiff (D-Calif.), Shea-Porter (D-N.H.), Sherman (D-Calif.), Slaughter (D-N.Y.), Suozzi (D-N.Y.), Swalwell (D-Calif.), Takano (D-Calif.), Thompson (D-Calif.), Veasey (D-Texas), Welch (D-Vt.) , Yarmuth (D-Ky.).
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following considerable public outcry in opposition to President Trump's executive orders on immigration, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) this week introduced new legislation to rescind and defund Trump's interior enforcement and border wall executive orders. The Protecting Our Border Communities Act (H.R. 920) and The Community Trust Act (H.R. 921) will render null and void President Trump's Executive orders issued on January 25, 2017 to construct a border wall and target all undocumented individuals for deportation, respectively. These bills come on the heels of Lofgren's SOLVE Act, legislation to reverse Trump's unconstitutional refugee and travel ban, which has the support of 188 House Democrats. "These executive orders will do virtually nothing to protect Americans, but leave hard working families to foot the bill for Trump's irresponsible policies," said Lofgren. "His border wall will squander over $15 billion. His interior enforcement order will harm public safety by substituting a top-down, anti-immigrant ideology in place of the judgement of local law enforcement officers. It bears reminding that Trump has a history riddled with projects that have left stakeholders with a raw deal, holding the bag for his mistakes. Now those stakeholders are millions of American taxpayers. Congress should act now to stop these irresponsible and dangerous orders." Full text of the Protecting Our Border Communities Act and the Community Trust Act can be found here. # # #
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – 179 House Democrats, led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) today introduced legislation to defund and rescind President Donald Trump's executive order banning travel from Muslim countries and suspending the refugee program. The SOLVE, or Statue of Liberty Values Act, introduced following profound confusion and fear after the implementation of an unprecedented Presidential Executive Order banning refugees and individuals from 7 majority Muslim countries. Over the weekend, Americans witnessed chaos at airports across the country as travelers, including Lawful Permanent Residents, children, and elderly persons were denied entry to the United States. Put simply, this Executive Order is bad policy and it makes our country less safe, and a growing chorus of foreign policy experts has condemned Trump's Muslim and refugee ban as disastrous for U.S. foreign policy and national security. "As a nation of immigrants that has been a refuge for people from around the world, these actions are contrary to who we are as a nation," said Lofgren. "Trump's Order not only harms our families and our economy, it betrays our core values and it makes us less safe. The Statute of Liberty Values Act states that President Trump's Executive Order will have no effect or force of law and states that no funds or fees shall be used to implement the Order." "Donald Trump has recklessly instituted an executive order rooted in Islamophobia and xenophobia," said Conyers. "It rationalizes fear mongering and is an unprecedented break with America's humanitarian tradition, targeting the most vulnerable population in the world – refugees. What makes it even worse is that instead of making us safer, this order has the potential to bolster recruitment for terrorist groups. Today, I'm proud to cosponsor the SOLVe Act which would rescind this disastrous policy. " Conyers is Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Lofgren is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. Full bill text of the SOLVE Act can be found here. # # #
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following introduction of the SOLVE Act, a bill to defund and rescind President Donald Trump's Muslim ban executive order, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) asked for unanimous consent for the House of Representatives to consider her legislation. Despite a bipartisan chorus of foreign policy experts having condemned Trump's Muslim and refugee ban as disastrous for our national security, and a lack of consultation with Congress and President Trump's own Department of Homeland Security and Department of Defense, House Republicans refused to bring Lofgren's bill to the floor for a vote. "In July last year, House Speaker Paul Ryan said that a religious test for entering our country is not reflective of America's values. Today, House Republicans had an opportunity to put those values to the test, but they failed," said Lofgren. "The demonization of Muslims and refugees is antithetical to American values of inclusion and tolerance." Lofgren's call for unanimous consent for the House to consider her legislation today to defund and rescind the President's executive order was denied by the Speaker of the House-designee. # # #
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after President Trump announced executive actions: "I will undertake a legal analysis of President Trump's executive order today, and will issue a comprehensive review soon. However, it is clear that the effects of today's orders will be discriminatory and isolationist. They are un-American, driven by xenophobia, and will damage our nation's standing around the world. "Trump's actions appear to lay the foundation for a total ban on Muslims from entry to the United States – an unprecedented and deeply worrisome development. He further proposes to slash the overall refugee program dramatically and intends to place additional burdens to those who might remain eligible for safe haven. "Perhaps most troubling, today's executive order – issued on Holocaust Remembrance Day, no less – recalls a dark episode in American history. Just over 75 years ago, a ship called the St. Louis, carrying nearly a thousand Jews fleeing Nazi Germany, sailed so close to the United States that passengers could see the lights of Miami. But rather than welcome these refugees, America turned them away. Many of these Jewish refugees were killed by the Nazi's when they were forced to return to Europe. "Making sure that such a tragedy never happens again became the bedrock of U.S. and international refugee and asylum law and policy. Mr. Trump's actions today upend this foundational principle and endanger millions all over the world." # # #
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, today issued the following statement today after President Trump signed orders to build an taxpayer-funded wall on the U.S.-Mexico border and block federal resources to sanctuary cities: "I am undertaking a thorough analysis of President Trump's executive orders on immigration today, and will be issuing a more comprehensive review soon. "In the meantime, it appears President Trump is reinstituting a number of programs that failed and thusly were terminated including Secure Communities and Section 287(g). The programs were ineffective. Further, some local governments faced monetary judgments against them when individuals' rights were violated pursuant to the operation of these programs. "President Trump had previously said he would target dangerous criminals for deportation, a policy established by President Obama. These orders appear to depart from his prior statements. "It appears he has plans for a massive expansion of interior enforcement, tripling the number of ICE agents and targeting all individuals without legal status. We can only assume President Trump intends to engage in widespread raids in communities across America. Raids in past years terrorized law abiding communities, disrupted family life and harmed the economy. "These executive orders seem to be based on the flawed premise that immigrants and refugees are criminals and undesirable elements who harm our country. Trump's actions will harm America and will lead to more family separations, disruption at our southern border and will make it more difficult for us to attract the best and brightest talent from around the world. "I will stand with my Democratic colleagues to speak the truth and to fight to protect the innocent families, women and children President Trump has targeted today." # # #
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today applauded a new Department of Energy (DOE) "scientific integrity" policy announced this week by Secretary Ernest Moniz. The new policy comes after Lofgren pushed for improvements to the Department's scientific integrity policy in a September House Science, Space, and Technology subcommittee hearing. "Compared to the scientific integrity outlines of some other agencies – it's on the short side," said Lofgren at the hearing. "I'm wondering how we might move forward and use this observation in a way to further improve the agency." "I'm pleased to see a robust, updated scientific integrity policy at the Department of Energy," said Lofgren of the updated policy. "These improvements will help protect the pursuit of science and scientists themselves from undue political pressure, and will be of the utmost importance as the Department transitions to a demonstrably anti-science Department head under the Trump Administration." According to the Department of Energy, the DOE Scientific Integrity Policy document sets forth a policy intended to (1) ensure a culture of scientific integrity; (2) strengthen the actual and perceived credibility of the Federal Government and Federal Government sponsored research; (3) facilitate the free flow of scientific and technical information consistent with privacy and classification standards and applicable laws, regulations, and DOE Orders and Policies; and (4) establish principles for conveying scientific and technological information to the public. # # #
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) wrote to Secretary of Homeland Security General John Kelly today following alarming news reports of Canadian citizens subjected to questioning and denied entry to the United States based on political and religious affiliation. "Denying entry to peaceful men and women on a political or religious basis does nothing to protect our security and everything to undermine our core national principles. There is no legal basis for denying an individual for a political or religious reason pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act," the letter reads. Lofgren goes on to ask Secretary Kelly to "conduct a thorough review of border inspection and admission practices so as to prevent unlawful and un-American political or religious tests from determining who may come into our country." The letter notes that "we must maintain an immigration system that is fair, impartial, and worthy of the United States' bedrock commitment to freedom of religious belief and political opinion. Draconian restrictions that discriminate against political opinion or religion run contrary to our nation's character, and harken us back to the dark days of McCarthy-style witch hunts." The full text of the letter can be found here, and below: The Honorable General John F. Kelly Secretary of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly: I applaud your lifetime of distinguished service to the United States military, and your role as Commander of U.S. Special Operations Command South. As you assume leadership of the Department of Homeland Security and its immigration agencies, I look forward to working with you on measures that honor and protect our history as an immigrant nation. I am writing to express my concern regarding recent news reports that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers are denying entry to the United States based on an individual's political and/or religious affiliation. In particular, multiple news outlets have reported that several Canadians were denied entry after they expressed interest in attending the recent Women's March on Washington and the Presidential Inauguration.[1] CBP agents reportedly asked travelers whether they were "pro or anti-Trump," then refused their admission, stating that the travelers would have received entry had they politically supported President Trump. CBP officers reportedly denied another set of peaceful Canadians after questioning not only their political beliefs, but whether they practiced Islam. Denying entry to peaceful men and women on a political or religious basis does nothing to protect our security and everything to undermine our core national principles. There is no legal basis for denying an individual for a political or religious reason pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act. I ask that you conduct a thorough review of border inspection and admission practices so as to prevent unlawful and un-American political or religious tests from determining who may come into our country. If this is reflective of a change in policy within the Department, I urge you to reverse course. If this is merely the actions of a few rogue officers, I encourage you to discipline such action and ensure that it does not occur again. We must maintain an immigration system that is fair, impartial, and worthy of the United States' bedrock commitment to freedom of religious belief and political opinion. Draconian restrictions that discriminate against political opinion or religion run contrary to our nation's character, and harken us back to the dark days of McCarthy-style witch hunts. Moving forward, we may not see eye to eye on all immigration matters, but I am sure we can agree on the need to protect our country's core values. I welcome your future collaboration, appreciate your attention to this important matter, and await your prompt response. Sincerely, _________________________________ Rep. Zoe Lofgren Ranking Member Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Committee on the Judiciary # # #
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced new legislation today to curb H-1B visa outsourcing abuse and to start the overhaul of a broken high-skilled immigration program. The High-Skilled Integrity and Fairness Act of 2017 would curtail abuse of the program which has allowed replacement of American workers by outsourcing companies with cheaper H-1B workers. In several recent incidences, high-profile U.S. employers including Disney, Southern California Edison, and most recently the University of California San Francisco, have made news in this manner. "My legislation refocuses the H-1B program to its original intent – to seek out and find the best and brightest from around the world, and to supplement the U.S. workforce with talented, highly-paid, and highly-skilled workers who help create jobs here in America, not replace them," said Lofgren. "It offers a market-based solution that gives priority to those companies willing to pay the most. This ensures American employers have access to the talent they need, while removing incentives for companies to undercut American wages and outsource jobs." The High-Skilled Integrity and Fairness Act of 2017 prioritizes market based allocation of visas to those companies willing to pay 200% of a wage calculated by survey, eliminates the category of lowest pay, and raises the salary level at which H-1B dependent employer are exempt from nondisplacement and recruitment attestation requirements to greater than $130,000. The bill mirrors an approach to curbing H-1B outsourcing abuse reportedly favored by Trump Administration officials. Among other reforms, the High-Skilled Integrity and Fairness Act 0f 2017: Increases prevailing wage requirements to protect U.S. workers by replacing the current 4-level wage calculation with a new, more balanced, geographically based 3-level formula which eliminates the lowest wage level and puts upward pressure on the wages in the remaining levels. Level 1 = mean of bottom 2/3 of wages surveyed Level 2 = mean of all wages surveyed Level 3 = mean of top 2/3 of wages surveyed Prioritizes market-based allocation of H-1B visas as follows: 1) Employers paying 200% of level 3 prevailing wage, then 150% of level 3 2) Employers paying 200% of level 2 prevailing wage, then 150% of level 2 3) Employers paying 200% of level 1 prevailing wage, them 150% of level 1 Removes the ‘per country' cap for employment based immigrant visas so that all workers are treated more fairly and to move to a system where employers hire the most skilled workers without regard to national origin. Raises the salary level at which H-1B dependent employer are exempt from attestation requirements to a new required wage level of 35 percentile points above the median national annual wage for Computer and Mathematical Occupations published by the Department of Labor Occupational Employment Statistics (roughly $132,000), which would be adjusted in the future without the need for new legislation, and eliminates the Master's Degree exemption for dependent employers. Sets aside 20% of the annually allocated H-1B visas for small and start-up employers (50 or fewer employers) to ensure small businesses have an opportunity to compete for high-skilled workers, while still protecting against outsourcing. Removes visa hurdles for students and other temporary visa holders by building a bridge from F-1 student status to Lawful Permanent Residence. Removes paperwork burdens by streamlining H-1B filing requirements and reducing administrative costs. Full text of the bill and a section by section summary can be found here. # # #
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today applauded the Department of the Interior's official National Historic Landmark designation for Our Lady of Guadalupe Mission Chapel (McDonnell Hall). McDonnell Hall, built in 1911, and the original home of the Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish Chapel, was the home for the Community Service Organization (CSO) César Chávez worked as a community organizer, civil rights leader, and labor rights leader between 1952 and 1962. The work carried out at the chapel ultimately helped shape modern American Latino identity. Lofgren wrote to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell to express her strong support for National Historic Landmark designation for Our Lady of Guadalupe Mission Chapel last fall. "I'm so proud of the communal effort that has led to such a great recognition for this simple chapel where one of our greatest civil rights champions began a movement that changed lives throughout our nation," said Lofgren. "In particular, I want to thank and congratulate Bishop P.J. McGrath, the late Deacon Sal Alvarez, Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish, and the entire community for their tireless advocacy." Chávez, who lived in East San Jose's Sal Si Puedes neighborhood, co-founded the National Farm Worker's Association, and became a renowned civil rights activist who led the movement to improve labor conditions for farm workers. It was at McDonnell Hall where Chávez was introduced through his Catholic faith to the ideas of nonviolence, self-sacrifice, and social justice by Father Donald McDonnell, for whom the building is named. Chávez led the early activities of community organizing including voter registration drives and CSO meetings at McDonnell Hall, which also served as the staging ground for the Farm Labor Movement and the Delano Grape Strikes. The National Historic Landmarks Program recognizes historic properties of exceptional value to the nation and promotes the preservation efforts of federal, state, and local agencies and Native American tribes, as well as those of private organizations and individuals. The program is one of more than a dozen administered by the National Park Service that provide states and local communities technical assistance, recognition and funding to help preserve our nation's shared history and create close-to-home recreation opportunities. # # #
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement today regarding U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson's letter to members of Congress about the personal information of DACA applicants: "I appreciate Secretary Johnson's well-measured response to me and other members of Congress concerned that personal information provided by DACA applicants could be used for immigration enforcement purposes under the incoming Trump administration. In his letter, the Secretary made clear it is the consistent practice of DHS to use the personal information of people seeking deferred action only for the purpose of adjudicating their requests. In doing so, he laid out solid legal basis upon which DACA recipients' and applicants' personal information can and should be protected under any future Presidential administration." A copy of Secretary Johnson's letter can be viewed here.
12.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement regarding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Homeland Security Advisory Council's (HSAC) recent recommendation that DHS move away from the use of private prisons to detain immigrants. HSAC acknowledged DHS's historical reliance on private prisons but concluded that the private prison model is inferior from the perspective of governance, and that a deliberate shift away from the private prison model is warranted." "We applaud the Homeland Security Advisory Council's (HSAC) recent recommendation that DHS move away from the use of private prisons to detain immigrants. After extensive debate and testimony, HSAC voted overwhelmingly (by a vote of 17 to 5) to end DHS's status quo reliance on private prisons. "While some may view the use of private prisons as a cost-cutting measure, in practice, private prisons often cost taxpayers exorbitant amounts of money while at the same time failing to provide safe, sanitary, and humane conditions. We believe that the private prison companies' for-profit model combined with insufficient accountability mechanisms has created an environment whereby private prison companies are able to abuse immigrant detainees with impunity. "We understand that the HSAC decision, while powerful and groundbreaking, comes at the end of DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson's tenure and the process to completely dismantle the private prison detention system will take years to complete. However, there are steps that Secretary Johnson can take immediately. First, he can enforce termination clauses in contracts with the for-profit private prison facilities, beginning with those with the worst records of abuse and neglect. Second, he can end family detention and expand alternatives to detention. Third, he can ensure that any new contracts require strong transparency provisions (including robust public access) and use ICE's most recent detention standards to protect against future abuse of immigrant detainees. Lastly, he can work with the transition team to encourage the HSAC recommendations to be followed by the next Administration." HSAC is a non-partisan expert council comprised of former high-level DHS officials, police chiefs, retired generals, business executives, law professors, national security experts, and academics. The HSAC Dissent is as follows: "Based on the review this subcommittee conducted, I respectfully dissent from the conclusion that reliance on private prisons should, or inevitably must, continue. I concede, as reflected in this recommendation, that overall enforcement policy, historical reliance on private prisons, and geographic concerns are presently driving reliance on private facilities. also acknowledge that any shift away from such reliance would take years, carry significant costs, and require congressional partnership. As a result, I understand the position adopted by the subcommittee, but I disagree that these obstacles require our deference to the status quo. First, in my estimation, the review undertaken by the subcommittee points directly toward the inferiority of the private prison model from the perspective of governance and conditions. To be sure, fiscal and flexibility considerations represented countervailing factors. However, on balance, my preliminary judgment, based on the evidence we actually gathered as part of this review, is that a measured but deliberate shift away from the private prison model is warranted. Second, as the body of this report acknowledges, the short time line and tools at our disposal necessarily limited the depth of our review. As such, I emphasize the preliminary nature of my judgment above. I believe, however, that recommendation (1) likewise should have acknowledged that process constraints rendered any firm conclusion on the appropriate mix of detention models premature. Third, a number of key issues that went beyond the scope of this review are too consequential and too integral to allow for a fully informed decision on federal versus private detention models. A meaningful determination on the best detention model in light of all relevant factors demands deeper investigation. Any such investigation should consider a broader set of questions regarding the most effective and humane approach to civil detention as well as whether alternatives to detention could lead to diminished reliance on physical incarceration. Absent that type of thorough review, I cannot, in good conscience, agree that status quo reliance on the continuation of the private detention model is warranted or appropriate. Aside from this fundamental question, I strongly concur in the remainder of the subcommittee's recommendations regarding steps that should be taken immediately to improve the conditions, inspections, and oversight of extant facilities." # # #
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Mineta National Transportation Research Consortium at San Jose State University was awarded $7 million in federal funding for transportation research, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today. The grant requires a fifty percent match by regional and state partners, in total a $10.5 million investment. The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation's University Transportation Centers program in five yearly installments of $1.4 million, will serve the country's transportation community by providing research, education, workforce development, and technology transfer activities focused on improving the mobility of people and goods to help ensure our nation's transportation system is fast, safe, efficient, accessible, and convenient for all. "I'm pleased to see a substantial federal investment in the mobility of people and goods that will help drive innovation to meet the needs of communities like ours in San Jose," said Lofgren. "Investments like this help harness the know-how needed for better transit systems that move people more efficiently, protect the environment, and help boost our economy." "It would be difficult to overstate the contribution that the Mineta Transportation Institute has made to advancing our understanding of the far-reaching potential of mobility to effect change in people's lives," said Norman Y. Mineta, U.S. Secretary of Transportation (ret.) "Without a doubt, the Mineta Transportation Institute has been a source of personal pride for me." The Mineta National Transportation Research Consortium (MNTRC), led by the Mineta Transportation Institute at San Jose State University, combines the transportation research and education programs at Howard University, Navajo Technical University, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and San Jose State University to leverage each program's expertise to find new real-world solutions to the nation's transportation challenges. The Consortium supports cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary activities that advance transportation expertise and contribute to effective transportation decision-making. "Where human beings are concerned, the difference between having and lacking mobility is no less than the difference between having and lacking opportunity," said MNTRC Executive Director Dr. Karen Philbrick. "MNTRC research and other products will work together to create a transportation system that is sustainable and egalitarian and recognizes and responds to current trends." Lofgren led a letter of support for the Consortium's grant application in May, and was joined by U.S. Reps. Mike Honda (D-Calif.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Alma S. Adams (D- N.C.), Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-Ariz.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-District of Columbia), and Ben Ray Lujan (D-N.M.). # # #
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement regarding President-Elect Donald Trump's nomination of Marine Gen. John Kelly to lead the Department of Homeland Security "The Department of Homeland Security has a wide-array of responsibilities, from providing humanitarian relief for asylum-seekers to protecting our nation's borders to assisting communities after natural disasters. The individual charged with leading this multi-faceted agency will face enormous challenges – including administration of the Department itself. "While Marine General John Kelly apparently has little experience with immigration, President-elect Trump has used vitriolic rhetoric to describe immigrants, promised to deport millions, and bar Muslims from entering the country. "Concerns have been raised that General Kelly's appointment could contribute to a militarization of our nation's immigration system. Immigrants are not the enemy. Rather, for generations, immigrants have flocked to our shores to build their dreams, and in turn they have grown our economy and enriched our country in numerous ways. I hope General Kelly understands this, and will take this opportunity to enforce immigration laws in a practical, humane way that makes sense for America – for our families, businesses and entrepreneurs, and our values as a nation." # # #
12.01.2016	Washington, DC – In the wake of reports about the Trump Administration's plans to create a special registration program for Muslims, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) today led 51 House Democrats in calling for President Barack Obama to completely dismantle the regulatory framework behind the discriminatory National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS) before his administration ends. The Obama Administration effectively ended the program in 2011; however, the apparatus remains. House Democrats are calling for the NSEERS regulatory framework to be eliminated. Full text of the letter is available here and below: Dear President Obama: We urge you to rescind the regulatory framework behind the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS) located at 8 CFR 264.1(f). While we commend your Administration for effectively ending the program in 2011, we believe that eliminating the apparatus of NSEERS is consistent with our country's fundamental values of fairness and equality. The NSEERS program was announced in the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The most controversial portion of the NSEERS program involved a "domestic" registration system that targeted certain males who entered the United States on nonimmigrant visas from primarily Arab, Muslim-majority, African, and South Asian countries. The program was fundamentally flawed in its false assumption that people of a particular religion or nationality pose a greater national security risk and should be subject to racial profiling. The program is reminiscent of – and indeed has been compared to – the dark time in our history when innocent people were interned based on their Japanese ancestry. When instituted in 2002, the program caused widespread and palpable fear in affected communities, separated families and caused much harm to people affected by it. Boys and men were required to register with local immigration offices, were interrogated, and subjected to serious due process violation. Communities saw family members and neighbors disappear in the middle of the night, held in overcrowded jails and deported without due process. More than 13,000 people were placed in removal proceedings, businesses closed down, and students were forced to leave school with degrees uncompleted. In addition to the harm that NSEERS caused to communities, the program was ineffective as a counter-terrorism tool. A 2012 Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General report found the program to be inefficient and a waste of resources, costing American taxpayers more than $10 million annually.[1] The report characterized the data collected through the program as unreliable. No known terrorism convictions have resulted from the program. We stand together in opposition to policies that would target people based on their religion, race, ethnicity or national origin. We urge the Administration to immediately rescind the NSEERS regulation as a re-affirmation of its commitment to equal protection under the law. Sincerely, John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Allen Lowenthal (D-CA), James A Himes (D-CT), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), David E. Price (D-NC), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), James McGovern (D-MA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Mark Takano (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Michael F. Doyle (D-PA). # # # [1] DHS Office of Inspector General, Information Sharing on Foreign Nationals: Border Security (Redacted) (Feb. 2012) available at http://www.oig.dhs.gov/assets/Mgmt/2012/OIGr_12-39_Feb12.pdf .
11.17.2016	Today, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) held a press conference at the U.S. Capitol to release a letter they have written to President Obama asking him to use the President's pardon authority to protect DREAMers – young people who were brought to the United States as children and signed up for DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals). The letter can be read here. Since it began in 2012, approximately 750,000 young people have come forward to register under the DACA initiative. They have paid fees, submitted fingerprints, and undergone a background check. The goal of the program is to protect from deportation these young immigrants who are assets to their communities.The press conference can be viewed here. ###
11.01.2016	SAN JOSE, C.A. – Today, in response to reports that the University of California San Francisco plans to lay-off one-third of its IT workforce in favor of H-1B employees, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren wrote to UC President Janet Napolitano, calling on her to reverse her decision to outsource American IT jobs. The letter, sent November 1st reads: "As you may know from prior comments I have made, I believe the University of California's plan to oursouce IT staff, including 80 jobs at the San Francisco campus, should be reversed. Based on your service as the Secretary of Homeland Security, the department with principal jurisdiction over immigration, I am sure you know that using the H-1B program to replace the University's IT staff would be a misuse of this visa category. "The H-1B program's intended purpose is to promote American competitiveness by providing access for U.S. employers to highly-skilled foreign nationals to fill critical skills shortages. It is meant to supplement – not replace ­– the American workforce. Congress never intended that the H-1B program be sued to undercut wages for domestic workers or to facilitate offshoring of U.S. jobs. ... "I urge you to reconsider using the H-1B program to outsource American IT jobs. Not only will this protect American workers, it will avoid unnecessary risks to patients and California's taxpayers caused by offshoring the University's critical IT enterprise." Lofgren had previously spoken out against the University's decision to outsource IT jobs. # # #
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan Members of Congress this week filed an Amicus Curiae brief in support of a legal challenge to the Department of Justice's use of National Security Letter gag orders and improper implementation of the USA FREEDOM Act. The brief, filed by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), F. James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), and Ted Poe (R-Texas) details the members' objections to the manner in which the Department of Justice reviews nondisclosure orders. Reps. Sensenbrenner and Conyers were the lead authors of the USA FREEDOM Act which passed in 2015. "Although Congress recognizes that the Executive branch is entitled to deference in matters of national security, the FBI's NSL authority is bound by the law and constitutional limits" the brief reads. "It is [our] view that the rules currently in place for reviewing NSL nondisclosure orders do not meet the requirements of the USA FREEDOM Act and are unconstitutional." The Amicus argues the following: 1) That Congress made clear in passing the USA FREEDOM Act that non-disclosure obligations should have fixed durations, and that these orders should be reviewed at appropriate intervals to determine whether the facts of the case still support nondisclosure. However, current Department of Justice review procedures do not fulfill Congress' intent to ensure regular, periodic review. Instead, the process provides at most two reviews: once three years after the iniation of a full investigation, and a second at some "time between the last review and the close of the investigation," which could rage from days to decades. The brief explains this is inconsistent with the letter of the law and intent of Congress. 2) The Department of Justice review procedures violate the First Amendment because they fail to meet strict scrutiny and do not include sufficient procedural safeguards.NSL recipients are subjected to substantial harm and are prevented from meaningfully participating in public debate or sharing their experienecs with Congress. Due to the flawed review process, this may be the case even when a compelling government interest in nondisclosure no longer exists. As the brief reads, "imposing a perpetual nondisclosure obligation when there is not potential countervailing harm is incompatible with the narrow tailoring requirement of the strict scrutiny standard." While the number of individals subjected to NSL gag orders has not been determined, reporting suggests it is large. Between 2013 and 2015 the FBI issued over 48,000 letters of which 97% may have been accompanied by nondisclosure orders. The Amicus brief was filed in support of the plaintiffs of In Re: National Security Letters in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The full brief can be viewed here. # # #
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A combined $834,759 in federal funding for new programs at San Jose State University was announced today by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). Two grants, awarded by the National Science Foundation, will support an interdisciplinary technology program for undergraduates and a study of astronomical science at SJSU. A third grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services will support a new SJSU program to help libraries explore expanding internet access in their communities. "I'm glad to see San Jose State University succeed in seeking federal funding to support new and exciting scholastic programs," said Lofgren. "These grants will help bring to SJSU the resources to better serve students and the university community at large." $482,106 is designated for a project entitled "A Technology Pathway Program in Data Technology and Applications." The interdisciplinary program consists of four technical classes covering Python programming, data structures and algorithms, data technology, and a senior project. Additionally, program participants will be connected to professors and industry professionals in Silicon Valley for student support and role-modeling. If successful, it will likely spur other campuses to develop similar programs. An additional $102,655 will help fund a San Jose State University investigation of the enigmatic "dark matter" in nearby galaxies by studying starlight at optical wavelengths and focusing on the faint outskirts of giant galaxies and recently-discovered dwarf galaxies. The project, called "Dark Matter in Galaxy Halos" will also use chemodynamics to map out dark matter distributions of giant early-type galaxies to study their assembly history. A final $249,998 is to be awarded as a National Leadership Grant for Libraries – a program that supports projects that address significant challenges and opportunities facing the library and archive fields. The project award in San Jose State University will help libraries dramatically expand internet access in their communities by using TVWhiteSpace – a new low-cost wireless technology – to provide connectivity as a part of disaster preparedness. The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provide the foundation for economic growth in this country. The Institute of Museum and Library Services is the primary source of federal support for the nation's 123,000 libraries and 35,000 museums. # # #
09.23.2016	SAN JOSE, C.A. – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley) announced the Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport will receive more than $15 million in federal funding for infrastructure improvements and perimeter security through two U.S. Department of Transportation grants. Of the two Airport Improvement Program grants, $8,125,303 will be designated to install perimeter fencing following several incidents of security breaches at Mineta San Jose Airport over the past years. Last year, Lofgren and Honda helped secure an initial $3.4 million in federal funding for improved perimeter security at the airport. An additional $7,200,614 will be used to rehabilitate the Airport's "apron" - the area where aircraft are parked, unloaded or loaded, refueled, or boarded. "I'm pleased to see another sizeable federal investment in Mineta San Jose International," said Lofgren. "By ensuring the airport's safety and by maintaining the critical infrastructure, we are taking steps to ensure that more businesses and travelers will choose Mineta as the gateway to the Valley." "This funding will help make Mineta Airport one of the safest and most modern airports, and will create good-paying jobs," said Honda. "It is only fitting that the airport that serves the innovation capital of the world, Silicon Valley, should be cutting edge and able to attract new carriers and provide international flights." Lofgren and Honda are strong supporters of the improvements and have been instrumental in securing past federal grants for Mineta San Jose International Airport. # # #
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Santa Clara Valley Habitat Conservation Plan will receive $2,000,000 in federal funding for endangered species habitat acquisition, announced U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley) today. The grant, a part of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, will support the acquisition of up to 3,286 acres in Santa Clara County to protect key habitat for federal endangered species such as the bay checkerspot butterfly, California tiger salamander, and California red-legged frog. These purchases will secure linkages to protect habitat and help ameliorate the effects of climate change on endangered species by providing a range of environmental gradients. "This is an exciting opportunity for Santa Clara County to set aside and care for open spaces and the wildlife which depend on them," said Lofgren. "Smart federal investments like these in our local community helps ensure that generations to come will also appreciate the Bay Area's natural wonder and beauty." "As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I've been fighting to increase funding for the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund," said Honda. "I'm pleased that these funds will be coming to Santa Clara County to support the work being done in our community to preserve species while facilitating economic development and job creation." In addition to providing regulatory protections that have successfully prevented the extinction of hundreds of species, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) also provides millions of dollars in funding each year for conservation efforts through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund (CESCF). This year, threatened and endangered species in 20 states will benefit from $44.8 million in grants from the fund. # # #
09.16.2016	SAN JOSE, CA – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced a new federal grant was awarded to South Bay Area video compression startup NGCodec Inc. The $750,000 grant, awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program, will support NGCodec's video encoder project, a hardware field programmable gate-array (FGPA) implementation of H.265/HEVC low latency encoder algorithms for next-generation video compression. "With the lion's share of online data consumed by video, next-generation video compression is vital to future internet innovations," said Lofgren. "Applying better compression and reducing the amount of data needed for video promises huge improvements in the quality, cost and experience of streaming video online. The practical applications of quality, low cost video streaming are limitless. I look forward to hearing more encouraging news from the promising entrepreneurs at NGCodec." The SBIR is a highly competitive program that encourages domestic small businesses to engage in Federal Research and Development that has the potential for commercialization. The Phase II grant awarded to NGCodec, Inc. is based on the results achieved in Phase I and the scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the project proposed in Phase II of the project. # # #
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today unanimously approved by a vote of 399-0 the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act of 2016, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) to provide protections for survivors of sexual assault. The bill will ensure that sexual assault survivors in federal criminal cases have a right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit, are notified in writing before the kit is destroyed, request preservation of the kit, and are informed of important results from a forensic examination. The Survivors' Bill of Rights Act also requires the Attorney General and the United States Department of Health and Human Services to convene a joint working group on best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. "Today's vote to pass the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act means we are one step closer to ensuring victims of sexual assault have meaningful access to justice," said Lofgren "But it is also a testament to the strong women who refused to be victims, who walked into my office just four months ago with an idea to improve the lives of millions of survivors, shared their stories with the world, and today watched the passage of their bill on the House floor. They are the real difference-makers, and they are an inspiration to me." Original sponsors of the legislation are U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren and Mimi Walters (R-Laguna Niguel), two members of the House Judiciary Committee. Lofgren's full floor statement in support of the legislation is below: Mr. Speaker, passing the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act is an important step in enacting protections and ensuring access to justice for many Americans who are survivors of sexual assault. In May, just this last May, I found myself meeting with Amanda Nguyen, Lara McLeod, and Marisa Ferri and their friends in my office as part of Assault Awareness Month. They had asked to meet with me, as the senior woman on the Judiciary Committee, and then they told me I was the first actual Member of Congress whom they had been able to meet with. When I did listen to them, this is what I heard: Amanda Nguyen told me about her rape, that every 6 months she was faced with the choice of reliving her past trauma or having the State of Massachusetts destroy essential evidence that would assist in the prosecution of her rapist: her medical forensic examination, or rape kit. When Amanda sought information on how to prevent her rape kit from being destroyed, police provided conflicting information. She was even told at one point that the kit would be stored indefinitely, which was not correct. She then had to go back and forth between police and State lab techs trying to locate her kit. And even when she found it and got the extension on storing it, the technicians moved her kit without telling her, and she now has to file an extension every 6 months just to preserve the evidence. I listened to Marisa Ferri tell me that she thought her rape would be the most traumatic experience of her life, but what she found out was that even more traumatic, according to her, was the way she was further victimized by the system after being raped. When Marisa went to the hospital to seek medical treatment and requested a forensic exam, she was prevented from doing so until after she spoke with the detective. She asked if the interview could wait until the volunteer from the Rape Crisis Center arrived, but was told that she had to be interviewed then if she wanted to press charges. Alone and confused, Marisa underwent nearly hours of questioning by a detective who tried to discourage her from filing a report and blamed her, according to Marisa, for her own rape. Marisa is, unfortunately, not alone in being misinformed about her rights, and being interrogated instead of being allowed the opportunity to undergo a rape kit procedure in an expedient manner and to ensure the maximum effectiveness that the evidence has been collected. Marisa endured 6 weeks of repeated questioning by the detective about her behavior on the night of the rape. At times, she said she felt like she was the one under investigation. Initially, her case was closed without the rape kit being tested. It was only after she filed a formal complaint that the case was reopened more than a year later and the rape kit was tested. Many survivors would have given up on a system that had failed them as much as the system failed her and would not have pursued reopening their closed case. Lara McLeod suffered through further victimization after sexual assault. She reports that, at 19 years of age, she was raped by her sister's fiance, but she did not want to report the crime. Instead, her family, who she told about her sexual assault, informed the police, and she was told to go to the station for a formal interview. After a cursory investigation, she reports that the police accused her of lying about the rape and arrested her.Her sister was charged with obstructing justice for aiding Lara's alleged deceit. The false charge against Lara and her sister were eventually expunged, but not before damage to reputation and her sister's savings being spent on dismissing the charges and, worse yet, her sister being denied full custody of her infant son because of the charge against her, which ultimately resulted in this son dying while in the custody of Lara's rapist. I mention these terrifying stories because that is what this bill is all about. It is also about the power of individuals to change the law. After I heard their stories, within 2 hours, I talked to Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte on the House floor and told him about these stories. To his credit, Chairman Goodlatte immediately contacted his staff to make sure that we could work together on this bill. Only 2 short months later, the Judiciary Committee unanimously approved this legislation. The House version includes a small improvement on the text passed by the Senate; and it is my hope that, after passage in the House, the Senate will also approve this version so it can be sent to President Obama for his signature. I want to thank all the members of the Judiciary Committee for their action. But even more, I want to thank the courageous victims of rape who formed the group RISE, who did rise and who exerted their power to take control of this situation, who would not accept being victimized but, instead, decided to take their trauma and change the law so that other victims will have more power than they had. The congratulations go to them. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. A video of Congresswoman Lofgren's statement at House Judiciary Committee Markup of the Assault Survivor's Bill of Rights Act can be viewed here.
09.02.2016	SAN JOSE, CA – On August 29, 2016, the Department of Homeland Security published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for foreign startup entrepreneurs. Under this proposed rule, DHS may parole, on a case-by-case basis, eligible entrepreneurs whose startup companies provide "significant public benefit." U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley), and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) applauded the proposed rule as an important step towards creating jobs for Americans and benefiting the economy. "This is a welcome and long overdue change to help foreign entrepreneurs start and build their companies here in the United States, rather than losing them to our competitors abroad," said Lofgren. "Far too frequently, I meet foreign entrepreneurs who have lined up venture or seed capital and are ready to start hiring, but are blocked by our broken, outdated immigration laws. That makes no sense – especially when these entrepreneurs are students or graduates of U.S. universities who have spent years studying and working in the United States. Our nation thrives when we welcome immigrants and innovating job creators. I am eager to see these new rules implemented, and will be working closely with the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services leaders to ensure the new rules meet the needs of entrepreneurs here in Silicon Valley and across the country "As encouraging as these new rules are, executive action is no substitute for legislative action. If Republicans are serious about incentivizing economic growth, stimulating entrepreneurship, and attracting foreign investment to the United States, they should stop delaying, get back to work, and pass the EB-Jobs Act, legislation I introduced to create a new green card category for entrepreneurs who establish start-up businesses, create jobs for American workers and benefit the American economy." "I applaud the Department of Homeland Security for this long-awaited rule, which will help our nation attract and retain the best and brightest foreign entrepreneurs," said Honda. "America's history of innovation was written by exceptional talent from around the world who benefit from our innovation-driven business environment. Maximizing and capitalizing on diversity means new technology, new industries we haven't even imagined yet, and many more jobs for Americans. I hope that Republicans recognize that we need congressional action to provide a permanent path for such individuals to obtain a green card. This is a clear win for all of us." "The Department's proposed rule has the potential to be a game changer for Silicon Valley and other startup hotbeds across the U.S.," said Eshoo. "For years, I've assisted foreign entrepreneurs who have founded companies and created jobs in the United States, but are forced out of the country by our outdated immigration laws. I've long supported legislation to grant visas and full legal status to promising foreign entrepreneurs, but in the absence of Congressional action the Department's proposed rule could have tremendous economic benefits for our country." Entrepreneurs eligible for parole include individuals: Who have at least a 15 percent company ownership and an active role in management; Whose startup was formed in the United States within the past three years; and Whose startup has demonstrated potential for business growth and job creation, as evidenced by: Receiving significant investment of capital (at least $345,000) from qualified U.S. investors; Receiving significant awards or grants (at least $100,000) from federal, state or local government entities; or Partially satisfying one or both of the above criteria in addition to other reliable and compelling evidence of the startup entity's substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation.
08.09.2016	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today applauded a federal study being conducted on McDonnell Hall to determine its potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark. McDonnell Hall, built in 1911 and originally a Catholic parish in an impoverished San Jose neighborhood, served as the birthplace of César E. Chávez's social justice movement and the farm labor movement. "This simple chapel nurtured one of our greatest civil rights champions and a movement that changed the lives of farm workers throughout our nation," said Lofgren. "The work of César Chávez had a profound impact and continues to benefit our community and the nation at large. We should not lose the few sites that remain from Chávez's life. We should preserve them and celebrate their history." Chávez, who lived in East San Jose's Sal Si Puedes neighborhood, co-founded the National Farm Worker's Association, becoming a renowned civil rights activist who led the movement to improve labor conditions for farm workers. It was at McDonnell Hall where Chávez was introduced through his Catholic faith to the ideas of nonviolence, self-sacrifice, and social justice by Father Donald McDonnell, for whom the building is named. Chávez led the early activities of community organizing including voter registration drives and CSO meetings at McDonnell Hall, which also served as the staging ground for the Farm Labor Movement and the Delano Grape Strikes. The National Historic Landmarks Program, administered by the United States Department of the Interior, focuses attention on properties of exceptional value to the nation, and that illustrate important persons or events in history. Designating McDonnell Hall as a National Historical Landmark will help preserved a significant local historical resource to benefit future generations. McDonnell Hall was designated a California historical landmark in 2014. # # #
08.08.2016	SANTA CLARA, CA – Nearly $2.5 million in federal funding was awarded to Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority (VTA) to purchase electric zero-emissions buses and related infrastructure. The federal grant was announced today by U.S. Reps. Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). The grant of $2,458,305 – competitively awarded under the U.S. Department of Transportation's Low or No Emission Bus and Bus Facilities program – will be used to purchase battery electric zero-emission buses and fast-charging stations, upgrade a maintenance facility to service electric buses, and provide workforce development on new technology buses. The project represents smart, strategic integrated investments to help reduce carbon pollution and strengthen the economy while maximizing returns on public investments. In a letter supporting VTA's grant application this June, Honda, Eshoo and Lofgren wrote that the "funding will provide an ideal opportunity for the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to highlight clean and energy-efficient, American-made, electric-powered transit busses making an impact." "This is another example of how effective leadership at the federal level can support innovative efforts locally to promote the use of clean, green transportation options that will reduce traffic on our roadways," said Honda. "This is an important triumph for our region and for our environment." "It is VTA's role to pursue the most forward-thinking mobility solutions on the market to help us achieve our innovation and sustainability goals for our communities," said Nuria Fernandez, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority General Manager and CEO. "Integrating zero emission buses into our system is a top priority as we continue to redefine transit service in Silicon Valley, the most emblematic innovation hub in the world." "Particular thanks to Congressman Mike Honda, whose leadership position on the House Appropriations Committee carries special weight," said Lofgren. The electric buses will provide free public transportation connections between VTA's Metro Light Rail Station in San Jose, Mineta Airport, and the Caltrain Commuter Rail Station in Santa Clara. # # #
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With refugees fleeing violence worldwide, House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), and Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced bicameral legislation Thursday to bolster and update the nation's laws to promote a more fair and efficient asylum and refugee process. Over the past five years, more than half of Syria's 23 million people have been forced from their homes. The vast majority of these are women and children. Closer to the United States, increasing violence in the Northern Triangle of Central America has forced thousands of mothers and children to flee and seek refuge. El Salvador and Guatemala have the highest child murder rates in the world, and, along with Honduras, among the highest female murder rates. Further contributing to the sense fear generated by these murders is the inability of the governments to hold perpetrators accountable and keep them from victimizing again. From 2010 to 2013, 95 percent of murders in the Northern Triangle were unsolved or unprosecuted. The Refugee Protection Act reaffirms the commitments made when the United States ratified the 1951 Refugee Convention, and will help to restore the United States to its rightful role as a safe and welcoming home for those suffering persecution around the world. It would repeal some of the most significant barriers facing refugees and asylum seekers in their search for safety and protection. It would increase protection for children and families, and those suffering gender-based persecution or persecution for their LGBT identity. "The United States has long been a global leader in offering safety and protection to victims of terror, abuse, and brutal regimes," said Lofgren. "Today's global refugee crisis warrants an historic response both at home and abroad. There are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons today than at any time since World War II. This bill will ensure we continue to lead by example and advance our commitment to protecting and assisting the world's most vulnerable people." "Now, more than ever, we must reaffirm our role as a humanitarian leader and renew our commitment to those fleeing persecution across the world," said Leahy. "I am hopeful that if we pause and remember the role refugees and asylum-seekers have played for generations in making our communities strong and vibrant, we will be able to move past the hateful, ugly rhetoric of this campaign season. Our moral obligation to innocent victims of persecution demands it and our national interest requires it." "We have a responsibility to fulfill the commitment we have made to refugees in dire need of our help," said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.). "It's important to remember that these are people who are being persecuted for their beliefs or their background. Our country must continue to serve as a beacon of hope for these individuals, and this bill ensures we implement a fair process to protect refugees seeking asylum. This is not only a humanitarian issue, but it is a national security imperative. When we refuse to help those fleeing violence, we empower those who seek to do our country harm." "The United States has always been, and should always be, a place of refuge," said Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.). "There are as many as 60 million refugees world-wide today—more than at any time since World War II—as, across the globe, people are fleeing unspeakable violence, persecution, terror, sexual slavery, and torture. We should not revisit the shameful policies of the past and we cannot be guided by irrational fear. We must do what we can to help those seeking the safety of our shores so they can build a new life for themselves and for their families. This is a moral obligation, not just to offer safety but fairness and equality to those fleeing persecution, and I am proud to back this much needed refugee reform legislation." The Refugee Protection Act also would ensure that children and vulnerable adults in immigration court do not face a judge and prosecutor without a lawyer. It would update conditions of immigration detention so that they address important issues of access to counsel, religious practice, and visits from family. The legislation would authorize a study of the refugee resettlement program and improve the collection of data to ensure that the system uses resources efficiently. The Senate bill is cosponsored by Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.). The House bill is cosponsored by Reps. John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Robert A. Brady (D-Pa.), David N. Cicilline (D-R.I.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), Mike Honda (D-Calif.), Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), Doris O. Matsui (D-Calif.), Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), Beto O'Rourke (D-Texas), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), Linda T. Sánchez (D-Calif.), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Albio Sires (D-N.J), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Marc A. Veasey (D-Texas), Peter Welch (D-Vt.). The Refugee Protection Act is supported by a wide range of refugee, immigration, and faith-based organizations. An outline of the bill can be found here and a sectional analysis can be found here. Text of legislation can be found here.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.) introduced legislation to provide a coordinated regional response to address root causes of Central American violence driving the migration of women and children. The Secure the Northern Triangle Act, a House companion to legislation introduced last month by Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, authorizes critical foreign assistance to restore the rule of law and address Central American violence and instability, provides for refugee processing in the region, and orderly and humane screening of individuals who reach the U.S.-Mexico Border seeking protection. It also cracks down on smugglers, cartels and traffickers exploiting children and families. "Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, should be able to live free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution," said Lofgren. "An enforcement-only focus on family detention, deterrence, arrests, and deportations has proven ineffective. It's time we reevaluate our response to this crisis and start working towards a solution that provides a practical, humane, and regional solution to the root causes of violence in the Northern Triangle region." "My heart breaks for vulnerable people forced to make the dangerous journey through Central America to our southern border. We need to ensure that desperate people arriving here are treated with dignity and care. At the same time, we need to take a hard look at what's forcing these people to flee their communities in the first place," said Engel. "So I'm proud to join Representative Lofgren in offering this measure. Our bill works to address the root causes of violence and poverty in the Northern Triangle by authorizing key foreign assistance to the region, provides protections for those who have been forced to flee their homes, and goes after the criminal networks responsible for the problems." The Secure the Northern Triangle Act: Addresses the root causes of the violence and instability that are driving migration. El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras are among the most dangerous countries in the world, especially for women and children. Their populations face unrelenting and increasing violence, including murder and rape, perpetrated by armed criminal gangs and drug traffickers that act with impunity. The legislation creates a more secure environment for children and families; strengthen democratic public institutions and reduce corruption; and promote economic opportunities. This funding is conditioned on the State Department certifying that the governments are implementing reforms and makings progress on critical priorities. Cracks down on smugglers, cartels, and traffickers exploiting children and families. Smuggling and trafficking rings exploit the desperation of those seeking protection. The legislation creates new criminal penalties for human smuggling, schemes to defraud immigrants, and bulk cash smuggling. It also expands the work by the Department of Homeland Security and law enforcement agencies to disrupt and prosecute smuggling and trafficking rings. Establishes a regional framework for refugee protection. Due to ongoing, rampant violence in the region, women and children are fleeing their countries in search of protection. The legislation helps Mexico and other Central American countries to strengthen their own asylum systems, expands refugee processing for third-country resettlement and expands the Central American Minors program to provide women and children an alternative to making the dangerous journey north. Ensures safety of unaccompanied children after they are processed at the border. The legislation strengthens the Department of Health and Human Services' ability to oversee the safety and wellbeing of children released to an adult sponsor while they await their court hearing by requiring consistent, uniform and timely background checks, post-placement wellness checks and post-release services. The bill also provides resources and guidance to local school districts enrolling unaccompanied children. Ensures fair, orderly and efficient processing of those who do reach our border seeking protection. The United States has a long tradition of standing up for refugees around the world. We have the capacity and responsibility to do so now with those fleeing increasing violence in our own hemisphere. The legislation provides a fair legal process for children and families seeking asylum, improves immigration court efficiencies by requiring a significant increase in the number of immigration judges to ensure the prompt resolution of immigration claims, and establishes re-integration programs in the region that reduce the likelihood of re-migration for those who do not have legal grounds to stay in the United States. Original cosponsors include: U.S. Reps. Steny Hoyer (D-M.D.), John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Theodore E. Deutch (D-Fla.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), Norma J. Torres (D-Calif.), Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.), Joaquin Castro (D-Texas), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), Albio Sires (D-N.J.), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.). Section by section summary and full bill text found here. # # #
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, a bipartisan group of lawmakers, led by co-chairs U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Ted Poe (R-Texas), announced the newly formed Fourth Amendment Caucus to protect the privacy and security of Americans in the digital age. The bipartisan caucus is comprised of twenty-five founding members, thirteen Republicans and twelve Democrats. The members will lead efforts in the House of Representatives to protect against warrantless searches and seizures, close privacy violating surveillance loopholes, and champion reform efforts to protect and restore Fourth Amendment rights. "Members of the House of Representatives from both parties are eager to debate and vote on privacy and surveillance issues that are far too often drafted in secret and jammed through the legislative process under tight deadlines, restrictive procedures, and little debate," said Lofgren. "From shutting the backdoor on warrantless spying to leading efforts to protect privacy, this Fourth Amendment Caucus gives members a new, nonpartisan forum for ideas, organization, and strategy as we fight to protect the Constitution and the American people." "As technology continues to evolve and improve, Congress must ensure that the Fourth Amendment rights of citizens are protected," said Poe. "Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." "Our laws regarding freedom, privacy and civil liberties have not kept up with the rapid expansion of technology in today's digital age," said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii). "I look forward to working with the bipartisan coalition united behind this caucus to protect and strengthen the Fourth Amendment rights granted to each and every American under our Constitution." "A caucus dedicated to defending Americans' Fourth Amendment-secured rights is needed now more than ever, and its formation illustrates the growing awareness among the American public and their representatives in Congress of the far-reaching implications of the surveillance state," said Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.). "In the face of difficult circumstances, some are quick to pursue extreme, unconstitutional measures; the Fourth Amendment Caucus will be a moderating influence that gives voice to countless Americans whose rights are violated by these ill-conceived policies." "Our founding fathers crafted the Fourth Amendment to withstand the test of time and protect our fundamental right to privacy, but they never could have anticipated today's world of smartphones and connected cars, said Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.). "With rapidly changing technology and evolving security threats come constant pressures to shift the line between our privacy and acceptable government access to our information. It is time that that Congress had a formal, bipartisan group to share ideas and strategize how to keep that line in check. I am honored to stand with my colleagues today to launch the Fourth Amendment Caucus to keep privacy concerns at the forefront of our debates." "Congress has passed, and continues to pass, dangerous legislation without regard for our Constitution," said Rep. Tom Massie (R-Ky.). "The Fourth Amendment Caucus presents a nonpartisan opportunity to discuss ways to protect our right to privacy." In addition to the announcement, an expert panel discussed Fourth Amendment Issues confronting Congress, moderated by the newly formed Fourth Amendment Advisory Committee. Panel members included Alvaro M. Bedoya, Executive Director of the Center on Privacy and Technology at Georgetown Law, Mike Godwin from the R Street Institute, Neema Singh Guliani, Legislative Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, and Sean Vitka, Director of the Fourth Amendment Advisory Committee. Founding Members of the Fourth Amendment Caucus: Ted Poe (R-TX) [Co-Chair]Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) [Co-Chair]Barbara Lee (D-CA)Beto O'Rourke (D-TX)Blake Farenthold (R-TX)Dan Kildee (D-MI)David Schweikert (R-AZ)Hank Johnson (D-GA)Jared Polis (D-CO)Jim Jordan (R-OH)John Lewis (D-GA)Justin Amash (R-MI)Louie Gohmert (R-TX)Michael Capuano (D-MA)Mo Brooks (R-AL)Paul Gosar (R-AZ)Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Scott Garrett (R-NJ)Scott Perry (R-PA)Suzan DelBene (D-WA)Ted Lieu (D-CA)Thomas Massie (R-KY)Tom McClintock (R-CA)Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI)Walter Jones (R-NC) ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member on the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court of the United States failed to reach a majority decision on the United States v. Texas case: "Today the Supreme Court issued a split decision that sets no precedent but leaves in place a lower court preliminary injunction blocking the President's immigration executive actions. "For some, this case is political. For others it is theoretical. But for millions of families across the country, this is personal. As Richard Land of the Southern Evangelical Seminary said, they "came to America when we had two signs on our border: Keep Out and Help Wanted." "Other immigration executive actions including relief for DREAMers and critically important new enforcement priorities, will continue to help immigrants and their families. "Our fight for justice and dignity for immigrants continues. This decision puts in stark contrast the choice for American voters this November. First, shall we choose a President and Congress that will bring about real, comprehensive immigration reform? And second, shall we choose a President and Senate that will fill the vacant Supreme Court seat so that justice can finally be achieved? "We must hold accountable those who stand in the way of justice for hard-working immigrant families."
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives is set to debate and vote on a renewed effort to restrict warrantless surveillance. The amendment, offered to the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Defense appropriations bill by Representatives Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), would prohibit warrantless backdoor searches of U.S. citizens' online communications without first obtaining a warrant. It would also prevent the government from coercing individuals and companies to insert software or hardware vulnerabilities, also known as "encryption backdoors," into products for surveillance purposes. The House of Representatives passed an identical amendment last year by an overwhelming 255-174 vote, and the year before by a veto-proof majority. "By requiring a warrant to conduct surveillance on Americans, this amendment strikes the appropriate balance between national security and civil liberty and is a much needed next step as Congress continues to rein in the surveillance state and reassert the Fourth Amendment," said Massie. "This amendment is the most meaningful step Congress can take to end warrantless bulk collection of US persons' communications data, as well as protect that data from malicious hackers and bad actors," said Lofgren. "The House has shown – by voting for the amendment by a large margin twice over the last two years – that it is committed to upholding the Constitution and protecting Americans from invasions of their privacy. With threats to America, we should not endanger the security of our digital environment by weakening encryption that protects everything from the power grid to air traffic control." The Massie-Lofgren Amendment has two components. The first prohibits warrantless searches of U.S. persons' online communications and data. Currently, under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, Americans' private data and communications – including emails, photos, and text messages – are incidentally collected by intelligence agencies. This allows access to a vast swath of communications and data without a warrant. Intelligence officials have confirmed to Congress that law enforcement agencies actively search the content of this intercepted data without probable cause, and have used evidence gathered to assist in criminal prosecutions. The second component prohibits government agencies from pressuring companies to build encryption "backdoors" in products or services for surveillance purposes. Industry leaders, technologists, and cryptologists agree these encryption backdoors put the data security of any individual using these services at risk. An identical amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Defense Appropriations Act last year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 255-174 vote, but was not included in the omnibus spending legislation passed last December. The House is expected to debate this amendment on Wednesday, June 15th, 2016, and vote on this amendment and the underlying bill on Thursday, June 16th, 2016. The amendment is supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups including Advocacy for Principled Action in Government, American Civil Liberties Union, Bill of Rights Defense Committee/Defending Dissent Foundation, Campaign for Liberty, Center for Democracy & Technology, Constitutional Alliance, Demand Progress, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Fight for the Future, Free the People, FreedomWorks, National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, New America's Open Technology Institute, Niskanen Center, R Street Institute, Restore The Fourth, The Sunlight Foundation, and X-Lab. Other co-sponsors include U.S. Reps. Poe (R-Texas), Amash (R-Mich.), DelBene (D-Wash.), Farenthold (R-Texas), Lieu (D-Calif.), Nadler (D-N.Y.), Pocan (D-Wis.), Conyers (D-Mich.), Jordan (R-Ohio), Butterfield (D-N.C.), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Labrador (R-ID), Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Issa (R-Calif.), and Gosar (R-Ariz.). # # #
05.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, in a bipartisan letter to President Obama, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and members of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam raised their concerns regarding serious health, environmental, and human rights issues in recent weeks. The letter addresses an ongoing environmental disaster "involving millions of dead fish washing ashore beginning in early April along the coastline […] devastating the economy in coastal cities and presenting a health hazard for the people of Vietnam." The Members decry a sluggish and violent response by the Vietnamese Government, citing reports of government officials dispersing peaceful demonstrators "with tear gas, beatings, and mass detentions." Such a reaction casts doubt on the Vietnamese Government's willingness or ability to comply with the terms of the Trans-Pacific Partnership: "The government's delayed reaction to a calamity of this magnitude does not bode well for the country's intent to comply with its obligations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). And, more than a month after the disaster was first reported, the government has yet to release information about a cause." The letter goes on to urge President Obama to raise these critical issues with the Vietnamese Government during his visit to the country, as well as call for the immediate and unconditional release of "more than 100 prisoners of conscience being detained by the government for exercising their right of expression or practicing their religion." A pdf version of the full letter can be found here. # # #
05.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – California Democrats, led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), issued the following statement after House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy forced Republican Members on Thursday to change their votes to reverse adoption of a measure to prevent federal contractors from discriminating against LGBT individuals: California Congressional Delegation Chair Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19): "In the midst of a chaotic and shocking display of intolerance by my Republican colleagues, I was appalled to see fellow Californian, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, personally pressuring Republicans on the House floor into changing their votes to permit discrimination against LGBT individuals. Four California Republicans – Reps. Denham, Valadao, Walters, and Issa – obeyed Mr. McCarthy and switched their vote. "Californians are better than this. Californians do not abide bigotry, hate, and intolerance. And Californians do not send Members of Congress to Washington so that they can browbeat colleagues into supporting prejudice and discrimination. On the contrary, many public and private entities across California have made their voices heard by pulling business from States and localities – like North Carolina – which permit or encourage discrimination. It's important for Californians to know the Republican Majority Leader in the House played the key role in enacting discrimination against the LGBT community - and that four California Republicans did what they were told and switched their votes." Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-34): "Equality for all prevailed on the House floor yesterday…until House Republicans twisted arms." Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17): "My Republican colleagues should be ashamed, particularly those from California who chose fear and discrimination over the open, accepting nature of our state. Taking a stand against discrimination in the workplace is something that I have been proud to do during my time in Congress. I would encourage all of my colleagues to have the same pride in protecting all Americans from discrimination. Unfortunately, rather than supporting the rights we all deserve, several Representatives from our state were convinced, by Leader McCarthy's and his underlings, to change their vote away from protecting LGBTQ Americans who simply want to work for companies that support our brave military. Endorsing that kind of discrimination is unacceptable to me. Changing your vote to let it happen is even worse." Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33): "The rejection of Mr. Maloney's amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act was nothing short of disgraceful. When the voting time expired, the amendment was slated to pass. However, Speaker Ryan chose to disregard his previous promises of regular order and held the vote open so that he could convince some in his party to change their affirmative votes. It's shameful that some would go to such great lengths to attack the LGBT community." Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31): "Yesterday, a majority of House Republicans voted to allow discrimination against LGBT Americans. They sacrificed their morals and responsibility to uphold the Constitution in favor of playing party politics. There is no justification for their cowardly actions -- equality is not something that should be up for debate in this country." # # #
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, reacting to a Reuters news story that the Obama Administration will launch a new round of immigration raids targeting Central American women and children, Representatives Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a joint statement: "We believe deportation targets should be felons, not families. We have inquired both with the White House and the Department of Homeland Security to get more information on the news reports about a new set of raids targeting mothers and children. If the news is accurate it is a very bad sign that the Obama Administration has not listened to us after months of urging them to adopt a refugee approach with other Western Hemisphere nations. To conduct these types of enforcement actions against women and children who have fled violence and who will face violence if they are returned, it is not just hypocritical—it is plain cruel. "Our neighbors in the Northern Triangle countries of El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala are in a crisis of uncontrolled violence. Women and children from these countries are coming to our Southwest border in search of refuge. Essentially, no one is coming from Nicaragua, Belize and other countries in the region. This shows that it is push factors – the violence in the Northern Triangle – and not the pull factors from the U.S. that are leading to the increased levels of migration. "The people targeted for raids and deportation are most likely to be the ones who never had access to a lawyer or legitimate due-process for their asylum claims. If the raids conducted earlier this year exposed anything at all, it was that our immigration system is incredibly flawed when it comes to asylum. House Democrats are united in strong opposition to these raids with almost all of us (146) signing a letter calling for the Administration to end ICE raids this past January." # # #
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – In a letter to House Republican leadership released today, U.S. Representatives Bill Foster (D-Ill.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) led more than 90 House Democrats in calling for an end to the Republican Select Panel to Investigate Planned Parenthood, highlighting the most recent partisan attack on scientists and researchers: "We write to you as members of Congress who are deeply concerned with the way the Select Panel is conducting itself, specifically in its recent attempts to investigate how researchers acquire fetal tissue," the letter reads. "Equally concerning are the investigations into scientists doing research that uses fetal tissue. This misuse of subpoena power is clearly aimed at not only stopping the progress of crucial medical research, but personally intimidating the scientists who are engaged in this life-saving work." "As a scientist, I am appalled by the Select Panel's attacks on medical research that could lead to cures for many diseases," said Foster. "This Panel has served as nothing more than a vehicle for false attacks on Planned Parenthood. It's time Republican leadership stops wasting taxpayer money on this political witch hunt." "It's increasingly clear this committee is pushing to intimidate scientists and researchers," said Lofgren. "This is reckless. These are the very researchers dedicated to finding life-saving medical cures for crippling diseases. "Wild rhetoric and unfounded accusations leveled by anti-abortion activists like the so-called ‘Center for Medical Progress' – and encouraged by this committee – has already inspired violence. Using the subpoena powers of the United States Congress to intimidate and potentially endanger scientists, including medical and graduate students, is not only a tremendous misuse of resources, it's incredibly irresponsible." # # #
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after attending the Supreme Court oral argument in the U.S. v Texas case over President Obama's November 2014 executive actions expanding Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and establishing the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA): "I attended the Supreme Court oral argument today in U.S. v Texas, a case which will decide the fate of millions of immigrant families in communities all across the nation. "I left feeling hopeful that the Court will find President Obama's executive immigration actions legal and a common-sense exercise of executive discretion. They are strongly rooted in precedent and statutory constitutional authority. Presidents from both parties, including Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, the Congress, and the Supreme Court as recently as 2012 utilized this well-established authority. "The justices asked many questions today exposing the flawed argument for legal standing under which Texas brought this case. Today – more than ever – it was apparent this case is based on partisan politics, not sound legal reasoning. "Our cause is just, the laws of the nation are on our side. I believe that the Supreme Court will reach the right decision and be on the right side of history." # # #
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today during markup in opposition to H.R. 4731, a Republican bill to attack refugees and the programs that serve them: "This markup falls during a week that will end with the Republicans passing a partisan resolution condemning executive actions meant to bring some sense of sanity to our broken immigration system. And it comes amidst a Presidential nomination season rife with vile anti-immigrant rhetoric. "The Republican proposal we are considering today is more of the same. It is a fundamental attack on refugees and the programs that serve them. It is anti-American, isolationist, and appears to be driven by xenophobia. "This bill does nothing to repair our broken immigration system. It does not enhance security or address any current problem in our refugee programs. It is based on the faulty premise that refugees pose a danger, and therefore need to be under continual surveillance. It fails to recognize that refugees are fleeing persecution; they are victims to whom we have an obligation morally and legally to provide protection and welcome into our communities. "We are in a worldwide refugee crisis, the likes of which we haven't seen since the end of World War II. Yet, this bill reduces the number of refugee admissions by nearly one third of FY 2016 levels. It strips the President of his ability to set, in consultation with Congress, the annual refugee target admissions level. And when it does that, it severely hampers the ability of the United States to respond to international crises. "Since the 1970s, the America has accepted millions of refugees. Under President Reagan in the 1980s, the U.S. resettled hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees, at times taking in more than 10,000 per month. In the 1990s, we accepted hundreds of thousands of political refugees from the former Soviet Union. Refugees from Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa, and around the world have become enormous contributors to the U.S. economy and part of the fabric of our country, our society, and my district. "The Executive authority to set the refugee ceiling was proposed and signed into law as part of the Refugee Act of 1980. I think we can all agree that Congress is not the most nimble decision-making body. But this bill would establish a relatively low refugee level and vest Congress with the sole authority to lift the refugee ceiling, with no real exception for emergencies. "At this moment of great need, I proposed that we resettle 200,000 refugees in 2016. While I recognize that that's an ambitious goal, the point is we should be doing more and not less. The level this bill sets is miserly and sends a dangerous message to the rest of the world, relinquishing our historic leadership in refugee protection. "The bill would have us prioritize religious minorities for refugee resettlement as a matter of law. That's a radical departure from established refugee law that provides for protection from persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. This bill lifts one of those grounds—religion—above all others. In doing so, we would de-prioritize Iraqi and Afghanis who supported U.S. Armed Forces. A woman fleeing sex enslavement by Boko Haram or female genital mutilation would likely be passed over. A political dissident from North Korea would find no refuge in America because he is not a religious minority. "Even more alarming, this provision is reminiscent of prior proposals effectively prioritizing Christian refugees. It appears to be crafted to exclude Muslims from Middle Eastern countries. "Another related provision allows any action by governors and local legislatures to deny refugee placement in their communities – a restriction that applies to no other group of immigrants. This provision sends the message that refugees are undesirable and unwelcome in our communities. The desire to "keep out" refugees is not rooted in anything other than xenophobia, which is the kind of base emotion and rhetoric consistent of the frontrunner of the Trump Republican party. "Perhaps most perniciously, this bill would essentially require refugees to re-apply years after having established that they suffered persecution. The process proposed in the bill would make refugees re-tell their stories, perhaps five years after their first interview. And if they failed to re-establish their eligibility for any reason, they'd be forced to return to the country where they were tortured or fear persecution. "There's no justification advanced for this new requirement, which would re-traumatize those who have already proven themselves to be refugees. And this is after refugees are subject to 18-24 months of the most thorough screening any traveler to America undergoes before ever setting foot on U.S. soil. This is after the bill calls for refuges to be held in temporary status for an extended period of time. The bill prolongs the period of instability for refugees and delays them from starting their lives anew. "Just over 75 years ago, a ship called the St. Louis, carrying nearly a thousand Jews fleeing Nazi Germany, sailed so close to the United States that passengers could see the lights of Miami. But rather than welcome these refugees, America turned them away. Over 250 of these Jewish refugees perished, killed by Nazi's when they were forcibly returned to Europe. "Making sure that such a tragedy never happens again has become the bedrock of U.S. refugee and asylum law and policy. But this bill upends this foundational principle and endangers refugees all over the world. "I urge my colleagues to join me in opposition to the bill. I thank the Chairman and yield back the balance of my time." # # #
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, 54 House Democrats, led by U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), introduced new legislation to protect children and other vulnerable groups in immigration proceedings by ensuring access to counsel, legal orientation programs, and case management services. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act ensures due process for children and vulnerable individuals, and offers an alternative to ICE raids that risk sending individuals to dangerous countries where they face threats of violence, abuse, or even death. The members were joined by U.S. Representatives John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), Alma Adams (D-N.C.), and Judy Chu (D-Calif.) at a press conference this morning to announce the new legislation (video in link). Under current law, there is no right to appointed counsel in immigration removal proceedings, even if the respondent is a child. Statistics show the overwhelming majority of children without attorneys are ordered deported while children with attorneys are five times more likely to be granted protection. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act: Requires the government to appoint counsel to children, and vulnerable individuals, including those with disabilities and victims of abuse, torture, or violence. Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that legal orientation programs are available to all detained immigrants. Creates a case management pilot project to increase court appearance rates. Requires DHS to submit reports to Congress on the number of individuals identified in the Act who were represented by counsel and the number of individuals who received legal orientation presentations. # # #
02.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement regarding a federal judge's order for Apple to disable encryption on the iPhone of San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook: "The order that Apple create a new operating system with a back door, using the 18th Century ‘All Writs Act,' is an astonishing overreach of authority by the Federal government. "Apple, as do other technology companies, complies with lawful orders and warrants. But they are unable to deliver to the government what they do not have – in this case, a key to break into their operating system in the manner the FBI desires. It is astonishing that a court would consider it lawful to order a private American company be commandeered for the creation of a new operating system in response. "The issue of mandating back doors in encryption has been a topic of vigorous discussion in the Congress. The emerging consensus has been that creating back doors for the use of law enforcement, important as law enforcement is, would endanger Americans by generally weakening security. These weaknesses will inevitably be exploited by criminal hackers or foreign opponents. That a single magistrate should substitute her judgment for that of the duly elected President and Congress – that was already thoroughly engaged in the subject – is wrong as a matter of policy and of law. "Finally, should this order not be overturned, technology companies will have no choice but to further deploy robust encryption that would prevent their engineers from creating any system that would effectively open up previously deployed security measures. "I urge the judicial branch to swiftly overturn this misguided ruling and further urge the Director of the FBI to refrain from seeking public policy decisions from the courts that are more properly decided by the Legislative branch of government." # # #
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley) today submitted a regulatory comment on the notice of proposed rulemaking affecting high-skilled nonimmigrant workers, a centerpiece of the President's executive actions on employment-based immigration. "Employment-based immigration programs, like so much of our immigration system, are broken. They are plagued by fundamental problems that only Congress can fix. Arbitrary, outdated visa quotas have trapped thousands of high-skilled immigrants – many of whom are at the forefront of business innovation and entrepreneurship – in immigration limbo for years or even decades. While Congress must act, the Administration should use this opportunity to restore integrity to labor market protections and support both U.S. and foreign born workers in the process. "This proposed regulation includes several smart changes in accordance with current law to bring some measure of relief, flexibility, and clarity to high-skilled workers and their employers. However, we are disappointed this rule fails to grant employment authorization to nonimmigrant workers unless they meet an undefined, but undisputedly high, standard of ‘compelling circumstances.' Taking this step would free foreign high-skilled workers from being unnecessarily tethered to one employer and prevent wage suppression for foreign and American workers. Granting these high-skilled workers employment-authorization will allow them to take positions in the education sector, not-for-profits, or even start new businesses that create jobs for Americans. "Expanding employment authorization is at the heart of the President's November 2014 directive requesting regulatory changes to help employment-based immigrants. The changes we recommend in this regulatory comment will better achieve that goal, grow our economy, and enrich our society." The full comment can be viewed here. ###
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court announced it will review the Texas-led challenge (U.S. V. Texas, et al.) to the President's executive immigration actions --Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) and expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): "We are very pleased that the Supreme Court has agreed to hear this case. We are confident the Court will see through the dubious legal and procedural arguments by lower courts and find the President's actions fully comport with U.S. immigration law and the Constitution. Permitting these programs to move forward will provide an important measure of certainty for millions of Americans and their immigrant families. "DAPA and expanded DACA are common-sense, lawful exercises of executive discretion, just like actions taken by prior presidents of both parties for decades, including Presidents Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and George W. Bush. "We are optimistic that the Supreme Court will issue its decision upholding these actions before the current term ends in June. Hard working immigrant families have waited long enough for stability and the opportunity to come out of the shadows. Today's Supreme Court moved us one step closer to the relief they so desperately need." Background: DAPA would allow certain immigrant parents of U.S. citizens and permanent residents to register with the government, undergo a background check, and work without fear of deportation. Expanded DACA provides the same protections to those who were brought to the United States as children and are Americans in every way but on paper. Rep. Lofgren led 184 members of the House of Representatives and 34 Senators on an amicus brief in support of the Supreme Court granting review citing that "the significance of this to Congress's ability to ensure rational, effective, and efficient enforcement of federal law by executive agencies cannot be overstated." ###
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) issued the following statement regarding refugee screening and resettlement for El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala: "The Administration's recently announced recognition that many Central Americans qualify as refugees under international law is an important and constructive step towards a comprehensive regional refugee solution to address violence in the Central American region. "Our partnership with UNHCR and other non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee protection will help provide critical guidance regarding best practices for refugee care and management. We are cautiously optimistic that the use of third-country temporary processing centers will provide protection for those who are unable to remain in their home country during the refugee processing period. "However, we do not believe that this Central American refugee resettlement program should be used as justification to deny or deter refugees from seeking asylum protection under our immigration laws here in the United States. On Tuesday, 146 House Democrats signed a letter urging the President to immediately suspend deportation raids targeting Central American refugee mothers and children. We are concerned that many of these families did not receive adequate due process and some may have already been deported to countries where they will face persecution, torture or death. We do not believe that these deportation and deterrent tactics will dissuade desperate mothers and children from fleeing for their lives. "The U.S. must continue to be a beacon of safety and refuge for those seeking protection from persecution. This new Central American refugee program should be an expansion of our efforts to provide refuge – not a substitute for our existing asylum process." # # #
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced that Sameena Usman, of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) San Francisco Bay Area Office, will attend the President Obama's final State of the Union Address as her invited guest. "I was delighted that Sameena Usman accepted my invitation," said Lofgren. "Recently, I have heard far too much ugly and un-American rhetoric directed towards Muslim-Americans. I felt this was an important opportunity to highlight an extraordinary individual who my staff and I work with often, and who advocates tirelessly for civil rights and equal treatment under the law – not just for Muslim-Americans, but for all Americans." Ms. Usman is the Government Relations Coordinator for Council on American-Islamic Relations San Francisco Bay Area Office. Lofgren joins roughly a dozen House Democrats by inviting a Muslim-American as a guest to the State of the Union address. # # #
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) released a letter to President Obama signed by 146 Democrats calling for a suspension of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) home raids that have targeted Central American families and children. The letter, which can be read here, was signed by 146 Democratic Members of Congress. Reps. Lofgren, Roybal-Allard and Gutiérrez spoke about the letter at a press conference this afternoon (audio link), where they were joined by House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05) and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09). The full letter text is below: January 12, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20502 Dear Mr. President: We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. The DHS operation has generated widespread fear and panic in immigrant communities and has far-reaching impacts beyond the alleged targets for removal. The operation raises numerous due process concerns including meaningful access to legal counsel for mothers and children after apprehension and DHS officers reportedly using deceptive tactics to gain entrance into private residences. For these reasons and others, we believe that this operation should be immediately suspended until we can ensure no mother or child will be sent back to a country where they would face persecution, torture or death. Globally, there are currently more refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons – an estimated 60 million – than at any time since World War II. You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. We commend you for that. However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children. The brutality of violence in Central America is undeniable, and yet this Administration has failed to provide a comprehensive refugee solution for those seeking international refugee protection. According to data shared by DHS, 85% of Central American families in detention have established threshold eligibility for refugee protection. Rather than preserving our commitment to refugee protection, your Administration continues to pursue policies that treat Central American refugees as an immigration enforcement matter. Thus far, your Administration has responded to the Central American refugee crisis with an emphasis on deterrence rather than the need for a regional refugee solution. Your Administration has used family detention, Spanish language communication campaigns in Central America urging people not to come to the United States, and financial assistance to Mexico to deter, arrest, and return those fleeing violence. This strategy has proven to be ineffective, as mothers and children continue to arrive at our Southwest border seeking refugee protection. Desperate Central American mothers and children will continue to flee to the United States and seek protection, regardless of the deterrent actions taken by this Administration. The recent operation to apprehend and remove families – several of whom reported inadequate legal representation – is the latest failure in this enforcement strategy. The fact that several of these families were subsequently granted emergency stays of removal indicates that the system has failed these refugees, notwithstanding final administrative removal orders. A final administrative removal order does not necessarily mean that these mothers and children do not have legitimate claims for refugee protection. We are gravely concerned that DHS may have already removed mothers and children from the United States and returned them to violent and dangerous situations in their home countries. The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis. This solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies. It is critical that this approach include cooperation with other countries in the Western Hemisphere. The violence in the Northern Triangle of Central America and the resulting refugee flow affects our entire region, and the United States' solution should include a regional refugee resettlement program as well as increased capacity building of asylum systems in neighboring countries. This comprehensive approach should also include collaboration with non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee protection such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Organizations such as UNHCR can assist the United States and our regional partners in screening refugees and can provide critical guidance regarding the best practices for refugee care and management. The goal of this comprehensive refugee approach should be to ensure that Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, are able to live free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution. It is time to start working towards a solution that provides a practical and humane response to the mothers and children from Central America fleeing for their lives and seeking safety and protection. Failure to provide this comprehensive solution will continue to lead to disorder at our border and will further a sense of unease across the United States. We urge you to immediately halt the current enforcement actions towards Central American mothers and children and take steps to engage in a comprehensive effort with our hemispheric partners to address this regional refugee crisis in an appropriate humanitarian manner. ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after voting against the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act: "I was unable to vote for the Omnibus spending bill today because it included an extraneous provision purported to facilitate cybersecurity information sharing that – in effect – will function as a surveillance tool. "Congress has debated cybersecurity for the past year. I voted for a bill passed by the House that addressed cybersecurity while also protecting the private digital information of Americans. This bill received substantially more support than any other cybersecurity bill considered by either chamber. "Information sharing requires measures to protect Americans' privacy. It should also be debated in regular order. But this so-called "cybersecurity legislation" was inserted into a must-pass Omnibus at the 11th hour, without debate. The protective measures that such a bill should have – including those I believe the Constitution requires – were removed. While the Omnibus had both pros and cons, my obligation to protect constitutional rights isn't negotiable. I made clear to House Leadership and the White House that I could not support the Omnibus with this cyber surveillance measure included. I have enclosed several letters crafted in the last two days outlining my concerns related to the bill." # # #
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) introduced the Wireless Tax Fairness Act, a bipartisan, consumer-friendly bill to place a 5-year moratorium on new taxes and fees for wireless services. On average, wireless customers pay nearly 18% in taxes and fees, largely imposed on state and municipal levels. These wireless taxes effect a growing number of consumers and fall disproportionately on younger, lower-income, and working Americans who tend to rely more exclusively on wireless devices for telephone and Internet access and therefore pay a greater percentage of their income in wireless taxes. With wireless broadband access rapidly becoming a key platform for innovation, the Wireless Tax Fairness Act will help foster greater access and investment in this key market by halting discriminatory and increasingly onerous tax treatment. "Wireless connectivity is one of the simplest and easiest routes to the Internet, but rather than encouraging wireless growth, we've burdened it with taxes," said Lofgren. "It's time to hit the pause button on any further discriminatory taxes. This will help boost job growth and innovation, and allow customers to choose wireless services based on merit and need." "Access to wireless networks represents a key component of millions of Americans' livelihoods, providing the efficient communications capabilities -- whether phone, broadband internet, or otherwise -- necessary to run a successful business," said Franks. "Exorbitant taxes on wireless customers are discriminatory, adding costly impediments to the success of so many American businesses and affecting low-income and senior Americans who frequently rely on wireless service as their sole means of telephone and internet access." The nearly 18% in taxes and fees wireless customers pay today is more than twice the 7.5% average rate on goods and services. In many localities, this cumulative tax burden is even higher. For example, the wireless tax rates are as high as: 36% in Chicago 29.9% in Baltimore 26% in Omaha 22.4% in Tallahassee 26.9% in New York City The Wireless Tax Fairness Act would impose a temporary, five-year freeze on new taxes levied solely on wireless services. The legislation does not reduce or remove any existing revenue from state or local governments, it simply pauses taxes and fees at the current rate. It does not prohibit additional taxes on wireless access provided that the same tax rate is applied to other goods and services. The legislation was introduced with 49 bipartisan cosponsors. Similar legislation introduced in previous Congresses has enjoyed support from a majority of House members, and was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in November, 2011. Full bill text of the Wireless Tax Fairness Act can be found here. # # #
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) released a letter expressing her concern with news reports indicating an Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agent enlisted local law enforcement to pressure a New Hampshire public library into disabling its Tor relay. The letter, addressed to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, notes that the Tor network is used by journalists, activists, dissidents, intelligence sources, and other privacy concerned individuals to keep their web browsing private, and the network receives significant funding through government grants. The letter reads: "While the Kilton Public Library's board ultimately voted to restore their Tor relay, I am no less disturbed by the possibility that DSH employers are pressuring or persuading public and private entities to discontinue or degrade services that protect the privacy and anonymity of U.S. citizens." Lofgren asked DHS to provide clarification with respect to the incident, including whether interference in the library's offering of Tor was the result of a DHS policy, or the result of an agent acting independently without authorization. A full copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- What began as a constituent letter addressed to U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) expressing disappointment over the inability of federal facilities to provide electric vehicle charging stations, became law on Friday as President Obama signed a multi-year surface transportation bill. A provision inserted into the transportation legislation by Lofgren will now allow federal agencies to construct power charging stations for employees with electric vehicles at no cost to the taxpayer. Last year, a constituent penned a letter to Lofgren, alerting her of the issue and asking her support in finding a solution. "I am writing to ask for your help in either changing a law or clarifying it, and I'm not even sure which law it is," the letter begins. It goes on to read: "I was surprised and dismayed to find that my workplace (NASA – Ames Research Center) does not have charging stations because it has been determined that it is illegal for Federal facilities to provide these stations for the public or the people that work at them." The letter goes on to ask that Lofgren "change whatever law prevents the Government from providing these charging stations." In her response, Lofgren wrote: "I, too, was shocked that there was a provision blocking federal employers from providing charging facilities for their employees while at work," and goes on to explain "that it was due to a particular interpretation of the law regarding how agencies are allowed to spend money. I have since drafted a bill to allow federal agencies to provide charging facilities for their employees." The Electric Vehicle Charging Offers Modern Utility Terminals for Employees, or EV-COMUTE Act was introduced in September this year by Lofgren and original cosponsors Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) and Rob Woodall (R-Ga.). After weeks of negotiations, Lofgren and Massie introduced and unanimously passed a floor amendment to the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act to include language from EV-COMUTE in the bipartisan surface transportation bill. Lofgren secured the language in final passage after being appointed as a conferee to negotiate differences between House and Senate versions of the bill. On Friday afternoon, the bill was signed into law by President Obama. As a result, consumers with electric cars will soon be able to use workplace charging stations for a fee that also offsets the costs for the construction and maintenance of the stations. "I first learned of this issue after my constituent brought it to my attention in a letter last year," said Lofgren. "Congress voting to adopt this commonsense policy serves as a powerful reminder of the role citizens play in generating new ideas and legislation." # # #
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose will receive $100,000 in federal funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF) in a new grant announced by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today. The grant, administered by the NSF, will support a new project focused on the topic of cybersecurity for middle school students at museums. The project is a joint effort between the University of Buffalo and the Tech Museum, and will involve the design, development, assessment and refinement of interactive and hands-on experiences in a museum setting, with follow-up workshops targeting middle school students. "I'm pleased The Tech is helping to lead the way in cybersecurity education," said Lofgren. "Building a culture of strong cybersecurity is of utmost importance in today's digital economy. The federal government is right to support programs that instill strong cybersecurity practices early on in childhood education." Given the widespread use of the Internet, cybercrime is on the rise and cybersecurity is a much needed component in any STEM curriculum. The project will span multiple disciplines ranging from computer science and information systems to forensics and law, and the participants will pay particular attention to a conceptual understanding of cybersecurity. # # #
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) and U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D- CA19) were joined by 216 members of Congress in filing an amicus brief in support of the Supreme Court granting review of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision in United States v. Texas, et al,. The amicus makes the case that President's November 2014 actions to allow certain immigrant parents of U.S. citizens and permanent residents to come out of the shadows, register with the government, and work without fear of deportation and expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program fully comports with immigration law and the U.S. Constitution. The brief provides an authoritative account of the legislative history and intent which confirm the executive actions taken by the Obama Administration are within the broad discretion statutorily granted to the Executive by Congress to determine how best to enforce our nation's immigration laws. The members outline the imperative of implementing the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) and expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programs, and urge the Supreme Court to reverse the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision and vacate the preliminary injunction blocking the new programs from being implemented. The members "regard the actions of the Executive invalidated by the Court of Appeals as appropriate measures to focus the Department of Homeland Security's limited enforcement resources on the removal of those unauthorized immigrants who pose threats to public safety." "The impact of the court of appeals' decision on the millions of individuals who might be eligible for deferred action under the Secretary's initiative—and their U.S. citizen and lawful permanent resident (LPR) children—would be reason enough for this Court to grant review of that decision." The members wrote. "Congress understands that the Executive is often better positioned to determine how to adjust quickly to changing circumstances in a complex field, particularly one, like immigration, involving law-enforcement and national-security concerns. Given their institutional responsibility, amici would not, of course, support Executive efforts to exercise unfettered discretion at odds with duly enacted federal statutes. But where Congress has chosen to vest in the Executive discretionary authority to determine how a law should be enforced, and the Executive has acted pursuant to that authority, amici have a strong interest in ensuring that federal courts honor Congress's deliberate choice by sustaining the Executive's action…The significance of this case to Congress's ability to ensure rational, effective, and efficient enforcement of federal law by executive agencies cannot be overstated." The amicus brief was signed by a total of 34 Senators, and 184 members of the House of Representatives. Download a copy of the amicus brief here. # # #
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) issued the following statement today regarding the December 2nd shooting in San Bernardino, California: "My thoughts and condolences for the victims and their families in San Bernardino. Gun violence and mass shootings - irrespective of motive - have become heartbreakingly common in America. Congress must come together to craft constructive change to prevent dangerous individuals from harming others in shootings." ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As high-stake negotiations to reach a new global climate accord unfold in Paris, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D- Calif.) and Doris Matsui (D- Calif.) introduced legislation today to spur American investment in clean energy projects, create jobs, support the rapidly growing field of clean energy technologies needed to combat climate change, and help the U.S. achieve energy security. Modeled after the enormously successful victory bonds of World War II, the Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act of 2015 allows Americans to participate in the clean energy economy through safe investments that improve public health, boost economic growth, and protect the environment. "When Americans invest in a clean energy future for our country, we all benefit," said Lofgren. "Individual citizens helped turn the tide in World War II with Victory Bonds, and we can do that again in the battle against climate change by allowing any American to invest in innovative technologies that yield a profitable return for the investor and to society." "Americans have always had a spirit of innovation," said Matsui. "Just as citizens during World War II joined together for the greater good through the purchase of Victory Bonds, so too can current and future generations through Clean Energy Victory Bonds. The Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act will allow Americans to invest in renewable and energy efficient technologies that will strengthen our economy, save energy, and provide for a brighter future for this country. The United States' leadership on clean energy is particularly critical as international climate change negotiations continue in Paris." The Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act directs the Treasury Department to issue small-denomination treasury bonds expressly designated to fund and extend existing tax incentives and credits that encourage renewable energy growth and energy efficient technologies. The bonds would be available for purchase by individuals in denominations as low as $25. The proceeds would provide: up to $50 billion in direct investment leveraged in proven incentives to accelerate the development of clean energy and clean energy technologies; new jobs that put Americans to work developing clean energy technologies and building clean energy projects across the country; improvements to national security with increased investment into the U.S. domestic clean energy industry, reducing U.S. dependence on foreign sources of energy; a safe opportunity for Americans to invest in the future of their country and the health and well-being of the environment. Click here for a summary of the Clean Energy Victory Bond Act. The text of the legislation can be found by clicking here. # # #
11.19.2015	U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement on the House floor today in opposition to the Republican legislation to halt the U.S. Refugee program:"Thank you Mr. Speaker – "All of us watched with horror the events in Paris. November 13th was France's September 11th, and all of us have paused to consider what further should be done to make sure America is safe, because our first obligation as Members of Congress is to make sure America is safe. "And so as we watch the refugees from the Middle East pouring into Europe, concern has been expressed - and I think correctly - who are these people? And hidden among the many helpless victims, are there some that would pose a threat? "It's worth noting that our process for refugees is completely different. No one gets into the United States unless they have been completely vetted. This process starts with the UN referring only those people who are vulnerable – who have been tortured, who have been victimized, and who are helpless women and children – for screening by us. We have a process that includes soliciting information from the DEA, from the intelligence agencies, from the FBI and the like, and all of those agencies have a veto – if there's a problem they veto the admission. "The process takes two years or more and a very small number of people actually are admitted. Of the two thousand or so Syrian refugees who've been admitted to the United States, the overwhelming majority are children or widows who have been victims of torture, who have seen their husbands beheaded. "The bill before us, as has been described by the speaker and the author would stop the refugee program – they call it a pause – they would stop it because it completely restructures this very elaborate system we have by putting the FBI as the lead agency; they'd have to hire agents and send them over. They describe it as a pause – we think it'd take several years to set it up. "Why is that a bad idea? ISIS is our enemy and we need to fight them and we need to defeat them. But we're fighting on two levels, one – military, but it's also a fight of values. America stands for freedom; we are the beacon of light, of democracy, of freedom in the world. Part of that value in America is allowing people who are escaping monsters like ISIS to be able to become Americans like us. We need to screen and make sure we are completely safe, but if we stop that program, we give ISIS a win. "Please defeat this bill."
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, introduced the No Guns for Terrorists Act of 2015 to prohibit the sale of firearms to individuals suspected of terrorism. "Many refugees seeking protection in the United States are persecuted religious minorities, victims of terrorism, orphans, and women and children," said Lofgren and Thompson. "They are required to undergo a rigorous screening process, including background checks, national security vetting, biometric identifiers, and interviews – a process which takes between 18-24 months on average. Here in Congress we may not agree on every aspect of how best to keep our nation safe from terrorist attack, but we should all agree that we can't allow terrorists to legally purchase firearms at will. If we are serious about protecting against acts of violence like what occurred in Paris, then this bill should be our first course of action." The legislation prohibits any person to sell or otherwise dispose of firearms or ammunition to any person known to have, or appropriately suspected to have engaged in conduct: constituting terrorism in preparation for terrorism in aid of terrorism; or that is otherwise unlawful and related to terrorism Full text of the bill can be found here and attached. ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, released the following statement: "For many Americans, the horrendous loss of life and scenes of chaos of the Paris terrorist attacks harkened back to our own experience in the wake of September 11th. Our top priority is and will always remain the safety of the American people. And it is in these times that the core values of our nation are tested. Welcoming refugees who are fleeing persecution and war is the humane – and American – thing to do. However, some in Congress intend to use this tragedy to shut down the U.S. refugee program, turning our backs on victims fleeing the horrors of ISIS and the Assad regime. "We must constantly re-evaluate and refine our refugee screening to find ways to strengthen the existing system and ensure that we are maintaining the most rigorous vetting system in the world. Refugees, and refugees from this region specifically, already undergo a far more rigorous screening process than anyone else seeking admission to this country, including background checks, national security vetting, biometric identifiers, and interviews. The process takes on average between 18 to 24 months, and longer in many cases, before a refugee steps foot on U.S. soil. The House Republican legislation would immediately shut down all refugee resettlement from Syria and Iraq – possibly for many years – and severely handicap future refugee resettlement around the world. "Our commitment to refugees and the security of the American people are not mutually exclusive. We believe that turning our backs on those escaping persecution, many of them religious minorities and victims of terrorism, runs counter to the proud and generous heritage of the United States – a country of immigrants – that has always helped those in need in the most trying times." # # #
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released a bipartisan letter today urging President Obama to convey serious concerns about the Vietnamese government's detention of human rights activists during the Association for Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit this week. The letter, signed by thirteen Members of Congress, cites "over 140 prisoners of conscience currently being held by the Vietnamese government for peacefully expressing their political views," and new legislation under consideration by the Vietnam National Assembly that "significantly restricts the right to freely practice one's religion in Vietnam" as examples of the Vietnamese government's "disregard for the basic rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Vietnam is a Party." The bipartisan Members of Congress call for President Obama to insist the Vietnamese government release all prisoners of conscience – including an attached list of 148 detainees –"immediately and unconditionally." This follows an additional letter Lofgren sent last week to Secretary of State John Kerry regarding the Vietnamese Government's beating of two lawyers and their subsequent detention – another example of the Government's abuse of power and denial of basic human rights. The full letter is attached. # # #
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – 16 House Democrats, led by Silicon Valley Representatives Zoe Lofgren and Mike Honda, are seeking answers to an administrative change that dramatically scaled back the number of immigrants eligible to apply for green cards. The letter, addressed to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secretary of State John Kerry, notes that the revision "has undermined the stability and predictability of our immigration system." The letter seeks specifics as to how many immigrants were affected by the changed filing dates. According to some estimates, the vast majority of immigrants who had been eligible to file for green cards were disqualified as a result of these changes. "If true," the authors write, "the revision would effectively reverse the progress made toward the Administration's goals to reform our visa system," a key aspect of President Obama's executive actions on immigration reform. In addition, the Members of Congress urged "regulatory changes that would benefit high-skilled workers waiting in the United States for immigrant visa numbers," including permitting the affected workers to remain in the country while waiting for their changed filing dates "without sacrificing job flexibility." "It is unconscionable for the Government – without explanation or recourse– to mislead these skilled immigrants and the companies that rely on them to succeed," said Lofgren. "The visa bulletin revision has pulled the rug out from under thousands of immigrants in Silicon Valley and across the country. I join Rep. Lofgren in urging the Department of Homeland Security to offer discretionary relief so that that these people can continue to work, live and raise their families in America. Our country was founded on the promise of a better life; of being free to pursue their goals and dreams. We cannot continue to roll back the clock on our immigration policies – we need to be moving forward with real, lasting comprehensive immigration reform. Immigrants go through a long process to realize their dream of citizenship, and they deserve to have a stable system that works for them instead of against them," said Honda. "The United States is made richer because of our diverse backgrounds, and I see proof of this every day in Silicon Valley. We need to reassure immigrants and future citizens that this mistake will never happen again, and that the U.S. government will work to restore their trust in our immigration system." The letter was signed by U.S. Reps. Lofgren (D-Calif.), Honda (D-Calif.), Chu (D-Calif.), Clark (D-Mass.), Cummings (D-Md.), Eshoo (D-Calif.), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Gutierrez (D-Ill.), Himes (D-Conn.), Hinojosa (D-Texas), Bernice-Johnson (D-Texas), McGovern (D-Mass.), Pallone (D-N.J.), Polis (D-Colo.), Price (D-N.C.), and Adams (D-N.C.). The full text of the letter is attached and below: October 29, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20451 Dear Secretary Johnson and Secretary Kerry: On November 20, 2014, Secretary Jeh Johnson directed U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to "continue and enhance its work with the Department of State to ensure that all immigrant visas authorized by Congress are issued to eligible individuals when there is sufficient demand for such visas," and to "improve the system for determining when immigrant visas are available to applicants during the fiscal year."[1] The very next day, President Obama directed that "administrative policies, practices, and systems use all of the immigrant visa numbers that the Congress provides for and intends to be issued, consistent with demand."[2] These announcements were made in recognition of the contributions high-skilled immigrants make to our economy and to support U.S. businesses and workers. When the Departments of State and Homeland security announced early September that the Visa Bulletin was being revised and that foreign nationals would now be able to file for adjustment of status earlier, we applauded those efforts.[3] Then on September 25, 2015, the Department of State issued a revised Visa Bulletin — one that dramatically scales back the number of immigrants eligible to apply for adjustment of status to lawful permanent residence.[4] As a result, thousands of individuals and businesses that had relied on the original Bulletin filing dates irrevocably lost thousands of dollars in legal fees and other expenses related to preparing their applications. Many have made life-changing decisions that cannot be undone.[5] We have heard estimates that the revised Bulletin would decrease the number of immigrants eligible for filing by 80% to 95% from the number projected to be eligible under the original Bulletin filing dates. If true, the revision would effectively reverse the progress made toward the Administration's goals to reform our visa system. Therefore, we request that you provide the estimated number of eligible applicants under the initial Visa Bulletin filing dates and the estimated number of eligible applicants under the revised Bulletin. To the extent possible, please provide a breakdown of these projections by preference category and country of chargeability. The Department of State should set Visa Bulletin filing dates to ensure that as many eligible applicants as possible may submit green card applications, consistent with the policy goals outlined by the President. To ameliorate the hardships caused by the Visa Bulletin revision, we strongly urge that the Department of Homeland Security implement regulatory changes that would benefit high-skilled workers waiting in the United States for immigrant visa numbers. Specifically, we are referring to 1) providing beneficiaries of an approved employment-based petition (Form I-140), and their derivative dependents, employment authorization; and 2) amending the regulations so that such petitions will remain valid in cases where the beneficiary has a new job that is in the same or similar classification as the job for which the petition was filed.[6] We believe these would be important and meaningful changes that are well within the agency's legal authority. They would permit adversely affected workers to stay in the country while waiting for the filing dates to advance to the dates announced in the initial Visa Bulletin, without sacrificing job flexibility.[7] They would not only help our country to retain valuable high-skilled workers but also better protect American workers, combat abuse, and strengthen the economy, which are the very things that the Secretary and the President intended when making the announcements to modernize our visa system almost one year ago. Additionally, USCIS should consider the Visa Bulletin revision "an extraordinary circumstance beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner" in the event a person is filing a late request to extend nonimmigrants status.[8] USCIS should also take into consideration the disruption to both businesses and personal lives that the revision has caused when deciding to grant parole for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit.[9] The revision to the Visa Bulletin has undermined the stability and predictability of our immigration system. Our current visa backlog and restrictions already create incentives for skilled foreign workers to leave the United States and take their skills to other countries that offer more competitive immigration programs. This is now exacerbated by a confounding and sudden change to the Visa Bulletin, which has caused the world to lose faith in our immigration process. We look forward to receiving the requested information as well as any plans your Departments may have in providing relief to those harmed by the revision and in restoring faith in our immigration process. Sincerely, U.S. Reps.: Lofgren Honda Pallone Polis Price Johnson Chu Clark Cummings Eshoo McGovern Gabbard Gutierrez Himes Hinojosa Adams # # # [1] Memorandum from Jeh Charles Johnson, Secretary of Homeland Security, to León Rodriguez, Director, USCIS, et al., Policies Supporting U.S. High-Skilled Businesses and Workers (Nov. 20, 2014). [2] Memorandum from Barack Obama to the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies, Modernizing and Streamlining the U.S. Immigrant Visa System for the 21st Century (Nov. 21, 2014 ). [3] Statement from Hon. Zoe Lofgren and Hon. Mike Honda, Lofgren & Honda Applaud New Rules to Ease Green Card Process (Sept. 10, 2015) available at https://lofgren.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=397988. [4] Department of State, Visa Bulletin For October 2015, (Rev'd Sept. 25, 2015). [5] See e.g. Class Action Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief, Mehta v. Kerry, et. al., (West. Dist. of Wash.; Sept. 28, 2015) (One plaintiff rejected a job offer; another plaintiff postponed having a child). [6] DHS Regulatory Agenda, Employment-Based Immigration Modernization, RIN: 1615-AC05, available at http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/eAgendaViewRule?pubId=201504&RIN=1615-AC05; see also Letter from Hon. Zoe Lofgren to USCIS (July 14, 2015). [7] Foreign and American workers are harmed by policies that unnecessarily tie foreign workers to a single employer for years on end. Suppressing job mobility for any population leads to depressed wages and worse working conditions for all. On the other hand, increased job mobility for foreign workers benefits the economy as a whole. See Dorning, Mike, Immigrant Wages to Get Boost From Job Mobility Under Obama Plan, Bloomberg (Nov. 22, 2014) at http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2014-11-22/immigrant-wages-to-get-boost-from-job-mobility-under-obama-plan. [8] 8 C.F.R. § 214.1(c)(4). [9] See 8 USC § 212(d)(5).
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Delegation Chair Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (D-Los Angeles), today wrote the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, urging timely and full renewal of the State's Medi-Cal waiver. The letter, signed by 37 members of the California Delegation, notes that the 2010 Bridge to Reform waiver "reduced the uninsured rate by more than 59 percent and increased Medi-Cal enrollment by 38 percent," resulting in an additional 3.5 million low-income Californians insured. Despite this progress, the letter stresses that the "high cost-of-living and high remaining uninsured levesl despite having implemented the Medicaid expansion" make it critical that California receive a full five-year waiver to "to continue providing high quality car to the Medi-Cal population and to the remaining uninsured." The current waiver is set to expire on October 31, 2015. The letter reinforces points numerous California Representatives have made in telephone calls to the CMS over the past several weeks. The full text of the letter is below and attached: October 29, 2015 Andy Slavitt Acting Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Slavitt, As members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, we write in strong support of the timely renewal of California's Medi-Cal Section 1115 waiver. This waiver provides critical funding for California's public health care system for five years. As you are well aware, California's 2010 "Bridge to Reform" waiver was crucial to the success of one of the earliest and largest adoption of the Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion. Since the implementation of the "Bridge to Reform" waiver, our state has reduced the uninsured rate by more than 50 percent and increased Medi-Cal enrollment by 38 percent. As a result, an additional 3.5 million low-income Californians now have health care coverage. By building on the previous waiver's success, California's current waiver proposal would continue to improve the health care delivery system, fund both a dental transformation incentive program and a "whole person care" pilot, and integrate health and social services more seamlessly. Additionally, we commend CMS and the State for agreeing to include an Advisory Committee responsible for assessing whether Medi-Cal and commercial plans are complying with California state law requirements that plans have adequate provider networks and consumer access to health care providers. We greatly appreciate CMS making a good faith effort to negotiate the waiver with the State of California and know that we share the goal of providing high quality care to our low-income populations. We also hope that you take into account California's unique challenges such as the high cost-of-living and high remaining uninsured levels despite having implemented the Medicaid expansion. In order to continue providing high quality care to the Medi-Cal population and to the remaining uninsured, we urge you to approve this waiver renewal for the full five years as soon as possible. As you know, the current waiver is set to expire on October 31, 2015. Again, thank you for your tireless effort to develop a waiver that contributes to the long-term sustainability of California's Medi-Cal program and the safety net. We look forward to partnering with you to ensure that California continues to successfully implement the Affordable Care Act. Sincerely, U.S. Reps. Lofgren Becerra Aguilar Waters Bera Brownley Capps Cárdenas Chu Costa Davis DeSaulnier Eshoo Farr Garamendi Hahn Honda Huffman Lee Lieu Lowenthal Matsui McNerney Napolitano Peters Roybal-Allard Ruiz Sanchez Sanchez Schiff Sherman Speier Swalwell Takano Thompson Torres Vargas # # #
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) led a bipartisan group of lawmakers in calling on the Department of Defense (DOD) to drop their opposition to veterans groups' use of military seals in Veterans Day parades and other patriotic or veterans-oriented events in a letter today. The letter, signed by 20 Members of Congress, notes that a number of veterans organizations, including the United Veterans Council of Santa Clara County, have received cease-and-desist letters from the Department of Defense alleging trademark infringement for their use of official military seals in veterans-related events, including Memorial and Veterans Day observances. "It is difficult to understand the legal basis, never mind the logic of the DOD threatening any non-profit veterans group with trademark liability for using official seals to honor our nation's veterans," reads the letter. "Honoring our nation's veterans should not require veterans organizations to seek a trademark license from DOD." The letter calls on the Department of Defense to "grant a one-time waiver to all non-profit veterans groups to use the official seals of the military branches in upcoming Veterans Day parades or other patriotic events for the remainder of 2015," while the department updates its licensing policy "to allow veterans groups to more easily use emblems and other military marks to honor their service." In addition to Lofgren, the letter was signed by U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Corinne Brown (D-Fla.), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Mark Amodei (R-Nev.), John Conyers, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, (D-Mich.), Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), Bob Brady (D-Pa.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Mike Honda (D-Calif.), Grace Napolitano (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Lois Capps (D-Calif.), Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.), John Garamendi (D-Calif.), and Dina Titus (D-Nev.). A pdf copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republicans rejected greater transparency provisions today during a House Administration Committee markup to adopt changes to the guidelines governing Member office spending. The Committee Republicans unanimously voted against an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) designed to make privately owned vehicle mileage reimbursements more accountable to taxpayers. The amendment was introduced to provide more transparency for taxpayers to see Member and staff reimbursements for the use of private vehicles while on official business. This issue was elevated in the wake of a federal investigation into former U.S. Rep. Aaron Schock's inflated mileage reimbursements. The amendment was rejected 6-3 on a party-line vote. "There is much merit in today's resolution, including important new measures to increase transparency and accountability, but there remains more work to do," said Lofgren. "It is unfortunate we could not come to an agreement to significantly increase transparency in mileage reporting, an area which has proven to be insufficient in preventing fraud and abuse at taxpayer expense. I am disappointed that my Republican colleagues unanimously stood in opposition to greater sunlight in government." Lofgren's amendment would require a Member's publicly available Statement of Disbursement to disclose information on a per-travel-date basis, including disclosures of where they traveled for official business meetings, limited to intersections or centers of zip codes. While not achieving the full disclosure that Lofgren initially sought, the amendment offered gives taxpayers more information than they currently have access to, and could help combat fraud and abuse of the private vehicle reimbursement program. In an effort to provide her Republican colleagues with a full range of options, Lofgren offered two additional proposals during pre-markup negotiations, one of which would have required significantly more robust reporting requirements, and another, smaller improvement over the status quo. Both proposals, in addition to today's amendment, were rejected by Committee Republicans. Background: Lofgren is the lead Democrat on a bipartisan review panel to identify opportunities for the Committee to provide enhanced education for each Member of the House. The Members began this review at the end of March 2015, following the resignation of former Rep. Aaron Schock (R- Ill.). Among other issues, Schock was investigated for inflating mileage reimbursements to cover payments on a personal vehicle. The full Committee on House Administration voted to adopt changes to the regulations governing Member Spending today. # # #
10.02.2015	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today on the passing of former Congressman Don Edwards: "After working for Congressman Don Edwards for nearly a decade, and having the honor to succeed him in Congress, I feel a profound sense of loss upon his passing. "Don spent his life in service to the state of California and to our country as a Member of Congress for 32 years. His contributions will live on for many generations through the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, through his stalwart defense of the Constitution, his profound dedication to civil rights, his tireless advocacy for the rights of women as the "Father of the Equal Rights Amendment," and his lifelong efforts for a peaceful world. He will be always be remembered for his exemplary service in Congress and love for the South bay."
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley) issued the following statement today in response to an updated version of the October Visa Bulletin issued by the State Department on September 25th. The updated bulletin dramatically scaled back the number of immigrants eligible to apply for green cards and adjust to lawful permanent resident status: "We are deeply disappointed and concerned by last Friday's revision to the October Visa Bulletin. This action has effectively reversed the progress made in reforming our visa system through President Obama's executive actions. As a result, thousands of individuals and businesses that had relied on the original October bulletin have irrevocably lost thousands of dollars in legal fees and other expenses related to preparing and planning for their applications. Many have made life-changing decisions that cannot be undone. "This revision seriously undermines the stability and predictability of our immigration system. In a time when this country has to compete harder than ever with the rest of the world for high-skilled workers, a confounding and sudden change such as this is unacceptable. "The Department of State should take steps to ensure mistakes of this magnitude do not happen again, and work with the Department of Homeland Security to provide discretionary relief to those affected. "Some applicants have already filed a class-action lawsuit challenging the agencies' decision. We commend and support their efforts, and in the event this administration is unable or unwilling to provide them with equitable relief, hope the courts will do so instead." # # #
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced more than $827,000 in federal funds for Downtown College Prep to ensure and expand the promise of graduation for local first-generation college students. The funds, administered by the United States Department of Education's Charter School Management Organizations Program, will be used by Downtown College Prep to admit nearly 1,400 additional underserved students in San Jose. These students are expected to outperform their peers in local district schools as measured by college readiness, matriculation, and graduation as well as in academic achievement on state assessments. "I'm pleased to announce significant federal funding to expand enrollment at Downtown College Prep," said Lofgren. "DCP has an established track record of successfully preparing first-generation and low-income students for college, and our community will benefit from more students having access to the education and services they provide." Downtown College Prep (DCP) was founded in 1999 with a mission to prepare first-generation students for college success. After opening its flagship high school in 2000, DCP has expanded to add two middle schools and a second high school. With this additional funding, DCP seeks to open two additional middle schools and substantially expand its two high schools, nearly doubling total enrollment. To date, DCP has graduated 12 classes, where 96% of students matriculate to college directly after high school. DCP students graduate college at a rate of 60% - a significant increase compared with the national average of 11% for low-income and first-generation students. # # #
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) announced $3 million in federal funding today for the San Jose State University Research Foundation. The federal grant, administered by the U.S. Education Department's "First in the World" grant program, is designed to support collaboration among multiple partners focused on college access and student data. At the SJSU Research Foundation, the funding will promote active learning strategies through the flipped classroom model in STEM gateway courses. "I'm delighted that San Jose State was selected to receive federal funds for their ambitious research," said Lofgren. "This investment can help educators and researchers explore new ways to boost retention and graduation rates, and more fully study the possibilities of innovative new teaching practices." The flipped classroom is a model of teaching which reverses the typical lecture and homework elements of a school day. Video lectures can be studied by students at home before class, while in-class time is dedicated to collaborative exercises, projects, or group discussions. The SJSU Research Foundation will evaluate the flipped classroom models at SJSU, California State University Los Angeles, and Cal Poly Pomona to measure core academic performances in retention and graduation, and examine facilitating a culture of transformative pedagogical change among STEM faculty at the three CSUs. # # #
09.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) and House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), issued the following joint statement in response to a small announced increase– from 75,000 to 85,000 – in the refugee admissions levels for the next fiscal year: "The Administration is right to take action to increase resettlement of the world's most vulnerable refugees. We hope to work with the Administration to do more. There are currently 12.2 million people in need of humanitarian assistance in Syria, 7.6 million internally displaced persons, and 4 million Syrian refugees in neighboring countries. They are fleeing a war waged by the brutal Syrian regime on one hand and the barbarism of ISIS on the other. For these refugees, safe haven in Europe, the United States, or other welcoming countries is their best and only hope. "In the 1980s, the United States resettled one million Vietnamese, at times taking in more than 10,000 per month. During the 1990s, we accepted hundreds of thousands of religious and political refugees from the former Soviet Union. Yet today, with more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II, the need for an historic response has never been greater. Our commitment to resettle only 10,000 Syrian refugees falls short when weighed against our nation's proud history protecting those fleeing violence and persecution. "The Administration cannot be alone in this effort. Congress must also act to support resettlement, and we should also encourage private funding to support resettlement efforts. Additionally, as Pope Francis has urged, now is the time for Churches, Parishes, and houses of worship across the country to volunteer and bring their resources to bear in helping global refugees. "Just over 75 years ago, a ship called the St. Louis, carrying nearly a thousand Jews fleeing Nazi Germany, sailed so close to the United States that passengers could see the city lights of Miami. But rather than welcome these refugees, the United States turned them away. Many later died in concentration camps. We should not repeat the mistake of rejecting those fleeing for their lives. The United States has long been a symbol of freedom and hope for the World's most vulnerable. In today's global refugee crisis, we must now act boldly to fulfill that promise." # # # Earlier this month, Conyers and Lofgren, along with more than 70 members of Congress, called on the United States to admit 200,000 global refugees, with 100,000 reserved for Syrian refugees.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) announced today that 89-year old homeless advocate and Morgan Hill resident Maria Skoczylas will attend Pope Francis's September 24th address to Congress as Lofgren's invited guest. Skoczylas, a former schoolteacher who sits on the board of directors for five local charitable organizations, has dedicated herself to community service and helping the homeless for nearly three decades. She credits Pope Francis as an inspiration for her continued community service, and in a letter to Lofgren earlier this year, wrote that "when Pope Francis speaks to Congress on September 24th, it would be the greatest pleasure of my life to be present." "Maria Skoczylas embodies the life that Pope Francis calls on each of us to live," said Lofgren. "I couldn't be prouder to have Maria represent our community during this special occasion in Washington, D.C. In June this year, Ms. Skoczylas was selected by NeighborWorks America, a nationwide nonprofit that supports community development, as a recipient of the Dorothy Richardson Award for Resident Leadership for investing her energy and talents to bring about change that positively impacts the local community. "I've been working with the homeless for nearly thirty years," said Skoczylas. "And in my mind I haven't done anything exceptional – I've just stuck with it and haven't let it go. You don't need to do great things; you just carry out your good deeds and practice the act of kindness every day." His Holiness Pope Francis will visit the United States Capitol on Thursday, September 24, 2015. On that day, he will become the first leader of the Holy See to address a joint meeting of Congress. # # #
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Silicon Valley) announced nearly $1.5 million in federal funding today for Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport to study possible improvements to airfield safety. The funds, administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), will fund a new Runway Incursion Mitigation (RIM) and Airfield Design Standards Analysis. The RIM study is intended to reduce the potential for runway incursions which is the unintended entry onto an active runway by aircraft, vehicles or pedestrians. "I'm pleased to see another sizeable federal investment in Mineta San Jose International," said Lofgren. "This study will help enhance the qualities that make Silicon Valley's airport an attractive choice for travelers, airlines and businesses." "Continuing to invest in our regional airport helps keep Silicon Valley as the capital of innovation, improves safety and efficiency, and boosts our local economy," said Honda. "News of further federal investment in Mineta San Jose International Airport is very welcome, especially in the months leading up to Super Bowl 50." The study, receiving a total of $ 1,498,141 from the FAA, will help identify mitigation alternatives to address SJC's airfield layout which was originally designed in the early-1960's. Since that time, there has been a significant increase in operational activity with larger and heavier aircraft. The FAA issued new design standards for airfields in 2012, and further refined these standards in 2014, through analysis of airfield facilities and operational procedures at airports across the US. SJC is one of the first US airports to undergo a RIM study, made possible by the FAA grant funding. The study is anticipated to begin in November 2015 and take two years to complete. # # #
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Mike Honda (D-Calif.) applauded new procedures announced yesterday to allow employment and family-based immigrants to start their green card process earlier. The new procedures, issued by the State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, will allow tens of thousands of would-be immigrants to begin benefitting from important rights and protections that are afforded to Lawful Permanent Residents. "This will be a welcome change, especially for so many highly-skilled immigrants who are trapped in years-long visa queues," said Lofgren and Honda. "But it cannot change the fundamental problems in our immigration system. While immigrants will be able to start the green card process earlier, they will not be able to complete it any sooner. Congress must act to increase the number of visas available – because the vast majority of those waiting for employment-based green cards are already living and working in the United States, contributing to our economy and paying taxes. It simply makes no sense to trap them in immigration limbo for years or even decades while waiting for green cards because of arbitrary and outdated visa quotas." As a result of this rule change, USCIS will now use filing procedures similar to those used by the State Department for individuals applying abroad. The practical effect for most immigrants is that they can file for green cards a year or more earlier than they otherwise would have been able to. For certain applicants from India - including those with Master's Degrees - the news is even better, as they now can begin the green card process more than 5 years earlier than previously allowed. # # #
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI) and House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement calling for the United States to admit 200,000 global refugees in the coming fiscal year, with 100,000 reserved for Syrian refugees: "Today's global refugee crisis warrants an historic response. According to official reports, there are now more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons – nearly 60 million – than at any time since World War II. "We recently saw a photo of a three year old Syrian refugee, Aylan Kurdi, drowned and washed up on a beach in Turkey. We also saw one of an emotional Syrian father hugging his children closely after they reached land having survived a harrowing journey by sea. These poignant images have had a galvanizing effect on many countries in Europe and around the world. Germany, a country just one fourth of the population of the United States, will receive approximately 800,000 asylum seekers in this year alone – more than 10 times the size of the current U.S. refugee program. "It is time for the United States to join the global community for a humanitarian response. We should do our part by admitting 200,000 refugees, with 100,000 reserved for refugees from Syria. The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program is an important tool for the protection of refugees around the world, including Syrians, Iraqis, and displaced persons around the world. It reflects our nation's commitment to protecting and assisting the world's most vulnerable people, and advances U.S. foreign policy and national security interests by highlighting our commitment to human dignity and increasing our dialogue and cooperation with host nations around the world. Additionally, as Pope Francis has indicated, now is the time for Churches and Parishes across the country to step forward to help refugees in need. "To date, more than four million Syrian refugees have been forced to flee Syria, and the conflict in Syria shows no signs of abating. While the heartrending journeys these refugees undertake are not new – refugees have always endured terrible challenges to reach safety – what has changed is the sheer magnitude of today's crisis. If the United States aims to continue as a global humanitarian leader, then it is our obligation to significantly increase the number of refugees we resettle." # # #
08.21.2015	SAN JOSE, CA - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) reached between the P5+1 nations and Iran: "Since its release in mid-July, I have approached the question of whether to implement the Iran nuclear agreement with the seriousness it merits. I have read the agreement and its annexes and visited the basement of the Capitol to read the related classified materials. I have participated in numerous classified briefings and listened to scholars analyze from various points of view the potential impact of the agreement. I have reviewed the analysis of experts who both favor and oppose the agreement. I have spoken with President Obama at length as well as with Secretary of Energy Ernie Moniz, an expert on nuclear matters. I have met with other members of the negotiating team. Finally, and importantly, I've met with and listened to my constituents - some in favor, some opposed and some undecided. "I have concluded that this agreement is in the best interests of the United States and the world. "This agreement walks Iran back from its current status as a threshold nuclear power. It requires the removal of the nuclear material required for a bomb, and prohibits anything but peaceful nuclear power in the future. "The agreement reflects the mistrust Iran has earned. We will know through monitoring and inspections if Iran is adhering to its commitments to never obtain the bomb. "If Iran tries to cheat, the world will find out quickly. We would then have the same tools available to deal with Iran that we have today - imposition of international sanctions, or the use of military force. Additionally, the agreement crafts the re-imposition of sanctions in such a manner that China and Russia cannot block them. Through an unprecedented regime of international inspections we would also have much more information on which to base these actions than we do today. I expect a future President and Congress will act with unity if faced with such a scenario. "Iran has been a hostile, negative and disruptive force. It has supported terrorists that threaten our allies and fomented war and violence. The agreement is not based on the hope or expectation that Iran will become peaceful and friendly, although all would welcome that development should it occur. It is important to remember that this agreement will not relieve, nor preclude, the United States or our allies from our obligation to counter future Iranian aggression or terrorism with appropriate economic or military responses. "Some question whether it is right to negotiate with an enemy country. But arms control agreements are always negotiated with enemies, not with friends. When nuclear arms control agreements were forged with the Soviet Union, they were our enemy and posed a grave threat to the world. It was still better to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons by negotiated agreement. "Some also suggest a better agreement could have been reached. We cannot know whether a better agreement was possible, but after two years of lengthy and difficult negotiations, this agreement was reached by all the involved nations. The question before the Congress is whether to implement the agreement or not. There is no evidence that rejection by Congress would lead to a new round of negotiations or better terms. "In my view, this agreement is the best option we have to prevent Iran from securing a nuclear weapon. Accordingly, I intend to vote ‘yes' when it comes to the House floor."
08.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.) today issued the below statement following the Department of Justice's response to U.S. District Judge Dolly M. Gee's ruling that the detention of immigrant women and children violated terms of the Flores Settlement: "It's disappointing that the Administration continues to push to jail women and children seeking asylum. The overwhelming evidence shows that detention facilities are harmful to the health and well-being of children, and the facts show that these asylum seekers will show up for their immigration hearings if they are placed in alternatives to jail. "The writing is on the wall – family detention is unacceptable, un-American, and will end. Rather than fight the court's ruling, the right and moral response is to swiftly take the necessary steps to bring our nation's detention policy in line with the Flores settlement agreement." Lofgren, Gutiérrez, and Roybal-Allard are leading critics of the controversial immigrant family detention program, and last week led a letter from 178 House Democrats urging the Department of Homeland Security to quickly comply with Judge Gee's order and end family detention. ###
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two new federal grants were awarded to the San Jose State University Research Foundation for humanities research, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today. The grants – totaling more than $350,000 – were awarded by the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). NEH grants are highly competitive and involve a rigorous peer-review and selection process to ensure that the projects represent the highest level of humanities research and public engagement. "Humanities research is an important way in which we understand the world and help bring clarity to the future," said Lofgren. "I'm pleased that these federal funds will help support a wonderful resource at San Jose State University for school teachers in the valley." $168,632 in federal funds will support a project titled: The Immigrant Experience in California through Literature and Theater, a two-week summer institute for twenty-five school teachers that will explore the immigrant experience in California through literary works and theatrical adaptations. $184,471 will support the project: John Steinbeck: Social Critic and Ecologist, a three-week institute for twenty-seven school teachers on John Steinbeck as a novelist, social critic, and ecologist. # # #
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter signed by 178 members of Congress today, House Democrats called on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to end its controversial Family Detention Program. The letter (pdf), led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), comes on the heels of a U.S. District Court ruling late last week that the detention of immigrant women and children violated terms of the 1997 Flores Settlement, and urges DHS to "take all necessary and appropriate steps to bring the Department's practices in line with the settlement agreement and the recent court ruling." The letter notes the "strong evidence that such detention is detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our Nation's values," and that now "is long past time to end family detention." Full text of the letter is below (Spanish language copy is attached): Dear Secretary Johnson: In May of this year, 136 Members of Congress wrote to you to express serious concern regarding the Department of Homeland Security's detention of thousands of mothers and children in secure, jail-like facilities. The purpose of the letter was to alert you to the strong evidence that such detention is detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our Nation's values. The detained population is largely comprised of refugees fleeing violence and persecution, many of whom have serious medical and mental health needs that have been inadequately addressed in custody. You were urged to end the use of family detention. Last Friday, a federal judge issued a ruling finding that the Department's family detention practices constitute a material breach of a Court-approved class-wide settlement agreement. Flores v. Johnson, CV 85-4544 (C.D. Cal. July 24, 2015). Judge Dolly M. Gee found that the Department's decision to house children in secure facilities that are not licensed by any State agency to care for dependent children violated the 20-year-old Flores settlement agreement. The court also rejected the Department's request to amend that settlement agreement in lieu of remedying the numerous violations. It is long past time to end family detention. In light of this recent federal court ruling, we urge you take all necessary and appropriate steps to bring the Department's practices in line with the settlement agreement and the recent court ruling. Signed: U.S. Reps. Lofgren, Gutierrez, Roybal-Allard, Conyers, Adam Smith, Beyer, Norton, Brady (PA), Deutch, Chu, Lee, Langevin, Loretta Sanchez, Gallego, Ellison, Sires, Jackson Lee, Lujan Grisham, Quigley, Lieu, Cummings, Hank Johnson, Farr, O'Rourke, Capps, McGovern, Doggett, DeGette, Napolitano, Kennedy, Frankel, Van Hollen, Tonko, Sablan, Bass, Takano, Nadler, Richmond, Cardenas, Blumenauer, Titus, Engel, Larson, Grijalva, Wilson, Welch, Serrano, Kaptur, Edwards, Cohen, McCollum, Esty, Eshoo, Becerra, Grayson, Kilmer, Clark, Hinojosa, DeLauro, Vargas, Ruiz, Castro, Fattah, Carson, Linda Sanchez, Watson Coleman, Meng, Crowley, Swalwell, Danny Davis, Matsui, Norcross, Schakowsky, Brownley, Slaughter, Clarke, Al Green, Polis, Lujan, Cicilline, Capuano, Yarmuth, Hoyer, Gene Green, Aguilar, Honda, Murphy, Moore, Hahn, Corrine Brown, Rangel, Vela, Castor, Torres, Butterfield, Bishop, Clyburn, Connolly, Susan Davis, DeSaulnier, Fudge, Hastings, Huffman, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Kildee, Lewis, Lowenthal, Lowey, Maloney, McDermott, McNerney, Meeks, Neal, Nolan, Pallone, Payne, Pingree, Plaskett, Bobby Scott, Sewell, Thompson, Veasey, Velazquez, DelBene, Kind, Duckworth, Schiff, Dingell, Takai, Kelly, Israel, Wasserman Schultz, Carney, Ruppersburger, Jeffries, Sinema, Gabbard, Beatty, Garamendi, Bordallo, Clay, Keating, Bennie Thompson, Tsongas, Waters, Pascrell, Tim Ryan, Pocan, Scott Peters, Pelosi, Sherman, Foster, Adams, Kuster, Bishop, Bonamici, Bordallo, Costa, Bera, Lawrence, Levin, Rush, Spier, Cartwright, Loesback, Sarbanes, Doyle, Ashford, Pierlusi, Perlmutter. # # #
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The Congressional Progressive Caucus, along with Democratic Members of the House Judiciary Committee and support from the Congressional Tri-Caucuses, are holding a forum on Family Detention this Tuesday, July 28th at 2 PM in Rayburn 2226. Witnesses include two formerly detained women, a whistleblower who worked at a family detention center, and experts who will speak to the psychological, developmental and legal implications of current family detention policies. ~~~~~For Planning Purposes~~~~~ WHAT CPC/Judiciary Democrats' Forum on Family Detention WITNESSES 2 formerly detained women Whistleblower who worked at a family detention center Dr. Luis Zayas, Dean of the School of Social Work at the University of Texas at Austin Barbara Hines, Former Clinical Professor at the University of Texas School of Law MEMBERS Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. Zoe Lofgren Re. Luis Gutierrez Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Mark Takano Other CPC, Judiciary and Tri-Caucus Members WHEN Tuesday, July 28th from 2-4 PM WHERE 2226 Rayburn House Office Building ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) called for a thoughtful discussion about community trust policies and a review of the procedures pertaining to the release of federal prisoners against whom immigration detainers have been lodged during a hearing today titled, "Sanctuary Cities: A Threat to Public Safety." Lofgren is the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. Full statement by Rep. Zoe Lofgren: "I would like to welcome all of the witnesses to the hearing today and I want to welcome members of the Steinle family, and extend my heartfelt condolences to you. As a parent myself, I can only imagine the grief that you are going through at this time. "Any time an innocent person is lost to violence me must all consider what steps we can take to make our communities safer. It's important that we all stop and consider what steps we could take: what policies and processes, procedures, rules and laws could be altered so that we would have a safer community, so that tragedy would not occur. So it is important – the process that we're going through at this time. A hearing like this offers Members and the public an opportunity to learn more about the issue, and I hope we can work together collaboratively to address some of the problems we were sent here to Washington to solve. "I'm eager to hear what each witness has to say. I must note that last night, Chairman Goodlatte and I testified before the Rules Committee on H.R. 3009, a bill that has already been decided is the answer – apparently – to this. And I would note that, if 3009 had been enacted into law, it wouldn't have had any impact on these circumstances that resulted in the death of your daughter. In addition to that, major law enforcement associations like the Fraternal Order of Police and the Major Counties Sheriffs' Association and others are telling us that that bill will make us less safe, and they all oppose that bill. "I do think that the testimony of the police chief of Dayton, Ohio – I hope will be instructive, because I have not heard a single person who suggested it was wise, appropriate, or even legal, for the Sheriff in San Francisco to have released the individual who is charged with killing your daughter. Having said that, there are police agencies around the United States who believe that it makes our communities less safe to inquire as to the immigration status of individuals in every case. For example, the domestic violence organizations have contacted us to say that if there is a call for a domestic violence situation, and the individuals who are calling know that they and everyone in their household will be interrogated as to their status – then a family where there's a mixed status will not call for domestic violence. So we have to be mindful of those issues – the entirety of the situation that we face. "I would ask unanimous consent to put into the record a bipartisan letter that was sent to appropriators just four months ago signed by 162 Members of Congress, talking about the importance of the Byrne-JAG and COPS Grants to policing in this country – noting that it is those very grants that would be removed by the legislation that is before the Congress later today. I would also ask unanimous consent to enter into the record letters in opposition to H.R. 3009 by the Major County Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the Law Enforcement Immigration Task Force, the League of Cities, and the US Conference of Mayors. "With that I will just say that I will listen with great interest to all of our witnesses, but especially to Mr. Steinle – and hopefully I will have the chance to meet you after this hearing, and your family as well. As you know, Congresswoman Pelosi and I sent a letter to the Attorney General and the Department of Homeland Security just a few days ago to explore how could it be that you would send a person who should have been deported to a jurisdiction for a warrant that was 20 years old, that clearly there was not going to be a prosecution. "Oddly enough, this individual was deported in 1994, in 1997, in 1998, in 2003, and in none of those instances did this ancient warrant prevent him from being deported. He was also convicted repeatedly of felony re-entry after removal and served 16 years in Federal Prison for that crime, and he just kept trying to get in. And I want to give credit to our Border Patrol because every time he tried to come back in, they caught him, which is exactly what they should do, and he was prosecuted. "So we need to examine all of this, and knowing that none of it can bring your daughter back, but hopefully we will be able to improve the situation as – really – a tribute to your loss. And with that I would yield back, Mr. Chairman." # # #
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During floor debate today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), called on the House of Representatives to "learn from the tragedy in San Francisco to come up with real solutions that would make our community safer" rather than using this tragedy as an excuse to push a political agenda. Lofgren is the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. The full statement as delivered is below: "Madame Speaker, we have an immigration system that is badly broken. There are 11 million undocumented people in this country and contrary to what Donald Trump may think, the majority of these people are not rapists. They are hardworking people—spouses and parents of U.S. citizens, Dreamers, entrepreneurs—who want an opportunity to come forward, submit to background checks, and become fully American. "Faced with a broken system, State and local law enforcement, have adopted policies designed to enhance public safety and maintain community trust. Because when people are afraid of the police—when they are afraid that the police might ask them or their family about their immigration status—they are afraid to report crimes, unlikely to cooperate with investigations, and then criminals thrive and the general public suffers. "This bill puts an impossible choice before State and local law enforcement agencies around the country. They can either abandon these policies that work, or they can lose the Federal funds they rely upon to police their communities and protect them. "The dangers posed by this bill are real. 144 national, state, and local advocacy organizations have written opposing this bill because of the detrimental impact it would have on public safety – big cities, but also little ones, like Dayton, Ohio—a place that most people don't think of as a "sanctuary city." "In Dayton, police officers are instructed not to check immigration status of witnesses and victims nor to ask about immigration during minor traffic stops. The police chief there has explained that that this policy has helped them have a safer community. "According to the chief after the policy was adopted, serious violent crime in Dayton dropped nearly 22 percent and serious property crime decreased almost 15 percent. "Madame Speaker, why should Dayton, Ohio be barred from receiving funds for policing when their policies work? Punishing the law enforcement officers by withholding the funds they need is not only incorrect, it's why the bill is opposed by the Major County Sheriffs' Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, and dozens of sheriffs and police chiefs. "The President has said we should deport felons, not families, and that's what his Priority Enforcement Program does. But the Secretary of Homeland Security told the Judiciary Committee just last week that withholding funds from communities would be a "huge setback" in efforts to improve the relationship between DHS, State and local law enforcement, and communities across the country. "It has been said that this bill is a response to the tragic murder of Kathryn Steinle in San Francisco, just up the road from my district. However, nothing in this bill would have prevented that outrageous murder of Ms. Steinle. "Nothing in the bill would have required the Bureau of Prisons and ICE to consult with San Francisco to ascertain whether or not the 20 year old warrant would lead to a prosecution. "Nothing in this bill would have required ICE to obtain a warrant as is necessary to hold people beyond the term of their criminal sentence. "Nothing in the bill would even have affected the Sheriff of San Francisco's decision to release the individual charged with murdering Ms. Steinle. So that tragedy should not be used to advance a different agenda – this bill. "Over the last year we have come to the Floor to vote on bills to deport the DREAM Act kids, to deport the parents of U.S. citizens, to deport vulnerable children fleeing persecution and sex trafficking. Today we are asked to vote on a bill that overrides the public safety mission of State and local law enforcement agencies to increase the deportations all around. "We had the votes to pass comprehensive immigration reform in the last Congress, and I hope we can get back to that point. "I would note that we have an opportunity here to learn from the tragedy in San Francisco to come up with real solutions that would make our community safer, instead of using that tragedy as an excuse to promote a different agenda. And with that, I yield back the remainder of my time." # # #
07.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – In the wake of the July 1 shooting of 32-year-old San Francisco resident Kathryn Steinle, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) are calling for a review of the policies and practices pertaining to federal prisoners with immigration detainers, writing in a letter that efforts should be made to improve communication and make local communities safer. The letter, addressed to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Attorney General Loretta Lynch, notes that the individual charged in connection with the shooting, Juan Francisco Lopez Sanchez, was transferred from Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) custody to the San Francisco Sheriff's Department based on a warrant for a 20-year-old drug offense. Under current policy, state and Federal criminal matters generally must be resolved before Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will accept custody of an inmate for deportation. Pelosi and Lofgren write: "This policy generally makes sense, because justice demands that a person who commits a crime be held to answer for that offense. Moreover, a person who stands accused of a crime deserves the opportunity to appear in court to repond to the charges. To civilly deport all defendants and deny the ability of states and localities to pursue criminal prosecution would prevent such objectives." "However, in some circumstances, rigid adherence to this policy may not actually serve the interests of justice. Rather, where the outstanding criminal warrant pertains to a particularly old charge not involving violence or serious damage to property – as was the case here – and the state or local prosecutor is unlikely to proceed with a prosecution, there is no purpose to be served in deferring deportation. "When [The Bureau of Prisons] is deciding whether to respect a federal immigration detainer or a non-federal criminal detainer, it would seem to be advantageous for the BOP, ICE, and the state or local jurisdiction to communicate regarding the competing interests at stake. Such a conversation would have to involve not only the law enforcement entity that is asserting the detainer as a result of the outstanding criminal warrant, but also the prosecuting entity that ultimately will decide whether or not to pursue prosecution." Adopting this protocol would facilitate the removal of high-priority individuals, as well as "preserve limited time, money, and manpower that state or local law enforcement entities would otherwise expend needlessly" by retrieving individuals from federal custody who "simply will not be prosecuted." The full text of the letter is available here. # # #
07.16.2015	San Jose, California--Five years after the enactment of the Wall Street Reform Act which created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the CFPB is working on rules to curb the abuses of the payday, car title and installment lending industry. As it takes up that momentous task, the California Reinvestment Coalition (CRC) and California Democratic Congressional Delegation Chair Representative Zoe Lofgren sent the Bureau a message of strong encouragement today. Statement from Representative Lofgren: "The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a unique federal agency, focused on making financial markets and products accessible and upfront for Americans. In the three years since it was established, the CFPB has helped countless families make sense of a wide variety of financial products – from navigating student loans, to getting a mortgage, opening a new credit card, and more. As it enters its fourth year, I hope the CFPB focuses on reforming the predatory payday lending industry and ending the dangerous payday loan debt trap by creating strong consumer protections and encouraging innovative alternatives for consumers who need short-term, emergency loans to make ends meet." "Too many California consumers fall into the payday loan debt trap, and have their income and savings stripped away through the unaffordable cycle of debt. An ability to repay requirement is a fundamental cornerstone of responsible lending and a crucial element of this rulemaking," explains Paulina Gonzalez, executive director of CRC. "For the first time, payday lenders would be required to conduct business the same way we expect responsible banks and mortgage lenders to – by underwriting to ensure that borrowers can afford to repay their debt and still cover basic necessities like rent and food." Representative Lofgren is one of 101 congressional signers (68 House members and 33 Senators, including 14 California Representatives and both Senators) of letters urging the CFPB to proceed with rules strong and broad enough to end the abusive practices of payday, car-title and other high-cost consumer lenders. A strong CFPB rule will keep Americans from getting trapped in the cycle of debt that is too often the result of these high-cost loans. Payday lenders claim to be offering a one-time financial quick fix. In truth, their business model is to make loans they know cannot be paid back in full and on time – without requiring the borrower to take out another loan to cover basic necessities like food and rent. In fact, 75 percent of all fees paid to payday lenders come from borrowers who take out more than 10 loans in a year, and three-quarters of all payday loans are taken out within two weeks of a previous loan. One third of the time, when borrowers repay these loans, they overdraw their checking accounts, incurring yet more loan charges. Under the terms of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law of 2010, the CFPB has the authority to regulate small-dollar consumer loans. The agency released a broad outline of its plans in March, and is expected to come out with a formal proposal later this year. To fight back, the payday lending industry will both attack the bureau itself, and attempt to weaken the rules. A new poll conducted in early July by Lake Research and commissioned by Americans for Financial Reform and the Center for Responsible Lending underlines public concern about payday abuses, and strong support for regulation. By more than a 3:1 margin, the survey shows, voters regard payday loans as predatory, rejecting a counterargument presenting them as an important resource. Community organizations, elected officials, consumers and other stakeholders are mobilizing strong support in California to win and defend strong CFPB rules and defeat any attacks by the industry.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement regarding an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) announcement that some mothers and children seeking refuge at our borders will be released from detention facilities: "ICE recently announced that it was releasing families from detention on bond, ankle bracelets, or orders of supervision if they have passed credible and reasonable fear interviews. This is a very important step in the right direction. However, we remain strongly convinced that no family – regardless of status – should be housed in jail-like facilities for any length of time. "During our visit to Texas detention facilities, we met with mothers and children who described the trauma of being held in jail-like conditions, even for short periods of time. Luis Zayas, Dean of Social Work at the University of Texas, has said that the trauma of detention can be observed in children who have been detained for as little as two or three weeks. "We greatly appreciate the steps DHS is taking to limit detention for families, but we believe that family detention in its current form must end completely and unequivocally." Reps. Gutiérrez, Roybal-Allard, and Lofgren are leading critics of policies that detain women and children seeking refugee protection in the United States in jail-like facilities, and they have been joined by a majority of House Democrats in calling for an end to family detention. There have been many recent reports of lengthy detention, serious medical concerns, and significant developmental delays in children. # # #
06.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the below statement following the Supreme Court's ruling today in Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission: "Voters in several states – including California – chose to create independent redistricting commissions to put an end to using redistricting as a partisan political tool. Today's ruling upholds that choice, and is an important victory for open and transparent governance. "Congress can build on this ruling by passing the Redistricting Reform Act to end partisan gerrymandering throughout the nation. This is a bipartisan issue that needs bipartisan support to create a fair and accountable process that puts voters – not politicians – first." Article I, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution reads: "The times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each state by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations, except as to the places of choosing Senators". Under the Redistricting Reform Act of 2015: Each state would be required to establish an independent, multi-party redistricting commission to draw Congressional district maps. Specific eligibility requirements ensure that members of the commissions cannot have certain conflicts of interests, such as lobbyists, political donors or party operatives, and must reflect the diversity of the state while operating transparently. The criteria for a redistricting plan developed by the independent commission provides that districts must: have equal population per representative, in accordance with the U.S. Constitution; comply with the Voting Rights Act of 1965; be geographically contiguous and compact, as well as have boundaries that minimize the division of any community of interest, municipality, county, or neighborhood. The commission must provide ample notice and opportunity for the public to provide input and engage in the redistricting process. Click here for the bill text and a summary of the legislation. # # #
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of eight House Democrats recounted a trip they took this week to visit two private family detention facilities in Texas used to hold mothers and children awaiting disposition of their asylum claims. Listen to audio recording of the press conference here During this trip, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD), Joaquin Castro (TX), Judy Chu (CA), Raúl Grijalva (AZ), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX), Zoe Lofgren (CA), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA) met with detainees at the Karnes County Residential Center in Karnes City on Monday, June 22nd, and at the South Texas Family Residential Center in Dilley on Tuesday, June 23rd, to discuss their experiences, living conditions, and more. During the press conference, members released videos and pictures they took during their visit, which show women and children pleading for their freedom. The Members are among the 136 House Democrats who recently signed a letter to DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson calling for an end to family detention. They plan to meet with Secretary Johnson later this afternoon to discuss what they observed at the family detention centers, and their concerns regarding the recently announced DHS policy changes to immigrant family detention. Video footage of South Texas Family Residential Center – Dilley, TX | June 23, 2015 Available for viewing and download at: http://bit.ly/1GpEPKq Additional Video Footage: Pictures of South Texas Family Residential Center and Karnes County Residential Center | June 22-23, 2015 Available for viewing and download here ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment by Congressman Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) to defund two surveillance "backdoors" that currently allow intelligence agencies access to Americans' private data and correspondence without a warrant. The amendment, which is part of the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Defense appropriations bill (H.R. 2685), passed by a vote of 255-174. "The USA Freedom Act is not the last word on surveillance reform," said Rep. Massie. "Backdoor surveillance authorized under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act is arguably worse than the bulk collection of records illegally collected under Section 215 of the Patriot Act. This amendment is a much needed next step as Congress continues to rein in the surveillance state and reassert the Fourth Amendment." "This amendment is the most meaningful step Congress can take to end warrantless bulk collection of US persons' communications and data," said Rep. Lofgren. "We know that mass surveillance of Americans, as reported in the news, has taken place under the FISA Section 702 authority. This vote shows once again that the House is committed to upholding the Constitution and protecting Americans from warrantless invasions of their privacy. Enacting this amendment into law will benefit our economy, protect our competitiveness abroad, and make significant strides in rebuilding the public's trust." Under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, Americans' private data and communications – including emails, photos, and text messages – can be collected by intelligence agencies, provided that data or communication at some point crosses the border of the United States. Given the current fluid nature of electronic communications and data storage, in which corporate and private server farms store Americans' data all over the world, this loophole could allow intelligence agencies access to a vast swath of communications and data without warrant protection. Intelligence officials have confirmed to Congress that law enforcement agencies actively search the content of this intercepted data without probable cause, and have used evidence gathered to assist in criminal prosecutions. Government agencies have also reportedly coerced individuals and organizations to build encryption "backdoors" into products or services for surveillance purposes, despite industry and cryptologist claims that this process is not technologically feasible without putting the data security of every individual using these services at risk. The Massie-Lofgren Amendment would prohibit funding for activities that exploit these "backdoors." An identical amendment to the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act last year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 293-123 vote, but it was not included in the omnibus spending legislation that passed last December. The amendment is supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups as well as tech companies, including the American Civil Liberties Union, Bill of Rights Defense Committee, Campaign for Liberty, Constitutional Alliance, Council on American-Islamic Relations, CREDO Mobile, Defending Dissent Foundation, Demand Progress, DownsizeDC.org, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Fight for the Future, Free Press Action Fund, FreedomWorks, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Generation Opportunity, Google, Liberty Coalition, Media Alliance, New America's Open Technology Institute, OpenMedia.org, OpenTheGovernment.org, Project On Government Oversight, Public Knowledge, Restore The Fourth, RootsAction.org, Student Net Alliance, Sunlight Foundation, TechFreedom, and X-Lab. Other co-sponsors include Reps Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Conyers (D-MI), Poe (R-TX), Gabbard (D-HI), Jordan (R-OH), O'Rourke (D-TX), Amash (R-MI), Nadler (D-NY), Collins (R-GA), DelBene (D-WA), Labrador (R-ID), Pocan (D-WI), Farenthold (R-TX), Lieu (D-CA), and Sanford (R-SC). ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Fifteen bipartisan members of Congress are calling on the Vietnamese Government to release human rights blogger Tran Huynh Duy Thuc and 26 additional wrongfully incarcerated political prisoners. The letter, led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), urges the Vietnamese government "to uphold its commitments to international law and to release Mr. Thuc and all other imprisoned individuals on the attached list immediately and unconditionally." The letter cites the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention which called for Mr. Thuc's release after determining his detention to be "arbitrary and in violation of legal standards" of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Vietnam is a party. The letter goes on to note that "although the government of Vietnam has indicated an interest in strengthening both economic and security ties with the United States," there remain significant concerns "that the continued imprisonment of political prisoners like Tran Huynh Duy Thuc shows a lack of commitment and respect for human rights." Lofgren first asked for the release of these political prisoners during a United States Congressional delegation to Vietnam on March 31, 2015 after meeting with political dissidents. The Vietnamese government responded by intimidating several of the individuals who met with U.S. Members of Congress in Vietnam to speak out for better working conditions, political inclusion, or for the right to freely exercise their religion. The letter was signed by U.S. Reps. Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Daniel T. Kildee (D-Mich.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Ted Leiu (D-Calif.), Sander M. Levin (D-Mich.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif), Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Ed Royce (R-Calif.) Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.), Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.), Chris Smith (R- N.J.), and Mike Thompson (D-Calif.). Click here to view the letter (pdf), and here for the full list of prisoners (pdf). # # #
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the overwhelming majority of Democrats in the House -- including Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) – sent Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson a letter (link, pdf) saying the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) "has not fully grasped the serious harm being inflicted upon mothers and children" who are being held in "jail-like" secure facilities awaiting adjudication of their asylum and immigration cases. The letter (link, pdf), spearheaded by Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), says the practice is "detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our nation's values." The letter calls particular attention to reports of poor or non-existent medical care for detainees, including those traumatized in their countries of origin and traumatized en route to the United States. "We cannot hear reports of serious harm to children in custody and do nothing about it," the letter states. "Detaining mothers and children in jail-like settings is not the answer. We have an opportunity to do the right thing and are confident that DHS has the capacity to honor our Nation's longstanding commitment both to the protection and well-being of refugee families and to law enforcement and public safety." DHS dramatically ramped up the practice of detaining mothers and children in family detention centers a year ago in response to a surge of Central Americans seeking asylum from endemic violence, murder and rape. DHS claims the practice is necessary as a deterrent to other migrants and recently announced a series of measures to make conditions more humane. However, as the letter notes, a federal court has specifically disallowed the practice of detaining mothers and children as a form of deterrence and the Members of Congress who have signed the letter feel that the only humane way to detain mothers and children is to not do it. "We believe the only solution to this problem is to end the use of family detention," the letter states. "Children require special protections and should not be placed in jail-like settings." Last week, Reps. Roybal-Allard, Lofgren and Gutiérrez were joined by many House Democrats at a Capitol Hill press conference calling for an end to family detention. There have been many recent reports of lengthy detention, serious medical concerns and significant developmental delays in children. Opposition to family detention appears to be growing with the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and several newspapers (e.g., New York Times, Seattle Times) highlighting the need to end to the practice. # # #
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C – Leading House Democrats joined former detainees and legal advocates today calling on the Department of Homeland Security to end its immigrant family detention program in a press conference Thursday morning. The lawmakers, led by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), cited the inhumane and cruel conditions in detention centers, and the harmful impacts of incarceration on the psychological health and well-being of mothers and their children. "Vulnerable women and children fleeing violence and abuse in their home countries are not breaking the law – they're seeking asylum in the United States," said Lofgren. "That is a key tenant of our immigration laws. To throw them in jail – oftentimes with inadequate medical treatment, poor living conditions, and in some cases outright neglect and abuse – is not only unconscionable, but it's un-American. It's time we end this cruel detention system, and adhere to the Department of Homeland Security's own policy to use alternatives instead of jail for mothers and children." "We need to shine a spotlight on the harm that detention does to children," said Gutiérrez. "We have seen studies on the long-term repercussions for children and heard reports of poor treatment in custody. We know how detention reduces the chances of ever talking to a lawyer so that the truth of your circumstances comes out. We all need to remember that these are our children and families. They could be our nieces and nephews and neighbors' kids and we should not be in the business of jailing children." "As Americans, we believe in fairness, we believe in decency, and we believe in the value of children," said Roybal-Allard. "Let us not ignore those values or the devastating impact our nation's family detention centers have on the mental health and development of these children. Instead, let us apply our American values and use alternatives to detention that are effective, less costly, and more humane, such as supervised release." The lawmakers were joined by Maria Rosa Lopez, a Honduran refugee and victim of violence and abuse who spoke of her time as a detainee for six months at the Karnes County Residential Center. Maria Rosa and her son Yoandri suffered so greatly due to the poor living conditions, undrinkable water, degrading behavior, and lack of access to legal representation, that she organized a hunger strike with other women at Karnes to protest their treatment and detention. Dree Collopy, a pro bono attorney and partner at Benach Ragland. LLP, recounted her experience working with women and children held in inhumane conditions. She spoke of dehydrated and malnourished children, abusive and humiliating treatment, sexual abuse, and beatings. Her clients – mothers and children – were often afflicted with severe PTSD and depression that will take many years to treat. Also in attendance to speak out against family detention were U.S. Reps. Rep. Linda Sánchez (D- Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Judy Chu (D- Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Rep. Jared Polis (D- Colo.), Chair of the Progressive Caucus Immigration Task Force, Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.), Co-Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force, Rep. Rubén Hinojosa (D-Texas), Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D- Texas), Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.), and Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas). # # #
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Leading privacy advocates in the House of Representatives urged House Leadership today to stand firm against a short-term extension of Section 215 authority. The letter, signed by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Justin Amash (R-Mich.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), Jared Polis (D-Colo.) and Ted Poe (R-Texas), warns that any "vote on a clean authorization of this [Section 215] authority without real reforms would be a disservice to the hundreds of millions of Americans we represent." Noting that the Second Circuit Court decision has ruled the bulk metadata collection illegal, the members pledged to "not vote to reauthorize this program, even for a short period of time." Click here for the full text of the letter. # # #
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement calling on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to end its family detention policy after a new set of actions was announced by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): "We acknowledge that DHS is trying to address broad public disappointment with its policy of incarcerating vulnerable women and children. Unfortunately, today's plan states that DHS will continue detaining women and children, and only consider methods of making the facilities better and more humane. "The United States government should not be in the business of holding mothers and children in detention, no matter how nice the facilities or how many stakeholder meetings the government has. "Jailing children and women is not the answer. It is detrimental to child development, and can have serious and long-lasting impacts on the psychological health and well-being of these families. Furthermore, we've learned of many women and children confined in detention centers who have severe medical needs, including intellectual disabilities, cancers, and various serious medical disorders. "We need to do the right thing, and we are confident that DHS can both honor our nation's commitment to the well-being of children as well as our commitment to law enforcement and public safety. "The government should be releasing detainees on supervised or monitored release pending the disposition of their cases – not fighting the court orders, injunctions, and overwhelming evidence against family detention." Rep. Gutiérrez is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Roybal-Allard is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, and Rep. Lofgren is the Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. # # #
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the below statement today following passage of the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 2048) in the House, and called on additional reforms to end warrantless bulk collection of U.S. persons' data and communications: "The USA FREEDOM Act makes meaningful reforms to a few of our nation's surveillance programs. I applaud the bill's authors who worked to make sure these improvements were included. "But this bill does not end all of the warrantless bulk collection of US persons' communications and data. While the legislation does not create these privacy violations, it fails to address widely reported privacy violations that occur under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act and Executive Order 12333. "The House voted last year to close these backdoor forms of warrantless bulk surveillance by an overwhelming margin of 293-123. Reformers were blocked by Leadership and the Rules Committee from considering those much needed improvements to this bill today. "Continuing these backdoor surveillance programs is wrong, detrimental to our economy, our competitiveness abroad, and the public's trust. It's time to end these serious privacy violations so that our government adheres to the constitution and protects electronic privacy. "This bill is an improvement over the status quo. During Committee consideration the Judiciary Chairman and others assured reformers that once this bill passed we will quickly address backdoor surveillance loopholes under Section 702 and Executive Order 12333. If these commitments are not kept, reformers will reconsider their support for this legislation when it returns to the House from the Senate." Lofgren's full floor statement during debate can be viewed here. ###
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) released a new bipartisan letter to President Obama today warning that the Trans-Pacific Partnership should not advance without significant, binding, enforceable advances in human rights and international labor standards. The letter, signed by 13 members of Congress, raises concerns that Congress has "not yet been provided adequate access to the TPP negotiating text" and singles out Vietnam for its particularly disturbing record on human rights, noting that the TPA legislation fails to provide "any guidance on how human rights concerns will be resolved with TPP partner countries." The letter continues: "Vietnam presents the greatest challenge in ensuring compliance. Workers there are prohibited from joining any union other than organizations controlled by the Communist Party. Vietnamese workers must be free to associate with others, bargain collectively, speak freely, and to organize for their own benefit." Full text of the letter is below: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write to express our view that the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability (TPA) Act and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) should not advance without enforceable human rights provisions and enforceable international labor standards. A number of TPP parties, especially Vietnam, have disturbing records on human rights. The negotiating objective in the TPA bill falls short of providing any guidance on how human rights concerns will be resolved with TPP partner countries. We fear the TPP does not yet have a mechanism to ensure International Labor Organization (ILO) compliance by TPP parties that have labor laws and practices that fall far short of international standards contained in the "May 10" agreement". This 2007 agreement called for the inclusion of the ILO's core labor standards in pending and future trade agreements, and the establishment of enforcement mechanisms in order to more likely ensure compliance. Vietnam presents the greatest challenge in ensuring compliance. Workers there are prohibited from joining any union other than organizations controlled by the Communist party. Vietnamese workers must be free to associate with others, bargain collectively, speak freely, and to organize for their own benefit. The TPA and TPP should not advance unless significant, binding, enforceable advances in human rights and international labor standards are part of the agreement. We are also concerned that Congress has not yet been provided adequate access to the TPP negotiating text to allow members to properly evaluate the proposed agreement. Support for TPA or a TPP agreement will be heavily influenced by whether or not enforcement mechanisms are included in them to ensure that TPP partner countries comply with international labor standards and human rights. We urge the Administration to add such provisions in a timely manner before Congressional consideration occurs. Sincerely, U.S. Reps: DeSaulnier (CA-11) Honda (CA-17) Huffman (CA-02) Kildee (MI-05) Lee (CA-13) Lofgren (CA-19) Lowenthal (CA-47) McDermott (WA-07) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) C. Smith (NJ-4) Swalwell (CA-15) Takano (CA-41) # # #
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Democratic lawmakers led by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), and Donna F. Edwards (D-Md.) introduced new legislation today to end partisan gerrymandering and reform the nation's patchwork redistricting system. The Redistricting Reform Act of 2015, introduced by 19 House Democrats and supported by Common Cause and the National Council of La Raza, will require states to establish independent, multi-party citizen redistricting commissions to draw open and transparent statewide district maps after each decennial census. In many states, electoral maps are currently drawn behind closed doors to protect incumbent seats by whatever party holds a statewide majority. Sometimes this process is accelerated in order to swing the outcome of upcoming elections, or in other cases, the two major parties cut backroom deals to preserve the status quo and ensure years of noncompetitive elections. "The issue of redistricting reform is one that is central to our democracy, and now that the matter is before the U.S. Supreme Court, it has never been more important," said Lofgren. "What we see now is too often a troubling reality in which politicians choose their voters instead of voters picking their elected officials. The Redistricting Reform Act fixes this by creating a more transparent electoral process to hold politicians accountable to the people they represent." "I believe that districts drawn by incumbents to protect their jobs makes politicians less accountable to their constituents and more accountable to the special interests, which has eroded public trust and contributed to a deep and intractable dysfunction in Congress," said Brownley. "California's citizen-driven redistricting process proved that government of, for, and by the people is not only possible, but its success makes it imperative. Utilizing independent citizen redistricting commissions will result in a more transparent election process and more accountable representation." "For far too long our nation's congressional district lines have been subject to political gerrymandering, which has undermined the public's confidence in our democratic system," said Lowenthal. "But there is another way – letting the people draw the lines. Our bill would ensure that communities' voices are heard by creating a transparent, citizen-driven process to draw our district lines." "I have long supported the kind of redistricting reform that will end the partisan manipulation that scars our democracy," said Edwards. "The Redistricting Reform Act will open up the democratic process and end the partisan gerrymandering that too often has left Americans without fair representation. As the Democracy for All Task Force chair, I look forward to encouraging other members in supporting this critical legislation." Under the Redistricting Reform Act of 2015: Each state would be required to establish an independent, multi-party redistricting commission to draw Congressional district maps. Specific eligibility requirements ensure that members of the commissions cannot have certain conflicts of interests, such as lobbyists, political donors or party operatives, and must reflect the diversity of the state while operating transparently. The criteria for a redistricting plan developed by the independent commission provides that districts must: have equal population per representative, in accordance with the U.S. Constitution; comply with the Voting Rights Act of 1965; be geographically contiguous and compact, as well as have boundaries that minimize the division of any community of interest, municipality, county, or neighborhood. The commission must provide ample notice and opportunity for the public to provide input and engage in the redistricting process. Click here for the bill text and a summary of the legislation. Original cosponsors of the Redistricting Reform Act include U.S. Reps. Boyle (PA-13), Brownley (CA-26), Capps (CA-24), Davis (CA-53), Edwards (MD-04), Eshoo (CA-18), Grijalva (AZ-03), Honda (CA-17), Larson (CT-01), Lieu (CA-33), Lofgren (CA-19), Lowenthal (CA-47), Norton (DC), Pelosi (CA-12), Price (NC-04), Sarbanes (MD-03), Schiff (CA-28), Swalwell (CA-15), Thompson (CA-05), Van Hollen (MD-08), Vargas (CA-51), Welch (VT), and Yarmuth (KY-03). # # #
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, lamented today's Judiciary subcommittee hearing on birthright citizenship as a fruitless and politically motivated effort to revisit an ugly chapter in our Nation's history. "Is the purpose of this hearing really to consider whether the Citizenship Clause of the 14th Amendment – adopted in the aftermath of the Civil War – outlived its usefulness? Can we expect the full Committee to soon take up the question of whether the Equal Protection Clause guarantees too much equity?" Lofgren added that in considering whether birthright citizenship is the right policy for America, "I think the answer is clearly yes, and that in fact no other policy would be worthy of this country." Lofgren's full statement as delivered is below: "Earlier this month, the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology – where I also serve – held a hearing to cast doubt on global warming science. Nevermind the overwhelming consensus in the scientific community that humans are contributing to climate change. Nevermind the evidence that rapidly increasing greenhouse gas emissions are disrupting life all over the world. Rather than working to develop and support innovative methods of combatting climate change, the Science Committee held another hearing to debate whether established science is real. "I can't help but think that today's hearing is a similarly fruitless effort. "The question that we are asked to consider is whether birthright citizenship is the right policy for America. I think the answer is clearly yes, and that in fact no other policy would be worthy of this country. "The origins of birthright citizenship long pre-date the Fourteenth Amendment. Supreme Court Justice Joseph Story said early on that "[n]othing is better settled at common law than the doctrine" of jus soli, or citizenship by place of birth. "The Supreme Court once diverged from this principle in the infamous Dred Scott decision when it denied birthright citizenship to the descendants of slaves. The violent institution of slavery itself was clearly an incredible injustice. In Dred Scott, the Supreme Court found a way to continue that injustice—to reinforce the caste system at the heart of slavery—even with respect to children born in this country to freed slaves. "There is no question that the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted—and the Citizenship Clause was included as the very first sentence of that Amendment—to repudiate Dred Scott and to help us turn the corner on an ugly chapter in our Nation's history. But the Clause did not simply say, as it could have, that children born in this country to freed slaves are citizens of this country. Rather, the Framers of the 14th Amendment spoke in general terms, guaranteeing that "All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside." "From the debate in Congress at the time it is clear that they understood this language to have much broader reach. It is also clear that Members were motivated to embed this language in the Constitution precisely because a constitutional right of citizenship would be protected from the caprice of Congress and the prejudices of the day. "Thirty years after the 14th Amendment was ratified, the Supreme Court had occasion to consider whether a child born in this country to Chinese immigrants who were, by law, prohibited from naturalizing was entitled to birthright citizenship. The Supreme Court answered that question in the affirmative with sweeping language that is worth quoting. The Court held: "The fourteenth amendment affirms the ancient and fundamental rule of citizenship by birth within the territory, in the allegiance and under the protection of the country, including all children here born of resident aliens, with the exceptions or qualifications (as old as the rule itself) of children of foreign sovereigns or their ministers, or born on foreign public ships, or of enemies within and during a hostile occupation of part of our territory, and with the single additional exception of children of members of the Indian tribes owing direct allegiance to their several tribes. United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U.S. 649, 693 (1898). "A minority view among legal scholars holds that Wong Kim Ark speaks only to children of legally present immigrants. The language in the case certainly does not suggest that additional exceptions or qualifications to the fundamental rule of birthright citizenship would apply to children of undocumented immigrants born in this country. "But even if that were true, the Supreme Court in the 1982 case of Plyler v. Doe settled the question. In Plyler, the Court explained that the phrase "subject to the jurisdiction [of the United States]" in the Citizenship Clause applies as comprehensively as the phrase "within its jurisdiction" in the Equal Protection Clause. And "no plausible distinction with respect to Fourteenth Amendment ‘jurisdiction' can be drawn between resident aliens whose entry into the United States was lawful, and resident aliens whose entry was unlawful." Plyler v. Doe, 457 U.S. 202, 211 n. 10 (1982). "So if there really isn't a serious debate among scholars about what the Clause means is the purpose of this hearing really to consider whether the Citizenship Clause of the 14th Amendment—adopted in the aftermath of the Civil War—has outlived its usefulness? Can we expect the full Committee to soon take up the question of whether Equal Protection Clause guarantees too much equality? "Preparing for this hearing, I thought about Republican Party's history as the "Party of Lincoln." On the GOP's own website there is a history of the party that proudly marks January 13, 1866, as the day that the 14th Amendment was passed by Congress "[w]ith unanimous Republican support and against intense Democratic opposition." And yet the question we are asked to consider today is whether the passage of the 14th Amendment and the Citizenship Clause almost 150 years ago was good policy for America. "It is no wonder that when this issue last flared up in 2010 and congressional Republicans voiced their support for legislation and constitutional amendments to restrict birthright citizenship, prominent Republicans like Mark McKinnon cautioned that "The 14th Amendment is a great legacy of the Republican party. It is a shame and an embarrassment that the GOP now wants to amend it for starkly political reasons." "Republican leaders in the Senate narrowly avoided a debate on this topic just last week when they prevented Senator Vitter from offering a birthright citizenship amendment to a bill on human trafficking. I cannot imagine that Republican leaders in the House are any more interested in bringing this issue to the Floor. Actually, it has been 10 years since this Subcommittee last held a hearing on this topic and I note that one of our witnesses—Professor Eastman—testified before us at that time. Hopefully all of that means that this will be the last we hear of the issue for quite some time." # # #
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) introduced bipartisan legislation today to better target serious criminals and curb overzealous prosecutions for non-malicious computer and Internet offenses. The legislation, inspired by the late Internet innovator and activist Aaron Swartz, who faced up to 35 years in prison for an act of civil disobedience, would reform the quarter-century old Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) to better reflect computer and Internet activities in the digital age. Numerous and recent instances of heavy-handed prosecutions for non-malicious computer crimes have raised serious questions as to how the law treats violations of terms of service, employer agreement or website notices. Cosponsors of the legislation also include U.S. Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), and Beto O'Rourke (D-Texas). "The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act is long overdue for reform," said Lofgren. "At its very core, CFAA is an anti-hacking law. Unfortunately, over time we have seen prosecutors broadening the intent of the act, handing out inordinately severe criminal penalties for less-than-serious violations. It's time we reformed this law to better focus on truly malicious hackers and bad actors, and away from common computer and Internet activities." "VioLating a smartphone app's terms of service or sharing academic articles should not be punished more harshly than a government agency hacking into Senate files," Wyden said. "The CFAA is so inconsistently and capriciously applied it results in misguided, heavy-handed prosecution. Aaron's Law would curb this abuse while still preserving the tools needed to prosecute malicious attacks." "I am proud to join Sen. Wyden and Rep. Lofgren today in offering this bipartisan and bicameral legislation which will amend the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Aaron's Law will reduce overbroad prosecutions and adjust unfair sentencing practices," Paul said. Aaron's Law would address fundamental problems with the CFAA by: Establishing that breaches of terms of service, employment agreements, or contracts are not automatic violations of the CFAA. By using legislative language based closely on 9th and 4th Circuit Court opinions, the bill would instead define 'access without authorization' under the CFAA as gaining unauthorized access to information by circumventing technological or physical controls — such as password requirements, encryption or locked office doors. Hack attacks such as phishing, injection of malware or keystroke loggers, denial-of-service attacks, and viruses would continue to be fully prosecutable under the strong CFAA provisions this bill does not modify. Bringing balance back to the CFAA by eliminating a redundant provision that enables an individual to be punished multiple times through duplicate charges for the same violation. Eliminating the redundant provision streamlines the law, but would not create a gap in protection against hackers. Bringing greater proportionality to CFAA penalties. Currently, the CFAA's penalties are tiered, and prosecutors have wide discretion to ratchet up the severity of the penalties in several circumstances, leaving little room for non-felony charges under CFAA (i.e., charges with penalties carrying less than a year in prison). The bill ensures prosecutors cannot seek to inflate sentences by stacking multiple charges under the CFAA, including state law equivalents or non-criminal violations of the law. Aaron's Law was first introduced by Rep. Lofgren and Sen. Wyden in the 113th Congress. Click here for bill text, and a section-by-section summary of the legislation. # # #
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, issued the following statement today in response to an Inspector General report concerning Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas: "I have known Alejandro Mayorkas since he was first appointed to serve as the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services several years ago, and have always found him with a deep respect for the rule of law and a strong interest in the programs he administers. He has made serving the public interest and enhancing program integrity a top priority throughout his tenure." "I was pleased to see that following an exhaustive investigation involving dozens of interviews and more than one million emails and related files, the Inspector General was unable to produce any evidence of impropriety by Director Mayorkas." "Certainly we can draw lessons from this report, such as the need to not only do the right thing – as Director Mayorkas invariably has – but also take pains to maintain the public's confidence and trust while we do so. But we should remain mindful that any conclusions we draw from this report must be grounded in the actual facts and findings it contains." # # #
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Lawmakers will introduce bipartisan legislation today to allow consumers to permanently unlock their cellphones, tablets, and other electronic communications devices in order to switch carriers. The Unlocking Technology Act of 2015, introduced by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), and Jared Polis (D-Colo.), expands and improves on cell phone unlocking legislation signed into law last year by allowing consumers to permanently unlock all their mobile devices and media in ways that do not infringe on existing copyrights. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act currently forbids consumers from sidestepping technical measures that prevent modifying copyrighted works — such as jailbreaking a tablet to run 3rd-party apps, bypassing digital rights management for archiving or disability access purposes, or unlocking a cell phone — regardless of whether there is any actual copyright infringement. "This bill reflects how the American public views ownership of their electronic devices," said Lofgren. "It's simple – you should be free to unlock the mobile devices and media you legally purchase. If consumers are not violating copyright or other law, there's little reason to hold back the many benefits of unlocking. It's time we allow people to permanently use their devices without interference." "Everyone should be free to use their personal property as they see fit and choose their preferred technologies without penalty," said Massie. "This bill rolls back excessive and out-dated prohibitions on otherwise lawful innovations that promote marketplace competition. I look forward to advancing this bipartisan effort with Reps. Lofgren, Polis, and Eshoo." "Unlocking a cell phone or smart device gives consumers the freedom to choose the mobile technology and service that best suits them," said Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. "It also unlocks potential and puts competition and consumer choice on equal footing in the vibrant mobile marketplace. This bipartisan legislation ensures consumers have this option—permanently. It's a win for consumers, it's a win for competition, and it's a win for our mobile economy." "Consumers who are not under contract should be able to unlock their cell phones or tablets," said Polis. "We should not have laws on the books that prohibit consumer choice and stifle competition in the marketplace. I am pleased to introduce this bill with Representatives Lofgren, Massie, and Eshoo which will permanently restore consumers' freedom to switch wireless carriers." The Unlocking Technology Act improves on existing law by permanently allowing consumers to unlock all of their mobile devices – not only cell phones. Cell phone unlocking legislation signed into law last year merely reinstated a temporary exemption and still relies on the Library of Congress to renew it every three years, which it may choose not to do. The Unlocking Technology Act makes this cell phone exemption permanent and extends unlocking protections to all mobile devices. The bill would also permit the use and sale of tools — like software apps — that enable unlocking for uses that do not infringe on copyright, and consumers would not be required to obtain permission from their carrier before switching to a new carrier. The legislation further requires these changes be included in any international trade agreements. Click here for bill text and a section summary of the legislation.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and a bipartisan coalition of members of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives today introduced the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research (FASTR) Act, a bill to improve public access to federally-funded research. The FASTR Act's introduction coincides with "Sunshine Week," a movement to highlight the need for transparency and openness from the federal government. "Federal funding supports researchers and scientists hard at work every day, and when this information is shared openly with the public, it is a powerful building block for future discoveries," Rep. Lofgren said. "Transparent and increased public access can accelerate breakthroughs, encourage collaborative research, and lead to faster commercialization and untold benefits for the public, our economy, and our competitive advantage as a nation." "Improving public access to federally-funded research is good government and is the right thing to do," Sen. Cornyn said. "There is no reason why taxpayers should not have prompt, easy access to the research they themselves have helped fund. "American taxpayers fund billions in research that unlocks breakthroughs in technology, science, medicine and dozens of other disciplines," Sen. Wyden said. "By taking that research out from behind paywalls and making it accessible to all Americans, the FASTR Act will promote new innovations and give America a better return on its investment." "I'm proud to reintroduce FASTR with my colleagues," Rep. Doyle said. "This bill would give the American people greater access to the scientific research they've already paid for. That's only fair. In addition, FASTR would facilitate the dissemination of new knowledge within the scientific community, which I believe would accelerate innovation and economic growth. I believe that Open Access policies like this can be instrumental in expanding U.S. leadership in science going forward." "This bill takes meaningful steps to improve transparency and accountability in the federal government," Rep. Yoder said. "It will not only bring easier access to federally-funded research, but will also help ensure that our taxpayer dollars are getting their highest possible return on investment." The FASTR Act would: Require each publicly-funded researcher to submit an electronic copy of the final text of peer-reviewed research and ensure that manuscript is available for free online access within six months. Spur innovation and encourage job creation by allowing faster access to research that can help individuals and businesses turn ideas and concepts into goods and services. Encourage private investment in information technology to capitalize on government research. Ensure a higher return on taxpayer investment that could be worth around $1.6 billion. ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A Republican bill passed by the House Judiciary Committee today will turn millions of undocumented immigrants into criminals overnight, make communities less safe, and lead to increased racial profiling and discrimination, said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcomittee's Senior Democrat. The legislation, H.R. 1148, also known as "the SAFE Act," ignores the need to find solutions to our broken immigration system – which must include a path to earned permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants – and instead takes a deportation-only approach to immigration reform. H.R. 1148 could have far reaching negative consequences, including widespread discrimination based on race, ethnicity and national origin, decreased public safety in communities all around the country, and unconstitutional denials of due process to persons subjected to enforcement activities, including prolonged detention. Rep. Lofgren's full statement as prepared is below: "My colleagues who were on this Committee in the 113th Congress know that we marked up this bill under a different name: "the SAFE Act." At the time, the decision to take up this deportation-only bill may have seemed a bit surprising. "Following the 2012 election, the Republican National Committee issued a report concluding that the Republican party "must embrace and champion comprehensive immigration reform. If we do not, our Party's appeal will continue to shrink to its core constituencies only." A bipartisan group in the House was making solid progress on a sensible bill to reform our immigration system and the Senate had less than one week earlier begun debate on S. 744, a bipartisan immigration reform bill that ultimately passed by a supermajority (68-32). "Rather than embracing comprehensive immigration reform, the so-called "SAFE Act" took us in the exact opposite direction. "Knowing what we know now, it is hardly surprising that we are considering the bill once more. Last Congress, Republican leadership in the House squandered the opportunity to heed the advice of the RNC and the will of the American people, who overwhelmingly support immigration reform. For the first two months of this Congress they focused all of their attention on eliminating DACA and subjecting DREAMers once more to the threat of deportation, blocking the administration's efforts to offer temporary protection to deserving parents of American children, and preventing the administration from prioritizing the removal of serious criminals over farmworkers and nannies. "I say they have focused all of their attention on these efforts because it is this fixation that made it impossible to properly fund the Department of Homeland Security until just hours before funding ran out. And even then, the Department was funded over the objection of more than two-thirds of the House Republican conference. "Let me provide a little more context for today's markup. Almost 10 years ago, this Committee considered a bill that was similar to H.R. 1148 in many key respects. Like this bill, H.R. 4437 turned millions of undocumented immigrants into criminals overnight. Like this bill, H.R. 4437 turned State and local law enforcement officers around the country into immigration agents. Like this bill, H.R. 4437 expanded mandatory and prolonged detention, denied due process and judicial review, and ignored the problems of racial profiling and unlawful discrimination that were sure to result from the language in the bill. "Today, while the entire country is looking for solutions to our broken immigration system—which must include a path to earned permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants—this bill would instead turn those people into criminals. The bill makes "unlawful presence" a criminal offense and makes it a crime to overstay a visa by even a single day or to violate the terms of entry in even the most innocuous ways. "The country has considered and rejected mass deportation or self-deportation. Members of this Committee have admitted that is not realistic. So how can it make any more sense to imprison all of those people? "The bill also allows every State and locality to pass its own civil and criminal immigration laws. It is bad enough that the bill makes every undocumented immigrant guilty of two new Federal crimes. By allowing States and localities to pass similar criminal laws, the bill will make the situation infinitely worse. Not even H.R. 4437 did that. "Whereas the Supreme Court in the Arizona case explained the importance of Federal preemption by saying that "it is fundamental that foreign countries concerned about the status, safety, and security of their nationals in the United States must be able to confer and communicate on this subject with one national sovereign, not 50 separate states," by allowing every State, county and locality to implement, enact, and enforce their own immigration laws the SAFE Act would multiply that problem 100-fold. "The bill also gives every State and local law enforcement officer in the country authority to investigate, identify, arrest, and detain people pursuant to Federal, State, or local immigration laws. We all trust State and local police to enforce various laws, but that doesn't mean that when a highway patrol officer pulls someone over for speeding we want that officer to also request 3 years' worth of Form 1040s. Confirming a motorist's compliance with Federal tax laws is just beyond the scope of that encounter. It is also worth noting that Federal courts have recognized for decades that the immigration laws as "second only to the Internal Revenue Code in complexity. A lawyer is often the only person who could thread the labyrinth." Castro-O'Ryan v. INS, 821 F.2d 1415, 1419 (9th Cir. 1987). "Worse still, the bill authorizes such officers to issue their own detainers that would allow them to, according to the bill, hold in prison or jail any non-citizen who has "served a prison sentence under State or local law . . . until the Secretary can take the alien into custody." There is no limit on the duration of such detention. No requirement for probable cause or a hearing before a judge. In fact, the provision does not even suggest that the State or local law enforcement officer has to even believe that the non-citizen is removable from the country before issuing that detainer and depriving that person of liberty. "How many U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents are going to be subjected to racial profiling and unlawful detention as a result of these provisions? So much for believing in small government and individual liberty. Several founding members of the House Freedom Caucus are on this Committee and I hope we can hear their views on these provisions. "I believe we agree that our immigration system is broken and that we need a solution that respects the rule of law and our common humanity. "I believe we want to empower State and local law enforcement personnel to do their jobs, which means first and foremost keeping their communities safe. "I believe we want to respect the Constitution and ensure that people are not deprived of liberty without due process or as a result of racial profiling or other forms of discrimination. "Unfortunately H.R. 1148 simply fails to meet all of these shared beliefs. Instead, the bill takes us back in time to an approach that has long been rejected by the American people."
03.16.2015	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced a community forum and press conference on March 20th to update immigrants and the San Jose community about President Obama's executive actions on immigration, and to prepare families to apply for relief from deportation pending the availability of applications this year. Lofgren, the top Democrat on the House Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, will be joined by outspoken immigrant advocate Rep. Luiz V. Gutiérrez (D-Chicago) and Santa Clara County leaders. Confident that the President's actions are within well-established existing constitutional and statutory authority, Lofgren and Gutiérrez intend this event to counter confusion with reliable information for immigrant communities and South Bay Area residents. WHAT: Press ConferenceImmigration: Now and Next StepsAn update on Immigration Executive Action (DACA/DAPA)Eligibility workshops with trained leaders and advice on how to prepare for the application period. WHO: Rep. Zoe LofgrenRep. Luis V. GutiérrezSan Jose Mayor Sam LiccardoCalifornia Assemblymember Nora CamposSanta Clara County Supervisor Dave CorteseSanta Clara County Supervisor Cindy Chavez District Attorney Jeff RosenLocal officials in support of immigration action WHEN: 4:00 p.m.Friday, March 20th 2015 WHERE: School of Arts and CultureMexican Heritage Plaza1700 Alum Rock AveSan Jose, CA Members of the news media RSVP to Peter Whippy here. BACKGROUND: In November last year, President Obama announced a series of executive actions on immigration to help secure the border, prioritize deporting felons instead of families, and bring our broken immigration system into alignment with our national interests and values. A component of these actions are the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) program, which provides temporary deportation relief for certain parents of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents, and expansions to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which provides similar relief for DREAMers. Advisors will work with potential applicants to determine eligibility and help prepare necessary documentation to apply for relief from deportation. # # #
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D- Calif.) introduced legislation yesterday aimed to determine the relationship between school start times and adolescent health, well-being and performance. The bill – introduced during Sleep Awareness week, an annual public education and awareness campaign to promote the importance of sleep – comes on the heels of mounting evidence that adolescent students would greatly benefit from later start times. Research has increasingly shown that the natural biological sleep pattern of many adolescents is to go to sleep and wake up at later times. However, many of these students must wake up well before the sun rises to get ready for school, as many high schools in the United States start before 7:30 am. Lofgren has long supported and advocated for a later school start time, first introducing the Zzz's to A's Act in 1998, with subsequent versions throughout the past decade and a half. The Zzz's to A's Act, supported by the National Sleep Foundation (NSF) and Start School Later, Inc., directs the Secretary of Education to study the effects of later start times on secondary school students and submit findings and recommendations to Congress. "Students across the United States are not getting enough sleep at night – this affects not just their academic performance, but their health, safety, and well-being," said Lofgren. "We know that as kids become teens their biology keeps them from getting to sleep early, makes it harder for them to wake up early in the morning, and necessitates additional sleep at night. As I have long advocated, and as the American Academy of Pediatrics confirmed last year, adjusting school start times can be an important tool to improve students' health and performance. This study will help local school districts recognize and use new information about the importance of sufficient sleep and the impact that school start times can have on adolescent well-being." Last year a policy statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics concurred that delaying the start of school days may help teens get more rest and improve overall adolescent well-being, calling it "one of the most common – and easily fixable – public health issues in the U.S. today." Original cosponsors of the Zzz's to A's Act include Reps. Mike Honda (D-Calif.), Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Grace Napolitano (D-Calif.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), Gerald Connolly (D-Va.), Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.). # # #
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced legislation today to preserve the structural foundation of the Internet, bolster Internet commerce, and protect the free expression and privacy of all Internet users. The Global Free Internet Act – a part of Lofgren's Internet Freedom and Innovation legislative agenda – would create a task force to identify, prioritize, and develop a response to policies and practices of the U.S. government, foreign governments, or international bodies that deny fair market access to Internet-related goods and services, or that threaten the technical operation, security, and free flow of global Internet communications. "The Internet has been a spectacular success because it lowers barriers to free exchange and access and empowers people to connect and share information, which results in greater cultural exchange and economic growth," said Lofgren. "For the Internet to remain a powerful platform for innovation and prosperity, it is essential we address undue restrictions on Internet commerce and the global free flow of information." State governments and international bodies have, at times, promulgated threats like censorship of online content, country-specific technology standards that hinder interconnectedness, or burdensome requirements for market access. Recent examples include U.S. legislation such as SOPA, which would have broken secure DNS – or China's recent attempts to require security backdoors into financial products. The Task Force would hold public hearings, issue reports, and coordinate the activity of the U.S. government to respond to such domestic and international threats to the Internet. Original cosponsors of the Global Free Internet Act include Silicon Valley Reps. Anna Eshoo (D- Calif.) and Mike Honda (D-Calif.). Click here for a section-by-section summary of the Global Free Internet Act. # # #
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee is debating a bill today that – if passed – would "devastate the American agricultural economy, resulting in closed farms, a less-secure America, and the mass off-shoring of millions of U.S. jobs," said U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. The Legal Workforce Act, which mandates E-Verify for all employers in the United States, is strongly opposed by a wide array of interests, including agricultural associations and growers, organized labor, members of the small business community, civil liberties groups, religious organizations, privacy advocates, and immigration reform groups. While every serious comprehensive immigration reform proposal since 2006 has mandated the use of E-Verify by all employers, it is in the absence of broader reforms to fix our broken immigration system that this legislation will result in billions of dollars in lost government revenue, harm American workers, and stifle economic growth. Lofgren went on to note that expanding E-Verify absent meaningful immigration reform will also increase the deficit and decrease tax revenues by an estimated net revenue loss of $39 billion over ten years, and provides no protections for authorized workers who lose their jobs in error, or meaningful penalties for employers who do not allow employees to correct such errors. Despite having introduced the Legal Workforce Act in the past two Congresses, House Republicans have failed to advance the legislation due to opposition by a broad cross-section of organizations and Members of Congress.Lofgren's full opening statement as delivered is below:"The bill that we are considering today is not unfamiliar to many of us on the Committee. The Immigration Subcommittee has held many hearings over the years about E-Verify and the Committee has marked up the "Legal Workforce Act" in the last two Congresses. "Each time we mark this bill up it changes a little bit. When we marked up the Legal Workforce Act in the 112th Congress, the bill exempted returning seasonal farmworkers from having to be verified upon hire. This giant loophole came under attack from all sides. From the right, it was attacked as amnesty and from the left it was attacked as an admission that E-Verify alone would destroy our agricultural industry and the millions of jobs held by U.S. workers that are supported by that industry. The Committee struck this provision from the bill during markup. It continues to be omitted from the bill. "The version that we considered in the 112th Congress also created new criminal penalties for unlawful conduct that were both excessive and wasteful. In addition to imposing multiple mandatory minimum prison terms, the bill made it a felony punishable by up to 15 years in prison for a person to use a social security number that did not belong to him or her during the employment verification process. The version of the bill that we reported during the last Congress changed several of the criminal provisions pertaining to fraud and misuse of documents and contained no mandatory minimum prison terms. "The version that we considered in the 113th Congress contained changes to make E-Verify more workable for the Social Security Administration, which serves a number of other critically important functions, and the version that we are considering today contains two new provisions to relieve some of the burdens that small businesses are expected to face disproportionately once they are required to use E-Verify. I am sure that we will discuss small businesses more today, since they have been the heart of our economy and job recovery in recent years, but I did want to recognize the steps taken to address concerns that we raised during the last Congress. "Having said that, today's bill still contains several of the greatest flaws of the bill that we have addressed in past markups. "First, the bill continues to provide no meaningful due process protections for authorized workers who lose their jobs because of erroneous final non-confirmations. The idea that Americans and authorized immigrants will lose their jobs as a result of this bill is not simply theoretical Although we know that the government continues to work hard to reduce error rates in E-Verify, errors absolutely still exist. "USCIS testified before the Immigration Subcommittee last Congress that an estimated 0.3 percent of the authorized workers—that's U.S. citizens and others—receive tentative non-confirmations through the system and must follow up with DHS or the Social Security Administration in order to avoid losing their jobs. Now, a 0.3 percent error rate sounds very small, but the real-world impact on new and existing hires could be quite dramatic. By requiring verification of all newly hired workers (approximately 54 million people each year) and permitting reverification of all current workers (approximately 155 million), a 0.3 percent error rate would place between 162,000 to 465,000 American citizens and authorized non-citizens at risk of losing their jobs or job opportunities due to errors. "And while the error rate for U.S. citizens continues to improve, the error rate for non-citizens has been constant and disproportionately high. Westat Corporation reported in 2012 that the error rate for U.S. citizens in FY09 was 0.2 percent. For permanent residents the error rate was 0.7 percent and for all other work authorized non-citizens it was 4.2 percent. "Of course many of these people will be able to correct the erroneous tentative non-confirmation, but many will not. Without adequate due process protections, people will lose their jobs incorrectly and be without meaningful recourse. "The bill also provides no penalties at all for employers who violate the requirement that they inform an employee about a tentative non-confirmation so that the employee can correct the error. Although USCIS now provides direct notice of such non-confirmations to persons who provide an email address on their Form I-9s, only 12 percent of all tentative non-confirmations issued in FY14 were provided to employees via email. The vast majority were provided only to employers, which means the ability of an employee who receives an erroneous tentative non-confirmation to correct the error and avoid termination rests solely in the hands of those employers. The absence of any consequences for an employer who fails to provide notice to a worker renders that notice requirement completely toothless. "Finally, the point that I hope every Member understands is that we can only advance a bill like this together with other necessary reforms to our broken immigration system. We could design the best E-Verify system imaginable—a system that is easy to use, 100% accurate, and available at virtually no cost to big and small businesses alike. But if we imposed that system nationwide and did nothing to fix our broken immigration system the consequences would be disastrous. "This point is most easily demonstrated when we consider that 50 to 70% of farm workers are undocumented. Without reform, expanding E-Verify would devastate the agricultural economy, resulting in closed farms, a less-secure America, and the mass off-shoring of millions and millions of U.S. jobs, including all of the upstream and downstream jobs created and supported by agriculture. "Expanding E-Verify alone would also increase the deficit and decrease tax revenues. Last Congress, the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation concluded that the Legal Workforce Act would have resulted in a net revenue loss of $39 billion over ten years. So I will ask unanimous consent to place the rest of my statement in the record, Mr. Chairman. But I would just note that when it comes to Agriculture, - If you do E-Verify, you're going to find something out we already know- the workers are undocumented and we need them, and if they are forced to leave, Agriculture will collapse. And I yield back." # # #
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement after the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) passed new rules to protect net neutrality and an open internet: "Today's FCC vote is a victory for a free and open internet. More than four million public comments received by the FCC left no doubt the public supports strong net neutrality rules. Today it is apparent the Commission listened to the overwhelming grassroots public sentiment. "These new protections, including reclassification of broadband services under Title II authority, will likely face years of litigation by incumbent telecom and cable opponents. However, I am convinced that these rules comprise the strongest approach to preserving and guarding the internet as we know it. With this vote, the FCC has finally recognized – as Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia did a decade ago – that classifying broadband as anything other than a telecommunications service is "an implausible reading of the statute, [that] exceeded the authority given it by Congress." It is also important to note that the rules set forward today emphasize restraint and forbear from burdensome regulations unnecessary for achieving an open and competitive internet. "Banning the practices of blocking legal content, throttling, or prioritizing Internet traffic based on source, application, or content, will bolster innovation, entrepreneurship, and investment in broadband across the nation and around the world. Reclassification will also provide a measure of stability in broadband that has been lacking for many years, and grant new broadband competitors right of way access reducing deployment costs of innovative new technologies like fiber optic broadband. Large technology companies, small app developers, movie and television writers, public advocacy organizations, and the public at large all stand to gain from today's vote. "Finally, I'm also pleased the FCC chose to remove municipal broadband barriers to competition today. This decision will be indispensable in allowing greater access to broadband in areas with inadequate or nonexistent service." Lofgren wrote to the FCC last October calling on the Commission to reclassify broadband internet access service under Title II with regulation strictly limited to net neutrality. # # #
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a House Judiciary Committee Hearing today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) warned of the potential consequences of a Republican-led Department of Homeland Security shutdown, and laid out the clear constitutional and statutory authority of President Obama's Immigrant Accountability Executive Actions. Lofgren, the Ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today during the House Judiciary Committee hearing titled "The Unconstitutionality of Obama's Executive Actions on Immigration" Text as delivered:"The 113th Congress is considered to have been one of the most do-nothing Congresses in history. The biggest symbol of the Republicans' failure to govern was the unnecessary and irresponsible shutdown that lasted from October 1 through October 16. Federal employees were furloughed for a combined total of 6.6 million days, $2 billion was spent on payroll to these furloughed employees for work that they were prevented from doing, the recovering economy took a hit, and millions of Americans were denied access to programs and services that they rely on. "Perhaps it is fitting, then, that the 113th Congress ended with the so-called CRomnibus — a spending bill that promised to yet again put us on the path toward a government shutdown. "We're only two months into the 114th Congress, but already it seems like the Republican majority in the House and Senate is trying to outdo itself. For the past 6 weeks, rather than proceed with the DHS funding bill that Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate agreed to last year, Republican leaders in the House and Senate have insisted that funding be contingent on a series of poison-pill immigration riders demanded by the most extreme Members and supported by all but a few. "Since the CRomnibus was first hatched, many Republicans have argued that the President acted unconstitutionally on November 20, when he and the Secretary of Homeland Security announced a series of measures designed to bring a measure of sense to our broken immigration system. We have been told these measures cannot be permitted to take effect. "Last week, of course, a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction halting two of those measures: the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability and the expansion of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. These efforts are designed to offer temporary protection from deportation to certain parents of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents and to DREAMers with long ties to our country. "The Department of Justice this week requested a stay of the injunction and noticed an appeal. The matter is firmly in the hands of the federal courts, the branch of government that the Constitution entrusts to settle disputes arising under the Constitution and the laws of the United States. "Some people—including some Republicans in the House and Senate—have speculated that a court injunction would convince Republican leadership to stop holding the spending bill hostage. What we have seen over the past two weeks, however, is that many Republicans are even more determined to take us over a cliff and once more shut down the government. "Several points are worth noting. "First, we continue to hear Republicans minimize the impact of a shutdown on national security by arguing that 85% of DHS employees were deemed "essential" during the last government shutdown. I just can't understand how we in Congress would take comfort at the idea of forcing Border Patrol agents to secure our borders, Coast Guard personnel to patrol the seas, and ICE officers and agents to conduct law enforcement investigations and secure detention facilities without receiving their paychecks. It is unconscionable, really. "Further, it's bizarre that we will defund the E-verify program, stop the immigration enforcement efforts, but at the same time, because they're fee supported – the processing of immigration petitions will be unimpeded. So the effort stops immigration enforcement efforts but does nothing to actually stop the processing of immigration petitions. "Second, since we know the Court already temporarily halted implementation of DAPA and expanded DACA, it is important to remember what other initiatives congressional Republicans are trying to block as part of the DHS funding: They voted overwhelmingly to eliminate the DACA program itself, stripping protection from more than 600,000 DREAM Act kids and subjecting them once more to deportation. They voted to prevent DHS from implementing a new enforcement strategy along our southern border and creating three new law enforcement Task Forces. They voted to block DHS and DOD from working together to ensure that U.S. citizens who wish to enlist in the military would be able to do so notwithstanding immigration status of close relatives. And they voted to stop DHS from taking important steps to capitalize on the talents of entrepreneurs, to help companies attract and retain highly-skilled immigrants, and to promote citizenship. Just yesterday, USCIS issued a final rule extending work authorization to the spouses of certain H-1B visa holders who are beneficiaries of an approved employment-based immigrant visa petition. If the appropriations bill passed by the House were to have become law, USCIS would have been prevented from finalizing that rule. "Republicans don't talk about the fact that they are refusing to fund DHS unless they block each of these efforts but that is what they voted to do. "Turning to today's hearing, I note that although the title of this hearing – as has been mentioned – presumes that the president's executive actions are unconstitutional, no court—including the Texas District Court that issued the preliminary injunction—has found that these actions unconstitutional. In fact, a challenge to the original DACA program brought by the State of Mississippi was thrown out of court for lack of standing and a challenge to the administration's recent executive actions brought by Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio also was dismissed for lack of standing. "Of course, I am disappointed by the court's ruling and I know millions of American families across the country are also greatly disappointed. Still, I expect that both programs will be upheld as fully within the president's legal authority by appellate courts. "I say this because there is ample legal and historical precedent supporting the President's actions. The Supreme Court has long recognized the administration's authority to exercise prosecutorial discretion when enforcing our immigration laws and has specifically recognized that granting deferred action is a legitimate exercise of that authority. Congress directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish national enforcement policies and priorities and policies and empowered the Secretary to perform acts that "he deems necessary" for carrying out his authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act. "Every year Congress gives the administration only enough money to apprehend, detain, and remove a fraction of the people in this country who are removable and additionally directs the Department to prioritize the removal of people with criminal convictions based on the severity of the offense. "Although the Texas court's ruling seems to turn on the fact that DACA recipients may apply for work authorization and Social Security cards, it fails to acknowledge that the legal authority for granting work authorization and Social Security cards is entirely distinct from the authority to grant deferred action, and in fact, is statutorial. All of those authorities long pre-dated DACA and Congress has never taken any action to limit the administration's discretion in these areas. "This is arguably the fourth hearing, Mr. Chairman we have held on the legal authority for the president's actions on immigration. "I will conclude by saying the Courts will ultimately decide whether the Administration's programs can take effect. It is our responsibility to reform the law and it would be irresponsible of us to shut the government down. "We should allow the courts to do their job, and we should do our own." # # #
02.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Jr.(D-Mich.), Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ranking Member on the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today after a federal district court issued a preliminary injunction against Department of Homeland Security immigration directives issued in November 2014. "While we are disappointed by yesterday's ruling, and believe the Court failed to follow strong legal precedent, it's important to remember that this is just the first step in a long process, and is not a ruling on the merits of the case. "We believe that, upon swift appeal to the Fifth Circuit, the Court will find the Department of Homeland Security acted within well-established existing constitutional and statutory authority to prioritize enforcement resources, increase border security, and ensure accountability in our broken immigration system." The injunction temporarily halts implementation of the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) program, which provides temporary deportation relief for certain parents of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents, and expansions to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which provides similar relief for DREAMers. A district court in Washington, D.C. dismissed a similar lawsuit filed by Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio earlier this year, noting that deferred action programs are a well-established exercise of enforcement discretion and are consistent with, rather than contrary to, congressional policy. The court also concluded that the breadth of the deferred action programs was valid. # # #
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement today after Federal Communication Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler proposed new rules to govern broadband service: "The record breaking number of comments received by the FCC left no doubt that the public supports strong net neutrality rules. I'm pleased Commissioner Wheeler has recognized that public sentiment today and put forward a good plan to use Title II authority to implement and enforce open internet protections. "These protections, including bans on blocking, throttling, or prioritizing Internet traffic based on source, application, or content, will bolster innovation and self-expression across the nation and around the world. Large technology companies, small app developers, movie and television writers, public advocacy organizations, and the public at large all stand to benefit from a free and open internet. "Additionally, I am pleased the Chairman has put forth a plan that emphasizes restraint – forbearing from regulations unnecessary for achieving an open and competitive internet. "I look forward to a swift consideration of the Chairman's proposal by the full Commission." Lofgren wrote to the FCC last October calling on the Commission to reclassify broadband internet access service under Title II with regulation strictly limited to net neutrality.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan lawmakers today reintroduced the Secure Data Act to protect Americans' privacy and data security by prohibiting surveillance agencies from requiring or compelling surveillance "backdoors" in products and services. A similar amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act last year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 293-123 vote. This amendment was not included in the CRomnibus. U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.), Thomas Massie (R- Ky.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), sponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2015, issued the following statement: "Congress has allowed the Administration's surveillance authorities to go unchecked by failing to enact adequate reform. Last Congress, the Massie-Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment garnered support from an overwhelming bi-partisan majority in the House as a provision to the Defense Appropriations bill, but unfortunately, was not included in the CRomnibus. With threats to our homeland ever prevalent, we should not tie the hands of the intelligence community. But unwarranted, backdoor surveillance is indefensible. The Secure Data Act is an important step in rebuilding public trust in our intelligence agencies and striking the appropriate balance between national security and civil liberty." It has been widely reported that US intelligence and law enforcement agencies have requested or required individuals and organizations build a "backdoor" into their product or service to assist in unwarranted electronic surveillance. However, on more than one occurrence, major security flaws have been found in these "backdoors" that put the data security of every person and business using the internet at risk. For example, a software testing firm found serious backdoor vulnerabilities in wiretapping software for law enforcement made by Israeli software firm NICE Systems in 2013 that allowed hackers to completely compromise their system and listen to intercepted phone calls. If a backdoor is created for law enforcement and intelligence surveillance, past experience has shown it's only a matter of time before hackers exploit it too. These "backdoors" can also be detrimental to American jobs. Other countries buy less American hardware and software and favor their domestic suppliers in order to avoid compromised American products. The Secure Data Act fixes this by prohibiting any agency from requesting or compelling backdoors in services and products to assist with electronic surveillance. ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) introduced legislation today aimed to shed light on the breadth of overreaching government surveillance programs. The Surveillance Order Reporting Act will enable companies to publicly estimate the number of surveillance orders they receive from government agencies under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and national security letters, and how many of their users are affected by those demands for information. Currently, companies are barred from disclosing even basic information about the requests they receive. This lack of information impedes informed public debate, undermines user trust in Internet services, and has led to strained relationships between U.S. companies and international business partners. "Without an accurate grasp on the scope of surveillance, it's impossible to have an intelligent debate on the issue here in Congress," said Lofgren. "It's clear we need to provide greater transparency to the public and allow Internet and telecommunications companies to preserve global confidence in their services. This bill is a much-needed step in allowing Internet companies to publicly provide information on how many surveillance orders they receive and how many of their users are affected." "Transparency between the federal government and the American people is critical," said Chaffetz. "Consumers should not have to jump through hoops in order to identify where their personal information is being shared. This legislation will paint a more accurate picture of how each company is sharing information." The Surveillance Order Reporting Act is designed to authorize companies to release more detailed information to the public while avoiding danger to national security. Specifically, the bill provides that: Internet and telecommunications companies may report an estimated number of surveillance orders received, the estimated number of orders complied with, and the estimated number of users and accounts on whom information is requested or provided. The reports may include the number of users affected by requests that carry over though multiple reporting periods. The numbers reported may be in a range of 100, rounded to the nearest 100s (i.e., 1-100, 100-200, etc.). The reports may be made quarterly or in larger time periods (i.e., annually, semi-annually, etc.) Service providers are not subject to criminal or civil liability for making reports they reasonably believe are authorized by the bill. The bill does not prohibit other disclosures authorized by law. Click here for a detailed summary of the legislation. # # #
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Lawmakers introduced bipartisan legislation today updating a decades old communications privacy law to better shield Internet users and wireless subscribers from overly broad government surveillance programs. The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act, introduced by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ted Poe (R- Texas), and Suzan DelBene (D- Wash.), modernizes the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) by requiring government agencies to obtain a search warrant based on probable cause prior to intercepting or forcing disclosure of electronic communications or geolocation data. The 1986 law – intended to set legal standards that law enforcement agencies must meet to access electronic communications – has failed to keep pace with rapidly evolving technology, leading to weak and convoluted privacy protections from government access to user data. As consumers and businesses increasingly use cloud computing and location-based services, the law's standards no longer reflect the way these services are used today, nor adequately protect Americans' right to privacy. "Fourth Amendment protections don't stop at the Internet, and Americans rightly expect Constitutional protections to extend to their online communications and location data," Lofgren said. "Establishing a warrant standard for government access to cloud and geolocation provides Americans with the privacy protections they expect, and would enable service providers to build greater trust with their users and global trading partners." "Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. Whether an individual's property is physical or digital, it must be protected from snooping government eyes, as required under the Fourth Amendment. It's time for Washington to modernize this outdated legislation and protect individual privacy," said Poe. "Advances in technology and the Internet have dramatically changed the way we communicate, live and work. In this constantly evolving world, Congress must be a good steward of policy to ensure our laws at least keep pace," said DelBene. "When current law affords more protections for a letter in a filing cabinet than an email on a server, it's clear our policies are outdated. This bill will update privacy protections for consumers while resolving competing interests between innovation, international competitiveness and public safety." As currently written, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act does not clearly require law enforcement to obtain a warrant to access the content of Americans' online communication – instead, ECPA permits law enforcement to access content with a mere subpoena if the content is more than 180 days old. ECPA also fails to include any clear standards for law enforcement access to location information, such as tracking an individual's cell phone location. The unclear and complex standards have led to confusion in U.S. courts, a significant compliance burden for businesses, a competitive disadvantage with international businesses in countries with stronger laws against government access, and inadequate privacy for Americans. The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act fixes ECPA by applying Constitutional privacy guarantees under the Fourth Amendment to an individual's digital communications and location data while minimizing the impact on law enforcement investigations. The bill will: Require the government to obtain a warrant to access to wire or electronic communications content; Require the government to obtain a warrant to intercept or force service providers to disclose geolocation data; Preserve exceptions for emergency situations, foreign intelligence surveillance, individual consent, public information, and emergency assistance; Prohibit service providers from disclosing a user's geolocation information to the government in the absence of a warrant or exception; Prohibit the use of unlawfully obtained geolocation information as evidence; Provide for administrative discipline and a civil cause of action if geolocation information is unlawfully intercepted or disclosed. Click here for a section-by-section summary of the Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act.
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in support of the Departments of Education and Justice's joint guidance released this week reminding states, school districts and schools of their obligations under federal law to ensure that English language learners have equal access to a high-quality education. "This guidance is a promising step towards helping ensure that schools are doing all they can to support English language learners," said Lofgren. "Diversity is one of our greatest attributes in the South Bay, and the success of our community is dependent on the success of all of our students, regardless of their background. This guidance will be a useful tool to our schools as they work towards that goal" The guidance explains schools' obligations to: - identify English learner students in a timely, valid and reliable manner; - offer all English learner students an educationally sound language assistance program; - provide qualified staff and sufficient resources for instructing English learner students; - ensure English learner students have equitable access to school programs and activities; - avoid unnecessary segregation of English learner students from other students; - monitor students' progress in learning English and doing grade-level classwork; - remedy any academic deficits English learner students incurred while in a language assistance program; - move students out of language assistance programs when they are proficient in English and monitor those students to ensure they were not prematurely removed; - evaluate the effectiveness of English learner programs; and - provide limited English proficient parents with information about school programs, services, and activities in a language they understand. # # #
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today calling for meaningful cybersecurity reforms following the re-introduction of the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA): "I'm glad the House is demonstrating an interest in exploring ways in which the nation can better protect against cyber-attacks. This is, no doubt, a very important issue – and our nation faces a security threat that has been made even more apparent in light of highly publicized cyber-attacks in recent months. "However, I fear we may have taken the wrong lesson from these recent high-profile attacks. These attacks were not the result of a missed opportunity to share information, but rather caused by substantial and obvious security failures and a culture of treating cybersecurity as an after-thought. CISPA would do little good in light of these much larger failings—in fact, CISPA's astonishingly broad and overly vague information sharing regime does more harm than good when it comes to Americans' privacy. "Rather than introducing a bill which would allow private entities to share personal information, including the content of emails, for vaguely defined ‘cybersecurity purposes,' we should be looking to promote proper cybersecurity practices as a foundational pillar of modern businesses. "If we truly wish to protect the nation against cyber-attacks through information sharing, we should encourage the government to disclose the previously unknown hardware, software and network vulnerabilities it discovers that leave our private companies vulnerable to bad actors. "We should also look to legislation like the Secure Data Act, introduced last Congress, which closes government mandated backdoors that intentionally undermine and undercut the development and deployment of strong data security technologies, leaving them insecure and ripe for abuse. Doing so would bolster national security, economic security, personal privacy, and rebuild public trust." ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Eighteen California Lawmakers urged California Attorney General Kamala Harris today to reject the sale of six hospitals in the Daughters of Charity Health System to Prime Healthcare Services, a controversial for-profit system that has a history of unfair business practices.The letter, led by U.S. Reps. Mike Honda (D- San Jose) and Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose), and signed by eighteen California Members of Congress, cites serious concerns that "under Prime, patient care and healthcare worker rights will suffer at these hospitals." The letter goes on to note that Prime's history of unfair business practices "have resulted in civil and criminal investigations by government agencies for allegedly overbilling Medicare as well as violations of patient confidentiality." Furthermore, California's need for additional safety net hospitals as a result of the expanded Medi-Cal services provided under the Affordable Care Act "is incompatible with Prime's business model of minimizing the amount of care it delivers to low-income patients." Prime Healthcare Services has a long and troubling history of cutting services, raising prices, and laying off workers. The questionable history of Prime Healthcare combined with the mission of these hospitals to serve the most-needy residents raises substantial doubts as to the sensibility of this sale. California Attorney General Kamala Harris may reject the sale based on any factors found relevant, including: whether the sale is in the public interest; whether it would create significant effects on the availability of health care services in the community; or whether the proposed use of the proceeds from the transaction is consistent with the charitable trust under which the hospitals have operated. Reps. Honda and Lofgren were joined by Representatives Sam Farr (D- Carmel), Mark Takano (D- Riverside), Janice Hahn (D- San Pedro), Anna G. Eshoo (D- Palo Alto), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D- Los Angeles), Xavier Becerra (Los Angeles), Doris O. Matsui (D- Sacramento), Tony Cardenas (D- San Fernando Valley), Jackie Speier (D- San Francisco/San Mateo Counties), Barbara Lee (D- Oakland), Loretta Sanchez (D- Garden Grove), Juan Vargas (D- San Diego) Mike Thompson (D- St. Helena), George Miller (D- Martinez), Alan Lowenthal (D- Long Beach), and Maxine Waters (D- Los Angeles).Full text of the letter is below: December 11, 2014 The Honorable Kamala D. Harris Attorney General, California Department of Justice Office of the Attorney General 1300 I Street Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Attorney General Harris: We the undersigned members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation respectfully urge the Office of the Attorney General to reject the sale of six hospitals in the Daughters of Charity Health System to Prime Healthcare Services. With six hospitals throughout California, all of our constituents have a public health and cost-shift stake in what happens with this proposed acquisition. It is our belief that under Prime, patient care and healthcare worker rights will suffer at these hospitals. Our biggest concern is Prime's history of unfair business practices that have resulted in civil and criminal investigations by government agencies for allegedly overbilling Medicare as well as violations of patient confidentiality. The National Labor Relations Board has issued charges against Prime for such illegal practices as unilaterally cutting employee health insurance plans, interrogating and intimidating employees who are supportive of their union, bad faith bargaining and bribing employees to vote to decertify the union. Class action and wage and hour violation lawsuits have been filed against Prime at 11 of their 15 California hospitals. We would also note that California today needs more safety net hospitals than ever, given that over 2 million Californians have signed up for expanded Medi-Cal under the Affordable Care Act. This growing Medi-Cal need is incompatible with Prime's business model of minimizing the amount of care it delivers to low-income patients. In closing, we do not believe an acquisition of Daughters of Charity hospitals by Prime is in the best interests of patients or healthcare workers in California. Given Prime's troubled past and regulatory problems, and its incompatibility with the historic safety net mission of Daughters, we urge you to protect the rights of patients and healthcare workers by rejecting this proposed sale. Sincerely, U.S. Representatives Mike Honda, Zoe Lofgren, Sam Farr, Mark Takano, Janice Hahn, Anna G. Eshoo, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Xavier Becerra, Doris O. Matsui, Tony Cardenas, Jackie Speier, Barbara Lee, Loretta Sanchez, Juan Vargas, Mike Thompson, George Miller, Alan Lowenthal, and Maxine Waters. # # #
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of bipartisan lawmakers last week introduced H.R. 5800, the Secure Data Act of 2014, to protect Americans' privacy and data security by prohibiting surveillance agencies from requiring or compelling surveillance "backdoors" in products and services. A similar amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act this year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 293-123 vote, but it was not included in the Continuing Resolution (CR)/omnibus spending legislation. U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.), Thomas Massie (R- Ky.),and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), sponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2014, issued the following statement: "Thus far, Congress has failed to rein in the Administration's surveillance authorities and protect Americans' civil liberties. Nevertheless, the Massie-Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment established an important record in the full House of Representatives—an overwhelming majority will no longer tolerate the status quo. Unwarranted and backdoor surveillance is untenable, and as Congress turns to address a multitude of expiring surveillance programs in the 114th Congress, the House will not allow unwarranted surveillance without meaningful reform. The Secure Data Act defends Americans' constitutional rights and is an important next step in closing backdoor surveillance and rebuilding public trust in our intelligence agencies." Original cosponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2014 include Reps. Justin Amash (R-Mich.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Rush Holt (D- N.J.), Jerrold Nadler (D- N.Y.), Beto O'Rourke (D- Texas), Ted Poe (R- Texas).
12.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – In a House Judiciary hearing today, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) called on House Republicans to end their uninformed and unwarranted criticism of President Obama's Immigrant Accountability Executive Actions and instead work towards passing meaningful comprehensive immigration reform. H.R. 15, a bipartisan and comprehensive compromise bill, would pass the House today if it Republican leadership allowed a vote.Lofgren is the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. Her full statement during the House Judiciary Committee hearing titled "President Obama's Executive Overreach on Immigration" is below. Text:"Thank you Mr. Chairman. When President Obama spoke from the East Wing of the White House two weeks ago about the steps he would take to improve our broken immigration system he was responding to loud and sustained calls for action from people all over the country. "He can't change the law, but he can take certain actions within the law. "The President recognized what we all know: our immigration system is badly broken. Millions of families face the threat of separation by deportation every day—parents from children, husbands from wives. Entrepreneurs and highly skilled immigrants from around the world want to drive innovation and create jobs and opportunities here, but instead we erect barriers and make them to go elsewhere to create their companies. Farmers rely on the work of undocumented immigrants to support their industry, we all rely on their food – I was thinking with my family at Thanksgiving how much we have to be grateful for – but I'm not grateful that the farmworkers who put that food on our table are living in fear. "Before I entered public service I practiced and taught immigration law. And throughout my 20 years in Congress I have worked across the aisle to enact sensible immigration reforms, and we have come close several times. "In 2006, the Senate passed a bipartisan bill, but the House Republicans squandered the opportunity to close the deal and instead passed an enforcement-only bill. "Last year, the Senate again passed a bipartisan immigration reform bill that brought historic adversaries: the Chamber and AFL-CIO, growers and farm workers, everybody together with 68 votes in the Senate and again we did nothing here on the House side. In fact, I was part of our own group of eight here in the House where we tried to craft a bipartisan House bill, and we did actually write a bill but in the end we were unable to move forward. "So it was only in the face of Congressional inaction that the President decided to do something. He recognized that there are costs to doing nothing and he looked for opportunities that are permitted in current law to avoid some of the costs. There are many things the President can't do to fix our immigration system and nothing the President did either alleviates the need for legislative action or prevents Congress from acting. "Now, the focus of the President's legal authority is allegedly the topic of this hearing, and I think it is important to remember that the President announced reforms in many different parts of the immigration system, including a new strategy to focus enforcement along the southern border, pay reforms for ICE personnel, several different efforts to make the immigration system work better for entrepreneurs – I haven't heard anybody complaining about those efforts of the President. No, it's only about the families of American citizen children. This talk of executive overreach really is about deporting – I think – the parents of US citizen children and I think it's a darn shame. "By this point, much has already been said about the legal authority going back to, really, Eisenhower in the 50s, every President has used the similar or same authority in the immigration context. The authority stems from the President's constitutional duty to "take care that the Laws be faithfully executed." In Heckler v. Chaney, the Supreme Court explained that this duty does not require the President to "act against each technical violation" of the law. And when the Supreme Court in Arizona v. United States struck down the majority of Arizona's SB1070 law, the Court specifically reaffirmed that: "broad discretion" exercised by federal immigration officials extends to: "whether it makes sense to pursue removal at all." "In 1999, Members of Congress from both parties—including members who still serve on this Committee—wrote to then-Attorney General Janet Reno and asked her to issue "specific instructions" to guide in the use of prosecutorial discretion. Several years later, Congress in Homeland Security Act specifically directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to "establish national immigration enforcement policies and priorities." That is precisely what Secretary Johnson has done. "Now to the Family Fairness program, which serves as an important historical precursor to the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability program: President Reagan's Family Fairness program, was announced at a 1987 hearing before the House Immigration Subcommittee and it offered protection from deportation to certain spouses and children of persons who were legalized in the 1986 Act. When the program was expanded under George H.W. Bush in 1990, the INS Commissioner estimated that as many as 1.5 million people would be eligible for protection from deportation and work authorization. "I heard the Chairman's comments about Pinocchio's and the Washington Post – but I recently discovered two documents that I would ask unanimous consent to put into the record. The first is the decision memo that announced the Family Fairness Policy, dated February 8, 1990 where the Department estimates that the Family Fairness Policy provides voluntary departure and employment authorization to potentially millions of immigrants. And the other document, also dated February 8, 1990, which indicates that the intent or expectation is that greater than 1 million IRCA-ineligible family members will file for the benefit. "Now when, then-Commissioner McNary stated in 1990 that the program would begin, he said "it is vital that we enforce the law against illegal entry. However, we can enforce the law humanely. To split families encourages further violations of the law as they reunite." He understood that a smart enforcement strategy also can be a humane enforcement strategy. That is no different than today. "If there is one key difference between the Family Fairness program and the deferred action program announced by the President last month, it is that Presidents Reagan and Bush offered protection to people who were knowingly and intentionally denied protection by Congress when they passed the 1986 Act. By contrast, the President is now acting in the face of historic intransigence by House Republicans, who will—if no action is taken by the end of this month—have wasted two opportunities in 8 years to advance immigration reform bills. "The President's actions are lawful. They are also smart, because they will allow DHS to focus limited resources on serious criminals, recent arrivals, and gang members. Finally, they are consistent with basic American values, like accountability, family unity, and compassion. "I would note that HR15 is sponsored by 201 Members, both Democrats and Republicans. There is still time to take this bill to the Floor for a vote and I hope that Republicans will do so. "Finally, I just want to respond very briefly to the argument and the video that we saw of the President making various comments about the limits of his authority. I guess – if the President had said multiple times that 5 + 5 = 15, and then he finally said 5 + 5 = 10, he would not be wrong when he finally said 5 + 5 = 10. "Second, the timing of the President's statements were important. All of those statements were made before March – those statements were made before the President asked the Secretary of Homeland Security to do a complete review of the immigration system to see what could be fixed administratively, which resulted in his memorandums and resulted the formal opinion of the Office of Legal Counsel. "Finally, as we will see throughout this hearing, the legal question isn't even a close one. The President has clear legal authority to defer removals when it's in the national interest. Chief Justice Roberts reaffirmed that principle just two years ago – our immigration laws recognize this authority – past Presidents have used this authority regularly. Our President is doing so now and I, for one, am grateful that he is, and I yield back. # # #
11.20.2014	Lofgren: Tech sector will benefit from President's action WASHINGTON, DC – Following the President's announced actions to administratively reform aspects of the nation's employment-based immigration system, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, commended his progress and pushed for further actions to benefit the tech sector and the American economy. "The President's commitment today to reform our employment-based immigration system has been a long time coming for the technology sector. "For years, I have championed many of these changes in my Immigration Driving Entrepreneurship in America (IDEA) Act. I know they will help ?spur entrepreneurship and growth, modernize our outdated immigration system and drive innovation in Silicon Valley and throughout the nation. Whether accomplished legislatively or through the administration's own existing authority, the result of these changes will be a marked improvement for the economy, the tech sector and the American people. "As encouraging as the President's actions are, they fall short of solving all the unique problems with our broken immigration system the tech sector faces. There still remain some meaningful actions the President can take under his existing legal authority that will benefit American workers and the American economy. I will continue to push hard for these actions. Ultimately, however, the job of fixing our immigration laws is the responsibility of Congress, and one which I remain steadfastly committed to seeing realized."
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) applauded an Administration announcement today to temporarily protect some West African nationals currently in the United States from deportation to countries critically affected by the Ebola virus. "I applaud the Administration for applying lawful authority to protect Americans and foreign nationals alike from a deeply troubling humanitarian crisis, the worst recorded Ebola outbreak to date. Just as the administration granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitian nationals following the deadly 2010 earthquake, granting TPS to people from Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone is the right thing to do. Protection will prevent nationals from these three West African countries from returning to a region grappling with an ongoing crisis. It will protect human lives and avoid exacerbating an already challenging situation." The temporary protected status will affect approximately 8,000 eligible nationals of Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone. In order to receive temporary protected status, applicants must undergo thorough security checks and satisfy stringent eligibility criteria. # # #
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today in support of President Obama's commitment to improve the nation's immigration system and urged additional action to protect farmworkers and parents of DREAMers from deportation. Lofgren is the Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. "I applaud President Obama for promising today to take action that will improve our nation's immigration system. This is an important step towards ensuring that millions of families in America can live without fear of needless separation and deportation, and a promise that will improve our communities and our economy. In particular, for the up to 5 million families directly impacted by today's announcement, this comes as a tremendously welcome and historic reprieve. "I hope the President will build on this significant step by fully exercising his legal authority to also protect from deportation the parents of DREAMers and the hard-working farmworkers who put food on our tables and support the agricultural industry that is so important to our nation's economy. "Likewise, I hope my colleagues in Congress will build on this occasion by advancing legislation to mend our nation's broken immigration laws. Lasting and meaningful reform requires legislation, but to date, Republicans in Congress have shown they are unwilling or incapable of advancing serious reform. Until that time, the President should exercise every lawful authority at his disposal to improve our broken immigration system, spur entrepreneurship and growth, and improve the lives of Americans and immigrants alike." # # #
10.30.2014	Univision published today an op-ed authored by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez and Zoe Lofgren outlining why President Obama has existing legal authority and historic precedence through executive action to help reform the nation's broken immigration system. Link to op-ed (both Spanish and English text available): http://noticias.univision.com/article/2142984/2014-10-30/inmigracion/noticias/congresistas-democratas-urgen-a-obama-que-tome-acciones-ejecutivas-migratoriasAs Presidents before Him, Obama Has Authority to Act By Nancy Pelosi, Luis V. Gutiérrez & Zoe Lofgren Last year, the Senate passed a bipartisan measure to repair our broken immigration system and strengthen our economy. That bill would be law today, but Republican leaders in the House refused to allow a vote. Consequently, President Obama promised to use his authority under existing law to achieve reform. We do not know exactly what the President will do or when he will announce it, but we are confident he will act. Some Republicans claim the President has no authority to act, but they are wrong. The fact is, just as presidents before him, President Obama has broad authority to make our immigration system better meet the needs of our country and reflect our shared values. And every Administration since President Dwight D. Eisenhower has used executive authority to do just that. In addition to taking steps to make our immigration enforcement efforts more humane, there are dozens of reforms that the President can adopt. Two that could have the greatest impact involve the expanded use of his deferred action and "parole" authorities. Presidents have broad authority to defer removal when it is in the national interest, and past presidents have regularly used this authority. In the years immediately following the enactment of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush took bold action to protect the spouses and children of people who received status under that law. Although Congress explicitly chose not to grant status to these people – an estimated 1.5 million people – Presidents Reagan and Bush recognized that it was not in the national interest to separate families. Using their authority to establish a "Family Fairness" program, they offered spouses and children indefinite protection from deportation and work authorization. Presidents have used this authority repeatedly in the face of congressional inaction. Dating back more than 50 years, presidents have granted Extended Voluntary Departure to nationals of more than a dozen countries, including Cuba, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Chile, Poland, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Uganda. President George H.W. Bush granted Deferred Enforced Departure to Chinese nationals after the Tiananmen Square massacre even though he vetoed a similar bill passed by Congress. Several years later he granted the same status to 200,000 Salvadorans. Likewise, President Obama could defer action against persons who would be covered by the Senate-passed bill that Republicans blocked. Like Presidents Reagan and Bush, he could use his authority to prevent family separation – this time of undocumented close family members of U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, or DACA beneficiaries. Similarly, he could recognize that it is "essential for agriculture" that farmworkers who toil in our fields do so without fear. Another broad authority under existing law the President has at his disposal is to "parole" persons into the country "on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit." Once again, this authority is not unprecedented. Presidents Ford and Carter "paroled" into the country hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese. Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush both used "parole" authority for families who were ineligible for or denied refugee status. President George W. Bush also created a program to "parole" into our country Cuban nationals who would otherwise be forced to wait abroad for a visa number. President Obama recently announced plans to create a similar program for certain Haitians. Similarly, the President could "parole" into the country the spouses, sons, and daughters of American citizens and lawful permanent residents who face lengthy separation waiting for a visa. Doing so would not permit family members to skip the line, but it would allow them to wait in line with their family until a visa number becomes available. Last year, the Administration also formalized a policy of paroling "in place" the spouses, children and parents of military personnel and veterans already here in the United States. Through parole in place, military family members who entered the country without being inspected may become eligible to obtain lawful permanent residence without having to leave the country for ten years. This corrects a gross unfairness in immigration law that overwhelmingly harms persons from the Americas. The President can build upon his "parole in place" policy for military families to benefit countless other mixed-status families. He can similarly use this authority for immigrants whose talents are so great that they can create jobs here in America, who are part of significant research, innovative efforts or professional work that makes our economy stronger. These initiatives are of significant public benefit to our country. Those who oppose immigration reform would have us believe that administrative action amounts to "rewriting the immigration laws." We all know that no president can rewrite the laws. But it is important to remember that Congress and the Constitution give presidents broad authority to take executive action on immigration policy, and past presidents have used this authority generously. That President Obama has pledged to do so as well is not cause for consternation, but is consistent with a president's well-established authority under existing law. Although it is ultimately the job of Congress to reform our immigration laws, we nevertheless look forward to the President's bold and meaningful action to improve the lives of Americans and immigrants alike and advance the interests of our nation. ###
10.28.2014	Thirty-two House Democrats, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, released a letter today to President Obama about the manner in which the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is detaining immigrant families and its plans to significantly expand family detention in the months ahead. The Members are joining a chorus of Senators in? expressing concerns to the President about these family detention policies. "At the current rates, within one year this Administration will have increased capacity to detain immigrant women and children by more than 4,000%," stated Rep. Lofgren. " As the law requires, there needs to be a better assessment in place to appropriately screen and assess these women and children, many of whom are fleeing violence, torture or persecution in Central America." Click here for text of letter. # # #
10.09.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – In a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler yesterday, U.S. Rep. Zoe Logren (D-Calif.) laid out a path forward for strong net neutrality rules, including reclassifying broadband internet access service under Title II with regulation strictly limited to net neutrality. "Large technology companies, small app developers, movie and television writers, public advocacy organizations, and the public at large have all made it clear that blocking, throttling, or prioritizing internet traffic based on source, application, or content is unacceptable, and harms innovation and self-expression," the letter reads. "It is true that reclassifying all broadband internet access services as title II services is not without some concern – which is why it should be done as narrowly – with as much restraint as possible – and solely to accomplish the goals of net neutrality." Lofgren goes on to note that reclassifying broadband internet access as a Title II service, with a combination of FCC rulemaking and forbearance authority under section 706 to implement open internet rules is a plan that will provide the clear, unambiguous authority, strong rules, and measured restrain that had been demanded by the public.The full letter to Chairman Wheeler can be found here.
10.06.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Nearly $6 million in multi-year federal funding was awarded to the Santa Clara County Public Health Department to combat chronic disease and related risk factors, announced U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) today. The funds, distributed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and part of the Partnerships to Improve Community Health grant program, will be used to reduce the prevalence of chronic disease and related risk factors, including tobacco use and exposure, poor nutrition, physical inactivity, and lack of access to chronic disease prevention, risk reduction and management opportunities. "The County Public Health Department provides invaluable services to our community's large and diverse population," said Lofgren, Eshoo, and Honda. "This new federal funding will allow the Department to expand county-wide strategies and targeted programs to improve overall wellness and reduce health disparities for populations at disproportionate risk of chronic disease. We look forward to the many significant, positive health outcomes and potentially transformative impact of these new initiatives." "We are very grateful for this award as it will allow us to continue our work with community partners to address the conditions in our lived environments that so profoundly shape and influence our health," said Daniel Peddycord, County of Santa Clara Director of Public Health. "By creating healthier conditions in the places we live, learn, work and play we create environments that are far more conducive to good health." In a letter supporting the County's grant application, Lofgren noted the Public Health Department's efforts "have made real progress in many areas including improving nutrition, increasing physical activity, reducing smoking, and expanding chronic disease prevention efforts," and urged support for the "County's efforts to continue creating environments that support health and healthy behaviors, [and] using these funds to address gaps and populations of need." The County Public Health Department has been awarded $1.9 million for the first year, and has been recommended for the same amount for years 2 and 3, subject to the availability of funds.
09.30.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – New legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- Calif.) this month would determine the relationship between school start times and adolescent health, well-being and performance. The bill, to direct a Department of Education Study on the issue, comes on the heels of mounting evidence that adolescent students would greatly benefit from later start times. Research has increasingly shown that the natural biological sleep pattern of many adolescents is to go to sleep and wake up at later times. However, many of these students must wake up well before the sun rises to get ready for school, as many high schools in the United States start before 7:30 am. Lofgren has long supported and advocated for a later school start time, first introducing the Zzz's to A's Act in 1998, with subsequent versions throughout the past decade and a half. The latest Zzz's to A's Act (H.R. 5678), supported by the National Sleep Foundation (NSF), directs the Secretary of Education to study the effects of later start times on secondary school students and submit findings and recommendations to Congress. "Students across the United States are not getting enough sleep at night – this affects not just their academic performance, but their health, safety, and well-being," said Lofgren. "We know that as kids become teens their biology keeps them from getting to sleep early, makes it harder for them to wake up early in the morning, and necessitates additional sleep at night. As I have long advocated, and as the American Academy of Pediatrics recently confirmed, adjusting school start times can be an important tool to improve students' health and performance. This study will help local school districts recognize and use new information about the importance of sufficient sleep and the impact that school start times can have on adolescent well-being." "The National Sleep Foundation (NSF) commends U.S. Representative Lofgren for her leadership on this effort," said David Cloud, National Sleep Foundation CEO. "The sleep health and science communities have long recognized that our nation's teens are sleep deprived. School start times should allow students the sleep that they need; adequate sleep is vital to our student's performance, health and well-being. The NSF encourages public and legislative support of Rep. Lofgren's bill, it is a step in the right direction." Just last month, a new policy statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics concurred that delaying the start of school days may help teens get more rest and improve overall adolescent well-being, calling it "one of the most common – and easily fixable – public health issues in the U.S. today." # # #
08.20.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose), Mike Honda (D- San Jose) and Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today announced nearly $1.2 million in federal funding for Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport. The grant, administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration, will fund the extension of the sterile corridor at gates 17 and 18 in the terminal building, needed to accommodate increased air carrier service at the airport. "I'm so pleased to see another sizeable federal investment in Mineta San Jose International," said Lofgren. "It's clear that projects like these not only put people to work and boost our local economy and infrastructure, but they enhance the qualities that make our airport the most attractive gateway of choice for travelers, airlines and businesses in Silicon Valley." "Mineta San Jose International Airport serves the 10th largest city in America, and the capital of our innovation economy-Silicon Valley," said Honda. "By increasing the number of gates capable of handling international passengers, this project will enable Mineta Airport to attract new carriers and offer new international flights. Expanding international service at the airport will provide more options for area travelers, facilitate international business and tourist travel to the San Jose area, and boost our local economy. I'm pleased that federal funding is helping to make this project happen." "Silicon Valley's booming economy has added strain on our transportation infrastructure," said Eshoo. "There are more cars on our roads, more passengers on Caltrain, and more air traffic at Mineta San Jose International. I welcome this federal investment at Mineta San Jose International Airport. It will help us meet our growing transportation needs and spur even greater economic growth." # # #
08.06.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) commended the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors following a 4-1 vote yesterday to authorize County staff to proceed with implementing a local "host family" program to help with the current humanitarian challenge of unaccompanied immigrant minors. "I applaud Santa Clara County for taking a critical first step towards providing a safe and secure environment for little children fleeing violence, persecution and trafficking in their home countries," said Lofgren. "These children deserve our support, and today's vote demonstrates Santa Clara is an open, compassionate community capable of rising to the challenge the United States faces on its southwest border." Yesterday's vote comes after Lofgren addressed a July 15 meeting of the Board of Supervisors to express her concern about the plight of unaccompanied immigrant minors at the border, and urged the Board to explore options in which the County can assist small children fleeing from extreme violence and persecution. Lofgren visited the border this July on a bipartisan Congressional delegation to the Rio Grande Valley to learn more about the unprecedented spike in unaccompanied migrant children apprehended along the southwest border. The Board of Supervisors is expected to consider further action authorizing County Counsel to help provide legal representation for unaccompanied immigrant children. # # #
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – A new surveillance reform bill introduced this week in the Senate makes significant improvements to bulk collections of business records and increases transparency, but falls short in reforming the oft-abused FISA section 702 authority program, said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today. In particular, the bill would continue to allow warrantless searches of Americans' emails, photos, documents, or other files contained in communications swept up by intelligence agencies under section 702 authority. "Chairman Leahy's bill is an encouraging improvement in many respects, and I applaud him for that. But I am disappointed it omits an essential restriction on the collection and use of American communications under 702 authority," said Logren. "When the House of Representatives had its first opportunity to debate and vote on this issue last month, it overwhelmingly passed an amendment to the Department of Defense Apportions Act to prohibit warrantless searches of U.S. persons data. "The Senate now has an opportunity to build on this progress. The Senate should join the House on this very important issue and stand up for the Constitution and the American people, as the House has done, by shutting the backdoor on warrantless spying on Americans." The greater part of the mass surveillance of Americans reported in the news has taken place under the FISA section 702 authority. In fact, a recent Washington Post investigation found that 90% of captured communications reviewed by investigators were of non-surveillance-targets collected under 702 authority, and a May report by the New York Times found the NSA is harvesting millions of photographs from emails and other communications under section 702, including those of Americans. Contrary to a number of misrepresentations following passage of the Massie-Lofgren amendment to curb Section 702 searches, shutting the backdoor on warrantless searches: Does not prohibit Intelligence Agencies from reviewing emails and telephone calls to foreign based terrorists. In fact, intelligence Agencies may search databases without restriction for any foreign nationals' communication – terrorist or not –they only need to get a warrant when searching for US persons; Does not provide greater protections to terrorists than criminals. Instead, it provides Americans with the level of protection – due process – that our criminal laws and Constitution require before the government is allowed to wiretap phones or read emails; Does not prevent surveillance of calls such as between a 9/11 hijacker in San Diego and al Qaeda in Yemen. A separate program sufficiently addresses situations such as this in the current version of the USA Freedom Act; Does not prevent the use of collected information in emergency situations. All of the authorities required to search the database for Americans contain an emergency exception. # # #
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Following an announcement today that health insurance rates will increase at a lower rate than before the Affordable Care Act was enacted, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, applauded Covered California, the state's health insurance marketplace, and credited the federal health care law for helping individuals and families in California. "Prior to the Affordable Care Act, Californians were at the mercy of a wildly unpredictable health insurance market. Too often, families and individuals found themselves saddled with double-digit premium increases, declining benefits, or cut off from coverage altogether. Today, thanks to the new law, our state benefits from a thriving, competitive and transparent health insurance marketplace." Santa Clara County benefitted from the lowest rate increases statewide, with an average plan increase of just 1.0%. According to Covered California, 64,924 individuals in Santa Clara County signed up for coverage during the first open-enrollment period, and 84 percent of them received premium assistance. It is expected that 23 percent of these consumers will see a decrease in rates this year. # # #
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Vulnerable children who are fleeing persecution and extreme violence in Central America are entitled to protection under domestic and international law, said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today. Application for asylum has been an important part of our immigration for decades. Repealing bipartisan protections for victims of human trafficking, slavery, and sex trafficking would irresponsibly return children to their traffickers. Lofgren, the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today during the House Judiciary Committee hearing titled: Oversight of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services: "Thank you Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by welcoming our witness not only to today's hearing, but also to his new position as Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. I think it is fair to say that USCIS doesn't usually get the kind of attention that the rest of the components of DHS do, but its mission is very important. "As we know, USCIS adjudicates a wide array of immigrant and non-immigrant petitions. Families hoping to reunite, businesses searching for talent, persons fleeing persecution and torture, lawful permanent residents applying to become American citizens all go through your agency and it's critically important to our country that your agency performs well. "It's also important to point out that USCIS is responsible for all these important activities without any taxpayer money. It's entirely fee-driven—except for a minor amount, that's basically used to implement E-Verify – all of the applicants pay for the services they receive. "Now, why is this important to our country? You know, I sometimes mention my Grandfather who came to the United States in the early 20th century –got on a boat, got off the boat – and I'm in Congress today because he had the courage to want the American Dream. And the Director's own story, of his family fleeing Turkey and Poland to escape anti-Semitism to Cuba, and then fleeing Cuba to escape communism, and here he is today – part of the rich American fabric. "You know, I have always admired immigrants who have enough "get-up-and-go" to get-up-and-go. They made our country, and we who are here have inherited that rich history and we are now in a position to help shape the future for those who will come after us and it's incumbent we preserve that legacy. "Now there are many topics that will be discussed today, but I want to touch on the issue, because it has already been mentioned, about the children— the unaccompanied children— who have been apprehended at the southwest border. As we know, these individual are under law placed in the safe keeping of the Department of Health and Human Services, but it is USCIS Asylum Officers who determine whether there is a well-grounded fear of persecution, and in the Director's written testimony he explains that almost 65% of the asylum applications filed by unaccompanied children that have been adjudicated this fiscal year have been approved. "Now some argue that this somehow means that there is a rubberstamp of these applications, or that the asylum system is vulnerable to fraud and abuse. I look at that statistic and think that these are vulnerable children who are fleeing persecution and extreme violence, and they are thankful that they are receiving the protection to which they are entitled under domestic and international law. I think it's worth pointing out that an application for asylum isn't illegal— that's part of our immigration laws, and it has been since after World War II. "Now children who have been abandoned, abused, or neglected and who obtain a state court order can apply to USCIS for Special Immigrant status. The Director notes that over 3,900 applications for this SIJ status have been received this fiscal year, and those of us who went to South Texas this month know that these applications require a finding by a State Court that these children have been abandoned. A state court makes that determination, and it's only then that the USCIS will proceed. "Now, children who have been victims of a severe form of human trafficking are eligible for a T visa. And it's important that we maintain and defend this procedure. As Mr. Conyers has pointed out, we had a nearly unanimous vote in 2008 that put the Congress and America on record saying we will fight human trafficking, and we will make sure the victims of human trafficking will be given safe haven in the United States. Much of this discuss in the Congress and in the country has overlooked the fact that the Wilberforce Act is about human trafficking, slavery, and sex trafficking, and if we are to eliminate the protections in that Act, what we will be saying is that we will once again countenance the victims of trafficking being returned to their traffickers. "I will say this- that we did make an exception for the children from contiguous countries, and we have learned— much to our sorrow— that those exceptions need to be revisited, because the United Nations, at our request, has reviewed our processes and has found that children from contiguous countries who have been trafficked are in fact being returned to their traffickers. "With that, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to this hearing and I yield back."
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON , DC – Key border proposals issued today by the Republican House working group to address the humanitarian crisis at the southern border would carelessly return vulnerable children to traffickers for persecution and abuse, said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.). Lofgren, the Senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, called for responding to the humanitarian crisis in a manner that ensures vulnerable children are not hastily returned to life-threatening circumstances: "Stripping these children of their due process rights to more rapidly deport them back to extreme danger or sex trafficking is not a workable solution. If these proposals were to become law, we know that vulnerable children would be returned to their traffickers and others who would continue to persecute and abuse them. We know this because the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and others have carefully studied this issue and discovered that victims of trafficking and violence from Mexico are routinely screened in a cursory manner and wrongly returned to face further abuse or worse at the hands of their traffickers. Expanding this process to all children is not only wrong, but will make the problem worse. Victims will simply try to escape the violence again – but instead of seeking out Border Patrol agents for safety as they do now, they may try to avoid detection – and we will see more dead children in the desert as a result. "We must ensure every child is thoroughly screened so that we do not hastily return little children to life-threatening circumstances or sex trafficking. Children with legitimate claims should be treated in a safe, secure and humane manner while they are in the United States. Those who do not need protection will be returned home after screening. "We are faced with a clear choice. We can respond to this humanitarian challenge in a manner consistent with our laws and values, investing the resources needed to provide due process, or we can repeal the law and let vulnerable children be returned to sex traffickers or other victimizers. Unfortunately, the proposals released by my colleagues today fail to meet the standards we should hold ourselves to as Americans." The Republican working group proposals to roll back anti-trafficking protections for Central American child refugees were announced on the same day the House is expected to take up several anti-trafficking bills on the floor. # # #
07.16.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Santa Clara County is ready to assist in the efforts to care for unaccompanied children crossing the U.S. border, announced local and federal officials today. The announcement, from U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), and Mike Honda (CA-17), San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed, Santa Clara County Supervisors Dave Cortese and Cindy Chavez, and San Jose City Councilman Sam Liccardo, comes as large numbers of unaccompanied children crossing the U.S. border in Texas have created an unfolding humanitarian situation that requires a coordinated federal, state and local response. "Small children and refugees fleeing violence in their home countries require our support, not our acrimony," said the officials. "And where other communities may turn these needy children away, our community is ready and willing to be compassionate. "We urge communities in the Bay Area, throughout the State of California, and across the nation to join us to make good on America's promise of fairness and due process." Under law, as a part of their deportation proceedings, every unaccompanied child is entitled to an evaluation to ascertain whether they are victims of human trafficking, have been abandoned or are eligible for asylum because of persecution. If not eligible, they will be returned home. But until this examination is complete, these children will remain in America where they must be treated humanely. # # #
07.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Three Democratic lawmakers called on the Obama Administration to increase efforts to provide a safe and secure environment for tens of thousands of unaccompanied children apprehended on the U.S. – Mexico border. U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), and Joe Garcia (D-Fla.), members of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, joined a bipartisan Congressional delegation to the Rio Grande Valley this week to learn more about the unprecedented spike in unaccompanied migrant children apprehended along the southwest border. They met with government officials charged with responding to the situation as well as non-governmental organizations, including faith-based organizations, providing legal advice and other support to the children. The lawmakers issued the following statement at the conclusion of their tour: "After completing a tour of part of the southwest border this week, several things have become very clear to us. "First, the Border Patrol has done an excellent job in an extremely difficult situation, and the men and women protecting and apprehending individuals at the border deserve our thanks. "Second, after being briefed by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services asylum specialists, we learned many thousands of these children are bona fide refugees fleeing dangerous situations. They are deserving of protection under international and domestic law. Additionally, countless others have received special immigrant juvenile status following adjudication of dependency proceedings by state judges based on findings of abuse, neglect, or abandonment by a parent. "Third, the conditions of small children confined in Border Patrol stations are unacceptable. Countless children – even toddlers – are currently being held in holding cells in Border Patrol stations that were never designed to care for them. We saw one 3-year old child who had been held for 12 days – she had been looked after by a teenage detainee, but after her caretaker was transferred to another Border Patrol facility in Nogales, the child was handed off from one preteen detainee to another as they were churned in and out of the station. This is intolerable, and the Administration must address the situation without delay, including, if necessary, utilizing FEMA resources to provide these children with a safe and secure environment while their immigration matters are being decided. "Finally, going forward, we need top to bottom, bipartisan immigration reform. We also need a strong, multinational effort to address the causes that are driving these children to flee from their homes. Only by dealing with the root causes of violence and predation in Central America will we adequately address this sharp spike of unaccompanied children in the United States. These children deserve better; our country must do better."
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Democratic Members of Congress will join a bipartisan Congressional delegation to the U.S. – Mexico border this week to learn more about the unprecedented spike in unaccompanied migrant children apprehended along the southwest border. The influx, driven almost entirely by children from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, and largely thought to be a result of extreme violence in their home countries and false rumors that the U.S. will let them in without consequences, poses a tremendous challenge to every governmental and nongovernmental entity that works with this population.U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (Calif.), Sheila Jackson Lee (Texas), Luis Gutierrez (Ill.) and Joe Garcia (Fla.), members of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, intend to meet with government officials from the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and Health and Human Services as well as local experts who work with unaccompanied children and families after they cross the U.S. border. The delegation also hopes to visit a short-term Border Patrol facility that processes and detains unaccompanied children and families, a shelter that houses unaccompanied children after they are transferred to the custody of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, and a local church that serves families who have previously been detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In addition, they hope to meet directly with children and their families who have been apprehended after crossing the border. The Democrats released the following statement in advance of this week's border visit: "The journey to the United States is an extremely dangerous one we do not want children and families to take with smugglers and traffickers. Along the way, these children and families are too often raped, killed, maimed, trafficked, and extorted. We need to learn why – in the face of all these dangers – these women, children and families are still making the trip. We also have a responsibility to manage this border spike in a way that is consistent with our laws and values, and to ensure that no person or child be returned to face persecution or torture abroad as a result of our actions. We are faced with a truly enormous challenge, and we hope this visit will provide us and our colleagues with the necessary insights and perspective to rise to the occasion." ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House GOP appears intent on turning a humanitarian border crisis that deserves a serious discussion into yet another partisan attack on the Obama Administration, said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today. Lofgren, the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today during the House Judiciary Committee hearing titled "An Administration Made Disaster: The South Texas Border Surge of Unaccompanied Alien Minors." "Today's hearing is on a serious topic and it deserves a serious discussion. Unfortunately, as Mr. Conyers has said, the title—"An Administration Made Disaster"—looks like some have made up their minds and may indeed intend to turn this into yet another partisan attack on the Administration. The facts don't support that attack and I hope we will be able to give this topic the consideration it deserves. "There is indeed a spike in the number of unaccompanied minor children apprehended along the southwest border. Although the increase actually began in 2011, the rate of apprehensions has increased sharply and we may apprehend as many as 90,000 kids during the current fiscal year, and they have overwhelmed our resources to cope with them. "Now in the past, the majority of kids coming alone came from Mexico, and they tended to be older children – 16, 17-year-old boys. That is no longer the case. The current spike is driven almost entirely by children from three countries. And we have a chart here, you can see it's starkly laid out- the source of these children coming to the United States are El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. And the current population has changed as well, we don't see that on the chart, it contains lots more girls and many more younger children than have come in the past. "It has been pointed out, and I think all of us will agree, the journey to the United States is extremely dangerous. And along the way, these children could be raped, they could be killed, maimed, become victims of trafficking or extorted. Many of them know the dangers that they will face, so we need to understand what it is – knowing what they face – is causing them to come anyways. What is so horrible that is going on in those countries that you would face being trafficked or raped in order to get here? "Now, the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, has taken a look at what is going on these three countries and they report a spike in violence by transnational criminal organizations. In fact, news reports indicate that officials in El Salvador recently discovered a mass grave containing the remains of people, including children who were killed and dismembered elsewhere. In Honduras, Covenant House reports that murders of children are on the rise and according to the State Department's 2013 country report on Guatemala, many hundreds of women and girls are killed each year. The report notes that "[i]n most killings, sexual assault, torture, and mutilation were evident," but only 1 or 2% of these murders result in conviction. "Now this is a regional catastrophe, and the United States is not the only country experiencing an increase in the number of young people fleeing from these countries and seeking protection. As Mr. Conyers again mentioned, there's been a 712% increase in asylum applications in Mexico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, and Belize. "It's significant that there is no measurable increase of any sort from children coming from these other countries. Look at Nicaragua – there's no spike there and Nicaragua actually is a country that is poorer than Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador. There is no spike from these other countries. So if the majority is correct, if is somehow a change of policy (which there has not been) that has encouraged people to come to the United States – why only from three countries? Why not from the poor country of Nicaragua? "I think also, that the UNHCR, which is probably the most experienced in dealing with refugee matters, interviewed 404 of these unaccompanied children, and they found that 58% spoke of serious harm that raised, for the UN, international protection concerns. I remember last year we had a hearing on so-called "asylum abuse" and Chairman Goodlatte asked whether here really had been a situation where things had gotten more dangerous in recent years. And I think it's obvious when it comes to Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala, the answer to that question appears to be "yes." "Unfortunately, some have tried to politicize the situation. Some have argued that the Administration is responsible for this humanitarian crisis and, indeed, the title of this hearing is conclusory in that respect. Put aside the fact that the Obama Administration has set records in terms of deportations, I think we need to know that nothing has changed in terms of the law. "Looking back at the state of the law, the 1997 court-ordered settlement Flores v. Reno first established that children should be released into the least restrictive environment because at the time little children were being held in prisons with adults. And we found that – and the courts found that – unconstitutional and wrong. Subsequent to that our former colleague, Dick Armey of Texas, introduced the Homeland Security Act of 2002 which codified the court settlement and said that unaccompanied children must be released into the least restrictive environment. And of course the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Act, that we all championed here, cosponsored by Mr. Berman, our former colleague, and Jeff Fortenberry, Chris Smith, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen – also signed into law by President George Bush – further codified that ruling that we are not going to put little children into shackles. "Now, it is true that the government is not now using expedited removal to deport these children without an immigration hearing. Why is that? Because the law prohibits it. They are following what the law says that they must do, and this was the law signed into law when George Bush was President in a Republican Congress. "You know, a regional humanitarian crisis requires a regional solution. I am hopeful that some of the steps announced last week to encourage - even demand - the governments of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras to take action to prevent the violence against these children will have an effect. I'm also going to be looking closely at how we detain families. The Chairman is correct, we also have a surge of families with young children and we are, as we know, opening up additional facilities for those families to be housed. "As the Chairman, I'm sure, will recall, in the Refugee Act of 1980, as well as the Illegal Immigration Reform and Responsibility Act of 1996, authored by Congressman Smith of Texas, it is required that each case be reviewed closely and on a case-by-case basis and that no person or child be returned to face persecution or torture abroad. "This humanitarian crisis poses an enormous challenge. It will not help us to face this challenge by suggesting that when we follow the law, we are somehow making up a new policy. In fact, we are following the policies that are guiding us in treating children since 1997, and I hope that we will not play partisan games with this very dangerous situation." # # #
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives voted late last night to shut backdoors used to access Americans' private electronic data by a vote of 293-123. The amendment to H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, prohibits the search of government databases for information pertaining to U.S. citizens without a warrant and excludes the National Security Agency (NSA) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) from requiring the placement of surveillance "backdoors" in products. It was sponsored by U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.) Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.). "Our amendment to H.R. 4870 further defends the constitutional rights we voted to protect when we passed the USA FREEDOM Act and reclaims an important provision stripped from the original bill," said Sensenbrenner. "Both are positive, but not final, steps in our efforts to reform the administration's surveillance authorities and protect Americans' civil liberties. This amendment clearly states that the Fourth Amendment means what it says and there should be no shortcuts around it. I am pleased it passed the House with strong bipartisan support and I thank Representatives Lofgren and Massie for working with me on this important issue." "This was the first definitive vote Congress has held on the 4th amendment and the NSA, and last night the House stood up for the American people and the Constitution – that is something we can all celebrate," said Lofgren. "This amendment is a worthwhile step forward and will make a meaningful difference, but our work is not done. I trust that our colleagues in the Senate will take note of this overwhelming support for the Constitution as they take the next step in this debate." "Americans are sick of being spied on," said Massie. "The current state of American surveillance meets neither the expectations of our constituents nor the standards required by our Constitution. Our government searches vast amounts of data—including the content of emails and telephone calls—without individualized suspicion or probable cause. I am encouraged by this bipartisan effort to shut surveillance backdoors and ensure that Americans' privacy rights are protected." The amendment was supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups as well as tech companies, including, among others, New America Foundation's Open Technology Group, the American Civil Liberties Union, FreedomWorks, Campaign for Liberty, the Liberty Coalition, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Google, Demand Progress, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. Other cosponsors include: Reps. Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Lofgren (D-Calif.), Massie (R-Ky.), Conyers (D-Mich.), Poe (R-Texas), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Jordan (R-Ohio), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Amash (R-Mich.), Holt (D-N.J.), Nadler (D-N.Y.), Petri (R-Wis.), DelBene (D- Wash.), Farenthold (R-Texas), Butterfield (N. Car.) and Sanford (S. Car.). The House of Representatives passed H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, today by a vote of 340-73.
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The California High-Speed Rail Caucus leadership issued the following statement today as California Governor Jerry Brown signed the 2014-2015 California budget in San Diego. From U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Janice Hahn (CA-44), and Jim Costa (CA-16): "As Chairs of the California High-Speed Rail Caucus, we applaud Governor Brown for signing the 2014-15 California Budget, which contains crucial ongoing funding for California high-speed rail and commend both the Governor and the State Legislature their leadership. "The signed budget is a key turning point for rail and transit in California. Not only does it contain $250 million in cap and trade funds to advance the high-speed rail project, the budget also contains an ongoing commitment to a variety of programs that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help the state combat climate change. On an ongoing basis, without the need for annual appropriations: 25% of the annual cap-and-trade revenue will fund continued development and construction of the high-speed rail system, and 35% of the proceeds will be allocated for affordable housing, transit-oriented development, and transit and intercity capital and operating improvements. "The funding will ease traffic congestion and improve air quality in the State. Currently, California's urban areas rank among the most congested in the country and the problem will only grow worse over time because California's population is projected to grow to about 51 million people by 2050. It is estimated that without the high-speed rail project, California would need to build more than 4,000 new freeway lane miles, 115 new airport gates and four new runways just to keep up with population growth. "This ongoing commitment is a major step forward, both for high-speed rail and for transit, commuter, and intercity rail systems that will make up the statewide modernization program. We applaud the strong leadership from the Governor, the State Legislature, and the High-Speed Rail Authority for addressing California's infrastructure needs head-on. The California High-Speed Rail Caucus looks forward to working together as we advance this transformative investment in California's future."
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A new bipartisan effort to close intelligence agency backdoors and curb government access to private electronic data gained momentum today as the House prepares to debate an amendment sponsored by U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) and a bipartisan group of lawmakers. The amendment, offered to the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 4870), would cut off funding to two government "backdoors" that currently allow intelligence agencies access to Americans private data and correspondence. "There's no question Americans have become increasingly alarmed with the breadth of unwarranted government surveillance programs used to store and search their private data," said Sensenbrenner, Lofgren, and Massie. "By adopting this amendment, Congress can take a sure step toward shutting the back door on mass surveillance. This amendment will reinstate an important provision that was stripped from the original USA FREEDOM Act to further protect the Constitutional rights of American citizens. Congress has an ongoing obligation to conduct oversight of the intelligence community and its surveillance authorities." One "backdoor" would be shut by prohibiting the search of government databases for information pertaining to US citizens, without a warrant. The second door to be shut prohibits the NSA and CIA from requiring "backdoors" into products. The amendment is supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups as well as tech companies, including, among others, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Liberty Coalition, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Google, Demand Progress, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. A full list of cosponsors of the amendment is as follows: Reps. Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Lofgren (D-Calif.), Massie (R-Ky.), Conyers (D-Mich.), Poe (R-Texas), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Jordan (R-Ohio), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Amash (R-Mich.), Holt (D-N.J.), Nadler (D-N.Y.) and Petri (R-Wis.).
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Science, Space and Technology Committee yesterday approved an important bipartisan provision offered by Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) for speedier public access to basic scientific research that would have had lengthy delays imposed under H.R. 4186, the Frontiers in Innovation, Research, Science, and Technology (FIRST) Act. In a mark-up vote by the committee, lawmakers chose to adopt the Sensenbrenner-Lofgren provision reducing the embargo period on accessing federally funded peer-reviewed research to twelve months, in line with the industry standard, instead of the FIRST Act's proposed and arbitrary two-to-three year embargo period. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren: "While the FIRST Act still needs improvement, I am happy my colleagues agree on the principle that the public should have more open access to taxpayer-funded research. It's not in the public's interest to put up barriers to taxpayer-supported basic scientific research because it lays the groundwork for future discoveries. Greater public access accelerates the kind of robust collaboration that can turn this research into the building blocks for breakthroughs that have immense benefits for the public and our economy." Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: "This amendment is a strong compromise between competing interests. While not the wish list of either the publishers or the open access community, it meets the ultimate goal of providing taxpayer access to federally-funded research. It benefits all Americans when their tax dollars are used to craft life changing ideas rather than to fund articles with tax dollars only to have them sit behind pay walls. The American taxpayer has paid for this research and deserves access to its results." The Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment writes into law a process proposed by the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) after extensive input from stakeholders—including the publishing industry—for agencies engaged in scientific research like the National Science Foundation (NSF) to institute a twelve-month embargo on peer-reviewed research. The amendment also offers flexibility by providing an additional six-month extension if stakeholders can demonstrate the public interest would be substantially or uniquely harmed by a one-year embargo. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee representing part of Silicon Valley, released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives: "Across the country, many people were surprised to learn that the privacy rights they believed were protected under the 4th Amendment did not apply to NSA surveillance of their communications. "I originally cosponsored the USA FREEDOM Act when it was introduced last year because it was a small step toward reform and transparency. Unfortunately the bill was changed in key ways after committee action and will no longer provide the protections I sought. "I voted against it today because it falls short of the Fourth Amendment protections Americans deserve. "There is strong bipartisan concern that this bill makes it legal for the NSA to continue mass surveillance of U.S. citizens. Many civil liberties groups and leading tech companies share these concerns and felt compelled to withdraw their support. "Without much needed improvements to the USA FREEDOM Act, Congress risks a continuation of mass surveillance in this extension of the Patriot Act." # # #
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee representing part of Silicon Valley, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on her opposition to H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act (video is also available here): "Mr. Speaker, I certainly respect the role that Mr. Sensenbrenner (Rep. James Sensenbrenner, WI-5) has played in this, and honor him and his wife Cheryl for their commitment to freedom. "But I must oppose the Freedom Act that is on the floor today. This is not the bill that was reported out of the Judiciary Committee unanimously. I voted for that bill, not because it was perfect, but because it was a step in the right direction. "After the bill was reported out, changes were made without the knowledge of the committee members, and I think the result is a bill that actually will not end bulk collections, regretfully. As Mr. Scott (Rep. Robert ‘Bobby' Scott, VA-3) has said, our job is not to trust but to codify. And if you take a look at the selection changes made in the bill it would allow for bulk collection should the NSA do so. "Further, I would note, that the transparency provisions have also been weakened. The 702 section would no longer be reportable by companies who receive orders. And instead of the Attorney General noting decisions that change the law, it is now sent over the Director of National Intelligence. "Regrettably, we have learned that if we leave any ambiguity in the law, the intelligence agencies run a truck right through that ambiguity. I think that's why all of the civil liberties groups have withdrawn their support from this bill. The ACLU, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, CDT, Open Technology. I would add FreedomWorks and other libertarian groups have also pulled their support. Companies like Facebook and Google have also pulled their support of the bill. "Now, I hope that we will defeat this bill and come back together—because we do work together well here in the Judiciary Committee—and fix the problems that were created, I think at the insistence of the Administration, and give honor to Mr. Sensenbrenner's original bill that had 151 Members cosponsoring it." # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's remarks.
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee representing part of Silicon Valley, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about serious concerns with the latest version of the USA FREEDOM Act following a deal struck late last night replacing the original legislation introduced and later approved by the House Judiciary Committee: "Mister Speaker, I rise to express my serious concern about the USA FREEDOM Act. "First, it's important for all of the Members to know that what is being considered is not the bill that was marked up by the House Judiciary Committee. After it was reported out unanimously by the House Judiciary Committee, certain key elements of this bill were changed. "I think it's ironic that a bill that was intended to increase transparency was secretly changed between the Committee markup and floor consideration, and it was altered in worrisome ways. "The definition of selector, rather than being narrowed, has been defined in such a way that it would allow for large-scale acquisition of data. This is a concern that has been expressed to me—by both Republicans and Democrats—that the way the definition is lodged you could get first the southern-half of the United States, and then the eastern-half of the United States, then Missouri. Those could be the selectors. "I offered nine amendments, none were put in order. We should insist that we do better than this, Mister Speaker." # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's remarks.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, testified today before the House Rules Committee on two amendments (Amendments 228 and 229, more detailed information following the transcribed remarks) she has proposed to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to bring needed reforms to NSA Surveillance activities. What follows are Rep. Lofgren's remarks and a brief colloquy with Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX), the Chairman of the House Rules Committee, video of which is available here: Rep. Lofgren: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. I have amendment 228 and amendment 229. Let me start first with 228. This is an encryption funding amendment. It is sponsored by myself, Congressman Rush Holt, and my colleague on the Judiciary Committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia. The amendment would prevent funding of any intelligence elements, program, or related activity that mandates a request that a device manufacturer, software developer, or standards organization build in a backdoor to circumvent the encryption or privacy protection of its products, unless there is statutory authority to make such a mandate or request. Now we've seen in the newspaper that the NSA paid the RSA $10 million to set as the default a deliberately flawed encryption method which gave backdoor access to any message encrypted with the RSA program. In March we saw another report that another flawed encryption tool was given to RSA by the NSA to increase the speed at which to access messages encrypted with the flawed standard. The recent Heartbleed SSL bug shows that even when backdoors are created unintentionally, the cost to business to repair them are tremendous. I think the important thing to remember is that if there is a flaw in encryption, eventually somebody finds that flaw and they exploit them. Now intentionally adding a backdoor to security or privacy system or standards not only makes us all more unsafe, it comes with huge economic cost. These costs are more than what we lose to bad actors exploiting the backdoors. It also costs tech companies the goodwill and trust that they build up over the years with foreign consumers. It just doesn't make sense to spend money on a program that results in greater harm and cost than would exist without the program. Since the NDAA purpose is to authorize appropriations for FY 2015 for military activities of DoD and since the NSA is within this department, we've been advised that this amendment is germane. I think it's important that we give an opportunity to the members of the House to speak out on this item that is a matter of tremendous concern among Americans of both parties, and there is support for reform among the members of the House from both parties, and I think it's important that the House have an opportunity to express its will. The second amendment has to do with 702 of the USA PATRIOT Act. The amendment would prohibit the use of funds researching for the communications of Americans that is collected under section 702 of FISA, in a manner that is inconsistent either with the probable cause requirements of the rest of Title 7 regarding US persons or the 4th Amendment. This amendment is offered by myself, Congressman Massie, Congressman Amash, and Congressman Polis. Again, this is a bipartisan amendment and I think it's important that the members of the House of Representative have an opportunity to stand up and take a stand on this issue. This amendment comports with the structure of Title 7 which requires probable cause in all of its authorities that directly deals with the communications of US persons. Now how does this actually work? 702 of the act provides that you can collect information, in bulk, about people outside the United States and also communications between people in the United States outside. As a practical matter, what that means is not just phone calls from me to my great Aunt Tilly in Sweden—but also because phone calls as well as emails and other internet communications are routed along the internet backbone—that information flows in a way that's easiest to flow. Further, we have servers that have the information of US persons that may be located outside of the United States even though they have the information of US persons. For example, some companies have servers in Iceland because of their geothermal energy and because it's not that hot in Iceland, which is an issue for server farms. They might have all of your information, Mr. Chairman, if you have a Gmail, or Yahoo, or MSN account, but because it's located outside of the United States, all of that could be obtained. The point of this amendment is that if you're going to query that database that has been lawfully collected or information about Americans—you should get a warrant to do that—you should have probable cause—and probable cause is the standard for in the 4th amendment, and it's the standard throughout the rest of the bill. Now this is germane because the NDAA's purpose is to authorize appropriations for FY 2015 for military activities, for the Department of Defense, the NSA, and agencies under the DoD. And we believe that, although there are efforts underway between the Judiciary and Intelligence committees to come up with a compromised bill relative to the USA FREEDOM Act, this is not addressed by that compromise, and it needs to be addressed by the House of Representatives. REP. SESSIONS: Ms. Lofgren, your insight into this specificity of the cyber world is interesting and I will tell you that I am intrigued by your testimony. I am, probably as every single member of this body, concerned about the laws of this country to protect individual civil liberties, but also to make sure we have an opportunity to protect this country. But the application through the backdoor by an organization—any organization—that would allow information to be gained—what I would call gained—without proper notice, is serious. I don't consider it a breach, I consider it an application. And I need to go look at this a little bit more and I tell you being here is very important and I appreciate this. REP. LOFGREN: I thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and as I say, this does have bipartisan support. I would note that I was aware that a version of the USA FREEDOM Act will be coming before us and it is a compromise, I did vote for it in the Judiciary committee. But the 702 backdoor problem, which was addressed by Mr. Sensenbrenner in his original bill, is not included and it should be. It doesn't mean that you wouldn't get any information, but it is – Sir, if you have a warrant, you can query it. And here is my fear: that if you don't address this issue, we're going to be back here in a couple years having seen the same kind of, you know, violations of the Constitution that are going to lead our constituents across the country to be outraged. We have an opportunity to address it now. I understand and support the need for compromise between the two committees, but allowing the House to work its will, if a majority of the House feels that the 4th Amendment ought to be honored in this way, is not inconsistent with the agreement reached between the two committees. I thank the gentleman for his kind words. # # # Click here for more related video from this hearing. Amendment #228 is a bipartisan proposal offered by Reps. Lofgren, Rush Holt (D-NJ) and Doug Collins (R-GA): This amendment would prevent the funding of any intelligence agency, intelligence program, or intelligence related activity that mandates or requests that a device manufacturer, software developer, or standards organization build in a backdoor to circumvent the encryption or privacy protections of its products, unless there is statutory authority to make such a mandate or request. Amendment #229 is a bipartisan proposal offered by Reps. Lofgren, Justin Amash (R-MI), Thomas Massie (R-KY), and Jared Polis (D-CO): This amendment would prohibit the use of funds for searching for the communications of U.S. persons collected under section 702 of FISA in a manner inconsistent with the probable cause requirements of the rest of Title VII regarding U.S. persons or the Fourth Amendment.
05.15.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) announced today that the City of San José will receive $4 million in federal funding for the South Bay Water Recycling Program. The funding will go towards construction of infrastructure improvements expanding the water recycling program, including more than 20 miles of recycled water pipeline, two 2.75 million gallon storage reservoirs, and reliability improvements at the transmission pump station. Recycled water from the project is used for multiple purposes, including environmental restoration, urban agriculture, landscape and industry. "Water recycling programs are proving to be smart and effective ways to help meet the needs for water while easing the demands placed on drinking water during times of drought," said Rep. Lofgren. "We are already experiencing the effects of climate change. As environmental conditions become more unpredictable they will require new conservation and efficiency efforts to meet our needs for water." Rep. Lofgren has long supported efforts since her time on the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors to improve long-term sustainability and cost-effective solutions to combat both severe droughts and growing water needs. In addition to supporting funding requests for the South Bay Water Recycling Program, she recently sent a letter to her colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives touting the WaterSMART Grants Program and Title XVI Water Reclamation and Reuse Program that fund the investments like today's $4 million in funding for water recycling initiatives. Citing the need to be more effective at responding more quickly to conditions as they develop, she has urged her colleagues to streamline the program so reclamation and reuse projects deemed to have merit by the Bureau of Reclamation are not stalled pending Congressional approval. The South Bay Recycling Program is a joint effort by local municipalities and water districts, administered by the City of San José, to provide recycled water throughout Santa Clara County. Currently recycled water delivered by the program replaces approximately 10,000 acre-feet per year of imported water with a local, sustainable, supply of water. # # #
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Thomas Massie (KY-4), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), and Rob Woodall (GA-7) introduced bipartisan legislation today that would allow federal agencies to construct power charging stations for employees with electric vehicles at no cost to the taxpayer. The EV-COMUTE Act (Electric Vehicle Charging Offers Modern Utility Terminals for Employees Act) is modeled after an initiative at the U.S. Capitol that has proven successful for commuters with electric cars to pay a fee to use the charging stations that offsets the costs for both the construction and use of the stations. "I was surprised to learn that Members of Congress can recharge their cars when they are at the House of Representatives but my constituents who work at other federal offices are actually barred from having charging facilities at their federal workplace," said Rep. Lofgren. "I myself drive an electric car and I know they are an important part of improving efficiency and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. There's really no reason why government employees shouldn't be able to pay to charge their vehicles while they work and that's what this straightforward bill does." Rep. Massie, an MIT graduate who uses solar power at his Kentucky home and drives an electric car daily in Washington DC, said, "In my personal and public life, I consistently support an all-of-the-above energy strategy for the United States. I'm proud to cosponsor this legislation because it will expand transportation options for many Americans at no cost to taxpayers." Rep. Massie serves on both the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. "The EV-COMUTE Act takes a successful clean energy initiative in place at the U.S. Capitol and expands it to federal agencies nationwide, allowing commuters to plug in their electric vehicles at work for a small fee," said Rep. Eshoo. "As the nation's largest employer, the federal government should lead by example in offering workplace charging. Silicon Valley is home to thousands of electric vehicle owners, yet the more than 5,000 federal employees in my congressional district have no access to charging facilities at work because of a quirk in existing law. This legislation is a small but commonsense step in our global battle against climate change and will help keep the U.S. a leader in clean energy deployment. As the saying goes, ‘from our house to yours.'" "The free market should be guided by consumer choice, and this bipartisan legislation lifts an arbitrary restriction that currently limits transportation options for federal employees," said Rep. Woodall. "This common sense change will expand consumer choice for thousands of Americans at zero cost to the taxpayer, and I'm excited to work with my colleagues to make it happen." Despite the growing popularity of electric vehicles, federal employees currently don't have access to use of paid charging stations at their workplace parking facilities. In fact, agencies are currently prohibited from constructing or even entering into contracts with charging service providers under current law. The EV-COMUTE bill would allow federal agencies to construct and operate battery recharging stations in parking areas used by federal employees. Specifically, the bill would: • Authorize federal agencies to maintain on a reimbursable basis a battery recharging station for the use of privately owned vehicles of federal employees and others authorized to park at federal facilities. • Authorize agencies to enter into contracts with vendors to construct, operate and maintain battery recharging stations. • Authorize agencies to charge appropriate fees to individuals who use the charging stations to ensure the recovery of costs incurred for the installation, construction, operation and maintenance of the stations. In 2012 Congress passed legislation similar to the EV-COMUTE with broad bipartisan support to bring electric vehicle charging stations at the U.S. Capitol for lawmakers and their staffs. Click here to read the EV-COMUTE Act. # # #
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Eric Swalwell (CA-15) applauded a decision by the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) to remove a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would cut funding and reduce academic access to the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) and the Z-machine at Sandia National Laboratories. An amendment to restore access and funding was led by HASC members Representatives Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) and John Garamendi (CA-3). Swalwell and Lofgren worked to ensure this harmful provision was removed during the Committee's consideration of NDAA. "NIF is engaged in some of the most important scientific research being undertaken by the United States today, especially in light of the overwhelming science on the challenges climate change poses for our future," said Rep. Lofgren. "NIF's research into fusion has led to new breakthroughs and the support being shown for the facility's work by the Congress underscores the importance we place on continuing their promising efforts." "Science was the victor today as we removed a provision that would have impeded progress in the important fields of fusion and clean energy development at our national labs," said Rep. Swalwell, who represents Livermore, CA. "I thank Congresswoman Sanchez and Congressman Garamendi for their efforts in the House Armed Services Committee to assure the U.S. remains at the forefront of this critical research." ###
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) released the following statement today applauding a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) initiatives designed to encourage highly skilled and technically trained individuals working in the U.S. under the H-1B visa program to stay and contribute more fully to the U.S. economy. The announced changes would allow the spouses of H1-B visa holders to apply for work authorization after 6 years of residence in the country: "If we want to attract the best and brightest minds to come to the U.S. and help grow our innovation economy then it makes sense to also welcome the talents of their spouses. Often times, I meet the spouse of an engineer in Silicon Valley who is also educated but not allowed to fully contribute his or her talents, which sometimes leads the couple to leave the U.S. altogether. "These are the kind of smart changes we can make under current law to bring some relief from a dysfunctional immigration system. I think the Administration can continue to investigate ways to make improvements, but ultimately Congress must pass top–to–bottom immigration reform if we are going to fix our country's broken immigration system." # # #
05.02.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – In a joint statement released by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, in which she is joined by Reps. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Judy Chu (CA-27), Janice Hahn (CA-44), Mike Honda (CA-17), Jared Huffman (CA-2), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Juan Vargas (CA-51), and Henry Waxman (CA-33), lawmakers from the largest state delegation in Congress responded in unity today to ongoing racially charged remarks being reported in the media: "As shown by the recent racist and hateful comments by Cliven Bundy and the Los Angeles Clippers Owner Donald Sterling, racial discrimination is still prevalent in our society and must be addressed directly. Unfortunately, some Republican lawmakers have continued to exacerbate the situation by using language such as ‘welfare queens' and ‘food stamp president.' Recently, commentator Bill O'Reilly even went a step further by calling Rep. Barbara Lee a "notorious race hustler." Such language, which is fraught with racial undertones, is charged, divisive and offensive and has no place in our national discourse. "For us to achieve the American dream for all, we must engage in this conversation that has been sparked about race and poverty, even if it is difficult for some. Racial discrimination, poverty, and income inequality do exist. They remain issues that must be debated and addressed, but the continued use of ‘code words' only serves to get in the way of solving the real problems that face many Americans in communities across our country. "As members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, we feel the priority must be to work together to create opportunity for all Americans. We must make critical investments in job creation, education, and job training. Among many issues, we must address extending unemployment insurance, raising the minimum wage, enacting criminal justice reform, and ensuring voting rights for our citizens so we can truly find solutions to these critical issues." # # #
05.01.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) released the following statement honoring Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, which is observed in May. Please click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's statement. "I'm proud to represent San Jose, California, home to one of the largest, most diverse and most vibrant Asian Pacific American communities in our country. As a Congresswoman, and a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, it's great to honor the contributions that Asian Pacific Americans have made throughout our history. "From contributing to the arts, culture and sciences, to protecting our freedoms through brave service in our armed forces, Asian Pacific Americans have helped our country achieve its greatness. But even as we celebrate the accomplishments of Asian Pacific American economic, cultural, and political figures, we must not forget the challenges that Asian Pacific Americans have endured and overcome throughout our history. "As we celebrate this proud heritage, let's also recommit ourselves to ensuring a lasting respect for human rights, and the opportunities that let all of our people fully pursue the American Dream." # # #
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, released the following statement today commemorating Black April Day. Black April is traditionally observed by the Vietnamese-American community on April 30th to mark the Fall of Saigon and the fall of the South Vietnamese government to the North Vietnamese communist regime on April 30, 1975: "Today I join others around the world, and in my own community, in commemorating the 39th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon. "Earlier this week I joined with members of the Vietnamese-American community at a flag raising ceremony in San Jose on Sunday to observe this sober day in history. I recalled that on this day thirty-nine years ago, as a young person working in a congressional office, I was actually on the phone trying to arrange travel for the younger sisters of a Vietnamese-American constituent. As I was on the phone, the line went dead and that was the end of the communication with the embassy, the South Vietnamese government had fallen. "Fortunately, those young girls eventually walked through the jungle and escaped to safety. Their bravery was typical of the thousands of refugees in America and around the world beginning new lives, who never forgot the struggles they endured and those left behind. "Thirty-nine years later, the Vietnamese government ranks alongside other dubious regimes such as Iran, North Korea, and Sudan in oppressing its people and violating basic human rights. But the story of the Vietnamese in America is one of heroism, of bravery, and of constancy in their commitment to freedom. Like them, I will continue to stand up and speak out against Vietnam's oppression and work to see the improvement of human rights for the Vietnamese." # # #
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) released the following statement reacting to the news of the deportation of Antonia Aguilar, a mother of three children in the Bay Area. Earlier this week Rep. Lofgren introduced a ‘private bill' to provide relief for Ms. Aguilar after learning of her situation during a meeting with her son who attends college at San Jose State University: "This week I introduced a private bill to bring relief for the mother of a young man who is an engineering student at San Jose State University. He now faces the daunting task of pursuing his rigorous course of study while also having to raise his younger brother and sister because his mother is gone. She was deported after traveling to Mexico to see her dying father. Like any mother, she wants and needs to be with her children. "Sadly, her family's story is not unique. Our dysfunctional immigration system continues to rip families apart, separating husbands from wives and children from their parents. When our immigration system fails families I step in to do as much as I can. I urge the Administration, also, to review policies so that parents whose only offense is an effort to step up to their parental responsibilities are no longer treated as priorities for enforcement. "Even extraordinary efforts on behalf of individuals are often not enough because our immigration system is fundamentally broken and will continue to be broken until we reform our immigration laws. Americans want to see our immigration system fixed. The Republican majority in Congress has refused to allow an up or down vote on immigration reform. Until then, more families will be subjected to this kind of heartbreak and separation." # # #
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA-46), co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, hosted a congressional briefing at the U.S. Capitol today to discuss Vietnam's oppressive media environment. Below are Congresswoman Lofgren's opening remarks, video of which is available by clicking here: "It is important, of course, that we think about World Press Day, this coming Saturday, as we proceed into the support forum today. "We all know that human rights in Vietnam remain a dire situation, but not everybody in the United States realizes how serious is the issue of free speech and free press in that repressed country. It is worth noting that Reporters Without Borders, an independent group, has ranked Vietnam 174th out of 180 countries in terms of their poor performance. "They are behind only Sudan and Iran, and only one spot ahead of China—last in South East Asia in terms of repression. "Here's what, to quote Reporter's Without Borders, said: "Vietnam has stepped up information control to the point of being close to catching up with its Chinese big brother. Independent news providers are subject to enhanced Internet surveillance, draconian directives, waves of arrests and sham trials. Vietnam continues to be the world's second largest prison for bloggers and netizens." "The imposition of Decree 72, last September, which bans the use of blogs and social networks to disseminate news, shows that the government is waging, really, an all out offensive against a new generation internet, which it sees as a dangerous counterweight to the domesticated, traditional media. "Vietnam, with its horrible record, also has attracted the attention of the Commission on U.S. International Religious Freedoms—and in its most recent annual report, it identified Vietnam as a tier one country of particular concern. "Now, [Rep.] Loretta [Sanchez] has mentioned the 3 bloggers invited who were detained and were not permitted to come here today. You know, the communists in Vietnam are trying to keep them from speaking out, but I think the irony is their oppression of these three bloggers has actually highlighted their voices. It has highlighted their voices because of you, and of because of what we will do today. "You know, tomorrow marks the 39th year since the fall of Saigon, Black April. I mentioned at a flag raising ceremony in San Jose on Sunday, I was a young person working in a congressional office, and I was actually on the phone trying to arrange for travel for the younger sisters of a woman—a Vietnamese-American constituent—and as I was on the phone, the phone went dead and that was the end of the communication with the embassy, the government fell. "Those young girls, 18 and 15, walked through the jungle by themselves and ultimately did make their way to the United States. "The story of the Vietnamese in America is one of heroism, of bravery, of constancy of commitment to freedom, and what you do today to advance human rights is very much in keeping with that brave, proud record. "Thank you for letting me be a part of this and congratulations to all of you." # # #
04.25.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding Net Neutrality and the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) draft Open Internet Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: "From the beginning, the internet and its users have flourished with ‘net neutrality.' Internet providers can't accelerate content for a price or discriminate against content that did not pay. Unlike radio and television, users of the system can decide for themselves what they want to see and do on the internet. "Because of net neutrality, internet providers also cannot disadvantage disruptive newcomers by erecting barriers to utilizing the internet. Innovators, and therefore consumers, benefit because big companies can't prevent startups from competing on the internet. "Press reports about the FCC's proposal spark serious concerns that this basic, fundamental character of the internet may be changed. Allowing internet providers to charge fees to provide the equivalent of a ‘fast lane,' as the FCC is reported to propose, would alter the internet as we know it. That's because you cannot provide priority to one service provider without degrading or slowing access to others. "Any FCC proposal eliminating net neutrality would be a paradigm shift. It would transform the internet so providers become gatekeepers who control what internet users can do. It would give an unprecedented advantage to content providers who can afford to pay the new tolls. It would leave upstart innovators stifled at the starting line instead of competing online. "Without net neutrality there will be harm to consumers and to innovation. Free speech and our economy will be harmed as the incredible expansion and growth that have thrived in an open net are stunted. "The FCC's proposal is also contrary to what President Obama promised our country when he ran for President. Many will now look to the President to act to prevent the catastrophic outcomes that an FCC announcement may signal. That's because the idea of net neutrality is even more important today, where many of our internet access providers have merged with the very content they provide access to, giving them an even greater incentive to prioritize some content over others. "There is a key difference between charging a premium for faster speed for service for all content as opposed to restricting the equality that has existed on the Internet for expression, innovation and commerce. I urge those who value the freedom that the internet allows today to also contact the FCC to voice strong objection to any dilution of net neutrality and any dilution to net freedom." # # #
04.23.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Nearly all of California's Democratic Congressional Delegation have joined their voices together in an effort to urge University of California President Janet Napolitano to reconsider a recent decision to close the Lick Observatory located on Mt. Hamilton. In a letter released today, thirty-five members of the delegation told Napolitano that they were "concerned…that perhaps you don't fully appreciate the importance of Lick, or the University of California's ongoing support for the observatory, to our constituents and California." In the letter the Representatives noted that "the federal government has invested millions of dollars in research grants and equipment construction at Lick" with $10.4 million dollars in past federal investment and an additional $11.5 million in ongoing federal projects. Lawmakers also noted that the threat of closure or uncertain support would "chill any future projects" if granting agencies "perceive this action to raise doubts about the future ability and commitment of the University as a whole to maintain its research investments." While lawmakers told Napolitano that they "appreciate budgetary concerns facing UC," they urged her to tap into the outpouring of support that has emerged since the University's announcement to explore other options to keep the cutting edge research institution open. Noting the wide range of capabilities that make Lick Observatory an important facility for academic, scientific research and public use, they remarked the future of the facility could include "educational partnerships, astro-tourism, or possible commercial ventures" that could co-exist with astronomy research and educational programs "to the mutual benefit of all." Previously nine members of the delegation had written to urge Napolitano to reconsider on the matter. The following is the full text of the letter, which can also be viewed by clicking here: April 8, 2014 Janet Napolitano President University of California 1111 Franklin Street Oakland, CA 94607-5200 Dear President Napolitano: Thank you very much for your letter of March 4, 2014, concerning Lick Observatory. Unfortunately we are concerned that your information is not entirely accurate and that perhaps you don't fully appreciate the importance of Lick, or of the University of California's ongoing support for the observatory, to our constituents and California. Perhaps the most important reason to maintain UC's modest investment in Lick is to uphold commitments made, and assure future confidence. The federal government has invested millions of dollars in research grants and equipment construction at Lick. According to The University of California Observatories (UCO), there are approximately $11.5 million in ongoing federal projects that would be disrupted if Lick were to close. Another $10.4 million dollars in past federal infrastructure investment, would be wasted if Lick closes. The threat of closure or uncertain support and maintenance will put those investments in jeopardy and certainly chill any future projects. An even more worrisome consequence of UC's proposal to cut support would be if granting agencies perceive this action to raise doubts about the future ability and commitment of the University as a whole to maintain its research investments. Our communications with Dr. Sandra Faber, the Interim Director of the UCO, which operates Lick and Dr. Alex Filippenko, a UC Berkeley astronomer working at Lick, provide a different perspective from your letter. Unlike your description of an unimportant facility with declining use and privately held instruments, Lick in fact gets very similar usage to the Keck Observatory, with scientists from all eight UC campuses with astronomy programs (and two UC-operated National Labs), and that number has been steady for years. Lick is used by undergraduate and graduate students, and post-doctoral, staff and faculty scientists for educational and cutting-edge research purposes. The KAIT and APF facilities are owned by Lick and are used by astronomers from across UC. These cutting edge tools are an integral part of the observatory and could not function effectively as stand-alone entities. The Shane 120-inch telescope and Nickel 40-inch telescope, not mentioned in your letter, are even more widely and heavily used. The laser guide star adaptive optics, developed at Lick and still being studied and improved on Shane, allow ground-based observation comparable to the space-based Hubble Telescope. While we support the UC astronomy facilities in Hawaii, the Keck Observatory and the Thirty-Meter Telescope, it would be foolhardy to sacrifice Lick with the expectation that they will take up the slack. By providing more available nights at a lower cost and closer location, Lick works exceptionally well in concert with Keck (and will with the TMT). It provides a testing ground for new techniques and equipment. It also provides the number of telescope nights necessary for long-term projects, and it serves as a critical training and educational tool. We appreciate the budgetary concerns facing UC, and it appears Lick is making great efforts to find other collaborators and supporters, but finding outside support will be almost impossible without the stability and confidence that a commitment from UC brings. The $1.4 million UC invests in Lick's annual operations is a wise and valuable investment. This amount is small compared to investments in Keck or TMT, and in comparison to the cost of decommissioning the facility. While the exact cost of closing Lick can't be known without considerable study, we strongly encourage you to consult with Santa Clara County, which has land use jurisdiction in the Mt. Hamilton area, about the millions of dollars in potential costs as a result of closing Lick. Hazard reduction, ongoing fire suppression, and ecological habitat restoration costs alone could be very costly. Support for Lick to continue certainly exists. UC's announcement to cease funding is attracting attention, and concerned citizens are rallying to express support. The Lick Observatory Council, composed of distinguished citizens primarily from the Bay Area, is considering novel strategies to help Lick. Your office has received many testimonial letters from faculty, researchers, graduate students, and undergraduates who have used Lick, as well as from citizens who appreciate Lick's major public visitor and educational outreach programs. This community support is crucial and demonstrates the appreciation for this historic scientific facility, and the goodwill it delivers. However, it is based on an understanding of UC's commitment to provide a base-level of support and keep the observatory operating and thriving. Exciting possibilities for the future of Lick are being discussed: educational partnerships, astro-tourism, or possible commercial ventures; any or all of these could co-exist on the mountain along with astronomy research and with both graduate and undergraduate astronomy education programs, to the mutual benefit of all. We celebrate UC's tremendous achievements in the science of astronomy and the vital contributions that Lick Observatory continues to make as a system-wide facility to UC's astronomy research and education programs. We hope to see Lick continue to provide these benefits to UC, the State and the community and we hope you will work with UCO Interim Director Faber to find a satisfactory solution. The elements for a solution, and the collaborative support it would need, exists to forge new avenues of opportunity for Lick to continue serving and benefiting students, the University, the scientific community, and the people of California. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Mike Honda (CA-17) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Susan Davis (CA-53) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Raul Ruiz, M.D. (CA-36) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Jim Costa (CA-16) Sam Farr (CA-20) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Mark Takano (CA-41) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Scott Peters (CA-52) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) Karen Bass (CA-37) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Mike Thompson (CA-5) George Miller (CA-11) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) John Garamendi (CA-3) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Judy Chu (CA-27) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Henry Waxman (CA-33) # # #
04.21.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) issued the following statement on the passing of Janet Gray Hayes, the former and first female Mayor of the City of San Jose: "Janet Gray Hayes made a profound, lasting impact on our community. She was a trailblazer who helped open the door for women to serve their communities in public office. She was the one who declared San Jose to be the 'feminist Capitol of the world' when she led San Jose as its Mayor, with a female majority city council and a new female majority on the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors. I was part of that new group of emerging women leaders. Her generous assistance, guidance and leadership helped put me there. More than that, she was a friend. I appreciated her guiding hand from the time she appointed me to the San Jose Charter Review Commission through my election to, and service in, Congress. I will miss her greatly and I will never forget her." # # #
04.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – One year ago today, eight members of the U.S. Senate - Senators Schumer, Durbin, McCain, Rubio, Bennet, Menendez, Flake and Graham - introduced S. 744, the "Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act." This comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. immigration system would bring millions of undocumented immigrants out of the shadows, strengthen American businesses, families, and communities, and spur much-needed economic growth. While the U.S. Senate passed S. 744 on a bipartisan vote of 68-32, the U.S. House of Representatives has failed to take any action on comprehensive immigration reform legislation. To mark the anniversary of the legislative introduction, Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, released the following statement: Representative John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich): "Exactly one year ago, eight Senators - four Republicans and four Democrats - came together and introduced legislation to reform our country's immigration laws. This bipartisan spirit was animated by a singular reality: our immigration system is fundamentally broken and must be reformed in order to benefit American families, communities, and businesses. Yet, while the Senate worked in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion at every step of the legislative process - ultimately passing comprehensive immigration reform with the support of a supermajority of Senators - the path pursued by the Republican-controlled House of Representatives has been unashamedly partisan. Congressional support exists to bring millions of individuals out of the shadows, reunite immigrant families, and boost the economy; all that is lacking is a sense of political courage. In marking the one year anniversary of the Senate's legislative work, we are acknowledging a year of missed opportunities and inaction by House Republicans. To hold reform up any longer would be more than pure negligence, it would be an act of callousness." Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.): "One year ago a bipartisan group of Senators stepped forward to introduce a comprehensive immigration reform proposal. While not perfect, they had found common ground and their bill attracted broad support in the U.S. Senate. Americans hoped it would start a process in Congress of examining, debating and giving immigration reform a fair vote to finally fix our broken immigration system. That's because top-to-bottom immigration reform would grow our economy and create jobs, reduce the debt, make our country safer, energize innovation and competitiveness, and tame illegal immigration. Even today a majority of Members of the House say that they favor immigration reform, which isn't surprising because reform is overwhelmingly supported by a majority of Americans from across the political spectrum. That support is one of the reasons why a movement has started to give immigration reform a fair up or down vote in the House. But the Republican-controlled House continues to stall on immigration reform, and as they continue to run out the clock, the window of opportunity to pass reform narrows." # # #
04.15.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) today issued the following statement today on the San Jose City Council vote unanimously approving the terms and conditions for the federal government to lease 35,149 square feet of space in the City Hall Wing as a permanent location of the Silicon Valley U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO): "This is a big win for San Jose and California that will directly benefit our economy. San Jose's selection followed an intense effort by Anna Eshoo, Mike Honda and myself, along with Mayor Reed. The tireless support of community and business leaders in the Valley was key. Enterprising startups and global technology leaders alike will benefit from direct access to this patent office's services in San Jose that currently are only available across the country in Washington. The Silicon Valley patent office will help promising start-ups go from the drawing board to the marketplace faster, and in the process, grow their ventures and create good paying jobs." # # #
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee who represents part of Silicon Valley, today spoke about the need to preserve a free and open Internet in order for the technological platform to continue to thrive in the decades to come. Recently the Obama Administration announced it intends to finish transitioning responsibility for managing Internet Domain Names to the private sector under a long running contract between the Commerce Department and the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), a California-based nonprofit group. Rep. Lofgren said that despite erroneous reports, the decision would preserve and advance the current multi-stakeholder model of global Internet governance during an exchange with Lawrence E. Strickling, Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the U.S. Department of Commerce. Strickling was testifying before a House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet hearing titled "Should the Department of Commerce Relinquish Direct Oversight Over ICANN?" You can view video of this exchange by clicking here. A transcript of the exchange follows: Rep. Lofgren: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. It's been interesting to listen to some of the discussion today. And it reminds me that generally when the Congress gets involved in the engineering questions of the Internet, we sometimes show that we don't understand the Internet, and we often almost make mistakes. I think about the call that some made on the Committee made to "bring in the nerds" during the SOPA [Stop Online Privacy Act] discussion because it was pretty obvious that most of the Members didn't even know what DNS [Domain Name System] was. I do think, therefore, that this hearing is very, very helpful because it informs us and the American people about what really is the question before us. I remember I was on the Committee in 1998, 1997, when we had these discussions initially. Obviously America invented the Internet, but it became obvious to all of us in the mid-90's that we were not going to have an international Internet run by the Department of Commerce. That just wasn't going to work and we had some choices to make, and the choice we made—and I think it's proven to work very well—is to have private sector, multi-stakeholder governance of these core functions. And it's driven by engineers and technical people. And it's not just the generic top-level domain system. For IPv4 [Internet Protocol version 4] and IPv6 [Internet Protocol version 6] we have a non-governmental function that at that level are being managed by the ARIN [American Registry for Internet Numbers] and RIPE [Réseaux IP Européens / "European IP Networks"] in Europe and elsewhere. So this is not new. And I do think it's important that we stand up for what has worked because the alternative, which was the same alternative we really had in the 90's, was to try and have government control of this system. Now we have had discussions—ITU [International Telecommunication Union] had the conference in Dubai where authoritarian regimes openly discussed trying to take over all functions with an intent to subvert the free and open nature of the Internet. I think we can't have it both ways. Either we are for non-governmental, multi-stakeholder governance or we are for governmental governance. If it's the latter, I think we're walking into a very serious, bad problem, which is the agenda of authoritarian regimes to take over this. Now I am against government control of the Internet. I am against government regulation of the Internet. I think—and I come from Silicon Valley—all of the Internet companies that I am aware of are in favor of an open Internet. So I guess my question to you, Mr. Strickling, is do you know of any of the Internet companies that oppose what you are doing? Asst. Sec. Strickling: No, and in fact, we've gotten the support of the Internet Association, which is a trade association of many of those companies. Google and Facebook and Cisco have all issued strong statements of support for this, and I'm sure others that I just don't recall sitting here now. Rep. Lofgren: I know that Vint Cerf was at one time on the governing board of ICANN, along with other famous Internet evangelists. What does Vint Cerf say about this proposal? Asst. Sec. Strickling: Vint is a very strong supporter of this and has been quoted in the press multiple times over the last three or four weeks indicating his support for this. Rep. Lofgren: Well I would just urge—and I won't use all my time because we have another panel—but I think that it's important that this Committee stand up against the inaccuracies that have been promulgated out in the press by people. I assume they are working in good faith, but who misunderstand what's even being discussed here. And that we stand up for freedom on the Internet, which means standing up for multi-stakeholder governance and against government control and regulation of the Internet. That's what this is about. It's what the decision was about in 1998. I still remember the conversation I had with [then Rep.] Howard Berman at the time saying ‘you know it's not a good idea for the government to run this.' I think the Committee was of one mind at that time, and hopefully we are of the same mind at this point to preserve a free and open Internet. # # # Click here for more related video from this hearing
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Doris Matsui (CA-06) introduced the Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act today, legislation allowing Americans to invest in clean energy technologies and projects around the country that will create jobs and spur the rapidly growing field of clean energy technologies that will be needed to increase U.S. energy security. Patterned after the enormously successful victory bonds sold during World War II, Clean Energy Victory Bonds would allow Americans across the country to participate in the clean energy economy through safe investments that also help create jobs and protect the environment. "We all benefit as Americans when we invest in the future of our country," said Congresswoman Lofgren. "Individual citizens helped turn the tide in World War II with Victory Bonds, and we can do that again for the energy and environmental challenges we face by allowing folks to invest in innovative technologies that yield a profitable return for the investor and to society." "Investing in clean energy technology spurs economic development and job creation, protects our environment, and ensures that the United States remains a world leader in the clean energy economy," said Congresswoman Matsui. "By providing an opportunity to all Americans who support renewable energy to invest in proven technologies, Clean Energy Victory Bonds allows us to move forward towards a cleaner and more secure future for our nation." Under the Clean Energy Victory Bonds Act, the Treasury Department would issue small-denomination, specifically designated treasury bonds that are widely sold and promoted to fund and extend existing tax incentives and credits that encourage the growth of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. The bonds would be available for purchase by individuals for as little as $25 and the proceeds would result in: · The creation of up to $50 billion in direct investment that could be leveraged in proven incentives to accelerate the development of clean energy and clean energy technologies; · The creation of new jobs that put Americans back to work developing clean energy technologies and building clean energy projects in communities across the country; · Improving national security and driving increased investment into the U.S. domestic clean energy industry to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign sources of energy; · Allowing Americans a safe opportunity to invest in the future of their country and the health and well being of the environment. Click here for a summary of the Clean Energy Victory Bond Act. The text of the legislation can be found by clicking here. In addition to Reps Lofgren and Matsui, original co-sponsors of the Clean Victory Energy Bonds Act include (by alphabetical order) Reps. Lois Capps (D-CA-24), Tony Cardenas (D-CA-29), Matt Cartwright (D-PA-17), Judy Chu (D-CA-27), Katherine Clark (D-MA-5), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO-1), Rush Holt (D-NJ-12), Michael M. Honda (D-CA-17), Steve Israel (D-NY-3), George Miller (D-CA-11), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1), Mike Quigley (D-IL-5), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH-1), and Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3). # # #
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today during a joint hearing with the House Oversight and Government Reform National Security Subcommittee titled "Overturning 30 Years of Precedent: Is the Administration Ignoring the Dangers of Training Libyan pilots and Nuclear Scientists?" Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's Statement. Statement as delivered: Based on the letters that the Majority has sent to the Department of Homeland Security, as well as their opening statements today, I believe their concerns can be summarized as follows: the Libyan government is fragile, there are extremist elements in the region that would do us harm, so we can't lift the visa restriction because these people might somehow harm us. This argument, however, is entirely illogical. First, as the Department of Defense—which initiated the request to rescind the visa restriction in the first place—makes clear, the whole point of lifting the visa restriction is to help the Libyan government defeat those very extremists. Members on both sides of the aisle—including Republican Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and Saxby Chambliss—have recognized the critical importance of helping the new democratically elected Libyan government secure itself against militant extremism in the region. But the visa restriction actually stand in the way. Because the restriction affects all Libyans, it means we can't even train the pro-Western forces within the Libyan Air Force on the aircraft they need to secure their own country against extremist forces. The Libyan government's ability to fight such forces depends on being able to move troops and equipment throughout the country. And the country currently uses Lockheed C-130 military transport planes and Boeing CH-47 cargo helicopters to do that. But according to the Defense Department, the fleet is aging and needs repair and replacement, and many more pilots and flight crew need to be trained. There are proposals to buy additional aircraft and parts from U.S. companies and to provide training to pilots and flight crew, but the visa restriction stands in the way of those arrangements. Members on the other side of the aisle may raise the unfortunate attacks in Benghazi at this hearing today. But that event actually underscores why we should lift the visa restriction. On the night of the attack, it was one of those very same Lockheed C-130 transport planes that the Libyan government used to rescue and evacuate the surviving consular personnel at the U.S. compound in Benghazi. Rather than used against us, that plane helped Americans survive. Now, will my colleagues on the other side of the aisle nevertheless raise the Benghazi attack, as well as other terrorist incidents within Libya, as grounds for keeping the visa restriction in place? We must keep in mind that there is a difference between the extremist forces behind these incidents and the pro-Western Libyan military that is trying to defeat them. And that's the point of lifting the visa restriction. Like my Majority colleagues, it—the visa restriction—simply does not differentiate between the Libyan forces we are trying to help and the forces we are trying to defeat. It bars friend and foe alike, and that just isn't smart policy. It gets us to the second big reason we should rescind the visa restriction. It simply isn't needed to keep America safe from harm. We must bear in mind that the 30-year-old Libyan visa restriction is the only such country-specific visa ban of its kind. It's an anachronistic relic of a by-gone era. If a ban were necessary with respect to Libya—which is not designated a state sponsor of terrorism since the Bush Administration removed them from the list in 2006—wouldn't it be even more necessary with respect to countries that are actually designated as state sponsors of terrorism? Well those bans don't exist. There are no country-specific bans for Iran, Syria, Sudan, Cuba—the countries currently listed as state sponsors of terrorism. Nor is there a ban for rogue nations like North Korea. And that's because our immigration laws provide plenty of authority to prevent the travel of individuals who pose a danger to the U.S. and its interests. Our immigration laws already require the denial of visas to persons with suspected ties to terrorism, as well as anyone who is otherwise suspected of posing a threat to national security. Our immigration laws also require consular officials to deny visas for an individual whose travel raises significant foreign policy concerns. The same is true for any individual suspected of potentially violating the terms of their visa or admission to the U.S. Over the years, including after the attacks of September 11, 2001, this country has not seen fit to erect more country-specific restrictions like the Libyan visa ban. Instead, the U.S. moved in a very different direction—erecting bans that actually focused on whether admission of a particular individual was helpful or harmful to U.S. interests. In other words, we adopted policies that allowed us to let in our friends and to keep out our enemies, rather than barring them all. Doesn't that just make more sense? But, unfortunately, sense is rarely what congressional hearings are about these days. And I'm afraid all we will see today are scare tactics and political attacks on the administration. I hope not—I hope that my fear is not grounded. # # #
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) delivered the following remarks today during a House Committee on Administration markup hearing considering H.R. 863, legislation that would establish a commission to study the potential creation of a National Women's History Museum in Washington, D.C. The committee approved the legislation by voice vote: (remarks as delivered) I wanted to compliment the supporters, actually, in the private sector who helped bring us to this day. It was just a short of time ago, that you [Chairwoman Candice Miller (R-MI-10)] and I sat here, and we had the authors of the bill here. But we also had the people who worked so hard out in the community to get support, and to give us hope, that we'll actually be able to see this as a museum. So, I think this is a very important day. It's obviously just a first step, but it's an important first step, and I know that they are still committed to their efforts. We're going to count on them, and I see them here in the audience, and I wanted to note that. I agree with the Ranking Member [Robert Brady (D-PA-01)]. I hope that this can be a model for us, and that we'll be able to take similar swift action on the Latino Museum, which has actually been under consideration for a considerable period of time. If we had a hearing on that, maybe we'd have the same outcome on that. # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's remarks.
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on an effort begun by Democrats to give an up or down vote in the House on bipartisan immigration reform. With House Republicans continuing to block a vote on H.R. 15, the bipartisan Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, Democrats have begun a petition under the House rules to force a vote on the legislation: (remarks as delivered) What we are engaging on today has the potential of being truly historic. We need a vote on immigration reform. You know, several weeks ago I was home in the district I represent—I go home every week—and the Secretary of Commerce was visiting in Silicon Valley. She gave a good speech; after she finished her speech she invited questions. The very first question was from a young man, a scientist, who said this: I started a company, I'm about to hire four Americans, but my visa is up next month. What am I supposed to do? As I was talking to that young man, another young man came forward—another scientist who has just formed a company and is about to go into a hiring mode—but his visa was just about up. So when you take a look and listen to the people in Silicon Valley about the jobs that we're going to lose in America, because we have a dysfunctional immigration system, shows the problem we have allowed to fester. Recently I met with farmers and they told me that they are not planting crops this year because they can't identify who is going to pick those crops. About eighty percent of the migrant farm workers in America are here without their proper documents. Now do I think that's a good situation? No, I do not. But a number of years ago, when I chaired the Immigration Subcommittee, we had a wonderful witness, Dr. Richard Land—then the head of the Southern Baptist Convention—and this was his testimony: he said we had, for many years, two signs at the southern border. One sign that said ‘no trespassing' and the other sign said ‘help wanted.' And those farm workers who are here picking the vegetables that we will enjoy at our meals responded to that help wanted sign. Sometimes people say ‘well, you should do it in the legal way—get to the end of the line.' The truth is—and this is from someone who was a former immigration lawyer, I used to teach immigration law at the University of Santa Clara—there is no line to get into. We have created a dysfunctional system that does not serve American interests. Now H.R. 15 is not a perfect bill, no piece of legislation is. But it was a bill that attracted broad support in the United States Senate—bipartisan support in the United States Senate—and this discharge petition says just one thing: let's have a vote. Let's have a vote. Why would the Speaker of the House—why would the Republican Leadership—refuse to allow this body to have an up or down vote on that bill? A discharge petition is something that has been in the rules of the House for many, many decades. It has been used, occasionally in the past, to actually un-bottle up bills that the leadership didn't want the body to vote on. Most recently campaign finance reform came to the floor of the House because of a discharge petition. A lot of Members of the House say that they favor immigration reform. Well, here is an opportunity to hold every Member of this House accountable. If you favor reform of the immigration system, you should favor having an up or down vote on H.R. 15. If you favor an up or down vote, we expect you—no matter what your party registration—to sign this discharge petition so the House of Representatives may have an opportunity to address this question and vote yes or no on this bill. I hope that members of the public who are aware of the need for immigration reform—to reform a system that is not serving our economic interests, that is breaking up families and leaving children in foster care while their parents are deported—will call their Members of the House of Representatives and say ‘sign this discharge petition, it's in the rules, it's what we expect, we need a vote." # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's speech.
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), a senior member of the House Science Committee and a long time supporter of robust U.S scientific research, testified before the House Budget Committee on March 25, 2014, advocating for fully funding U.S. fusion research. Rep. Lofgren noted that despite the groundbreaking progress fusion research experiments at facilities like the National Ignition Facility (NIF) made this summer, those same research initiatives are now facing budget cuts in the President's FY 2015 budget proposal. Rep. Lofgren delivered the following remarks today urging her colleagues to fully support fusion research being undertaken at the national labs: (remarks as delivered): Mr. Chairman, and Congressman McDermott, it's my pleasure to be here today to testify before on the place for fusion research and development in our nation's budget. There is overwhelming evidence supporting R&D as a key to growing a vibrant economy, for national security in all its definitions, an educated workforce, and we need to continue that progress. I want to focus in on the role of fusion and fusion energy in that big picture about R&D growing our prosperity. We know our planet faces a climate crisis that demands we make every effort to conserve, reduce and switch energy sources. And we have to investigate all options. Should it be workable — and the physicists, as well as I, believe that it will be — fusion could be our most effective tool for addressing and preventing the worst effects of climate change. The history of fusion research in the United States is one of tremendous science and perpetually insufficient support. There is a long standing joke that fusion is 30 years away and it always will be. That's because we've actually had inconsistent support for the science. But the truth is we're actually way closer than that. Especially if we don't take our foot off of the accelerator. The rest of the world is catching up and we cannot cede the lead on fusion energy research. In order to maintain a strong, diversified scientific effort to understand and achieve fusion, we must make it a budget priority. That means robust funding for the Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration's National Ignition Facility (NIF) and Inertial Confinement Fusion and High Yield Campaign (ICF), as well as the Office of Science's Office of Fusion Energy Sciences (OFES). The National Ignition Facility, which is at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in the congressional district of Congressman Eric Swalwell, is the world's most powerful laser. It is a crucial tool in maintaining the safety of our nuclear stockpile without underground testing. It approximates the conditions within an exploding Hydrogen warhead, and it is also reveals new understandings of the physical world and will show a path towards clean, safe fusion energy. It took years and it took billions of dollars to build the National Ignition Facility. It's the envy of world physicists. And in just the past few months we've had ground breaking experiments that have been covered in peer reviewed science journals such as Nature — we are getting close. As the lead physicist at the NIF said, we don't yet have ignition yet, but we lit the match. We cannot afford to take our foot off of the accelerator now. Now, unfortunately, budget reductions have already resulted in 300 layoffs at the Lawrence Livermore Lab, 80 of them are scientists, and if we do additional layoffs we're not going to be able to keep up the science research that needs to happen. It's not just NIF, but ICF-companion facilities like the Z machine at Sandia National Labs and OMEGA at the University of Rochester are also pursuing parts of this cutting edge research. We need to make sure that the President's request—which actually is threatening to close brand new facilities like the NDCX-II at Berkeley National Lab, and older ones like the Alcator C-Mod at MIT—that his request not be honored in this case. It fails to keep up the even funding that we need. Now budgets, by their nature, are about making choices and we have many difficult choices. But we cannot choose to drop the ball on fusion energy research at this point. China and Russia are chasing us—we can't afford to let them overtake us. So I would urge that we maintain an even funding for fusion research for the future of the planet, for the competitiveness of the United States, and for the security that it also assures in avoiding nuclear testing. And with that, Mr. Chairman, Mr. McDermott, I thank you very greatly for listening to me. # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's statement.
03.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA-18) released a letter today from 11 Members of Congress to Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), urging the health agency to develop "plans for moving forward with a strong and fully supported research program" into the life-limiting Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS). In the letter, the lawmakers note that while "ME/CFS is a debilitating, complex condition affecting millions of patients…" it "…has not been taken as seriously as it should be, in part due to its name and the mistaken impression that the symptoms are psychosomatic." The lawmakers recognized the NIH for its efforts into ME/CFS research, education and awareness, and urged the agency to implement the recommendations of a 2011 NIH-ME/CFS Research Working Group while offering their support for NIH to develop longer term strategies to raise awareness, understanding, and to find a cure for ME/CFS. The letter was signed by Reps. Lofgren (CA-19), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Susan K. DelBene (WA-01), John Garamendi (CA-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Scott Peters (CA-52), John Lewis (GA-05), and Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC). The following is the text of the letter (pdf): Dr. Francis CollinsDirectorNational Institutes of HealthOne Center DriveBethesda, Maryland 20892 March 19, 2014 Dear Dr. Collins, We write to thank you for your attention to Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS), and to encourage you to continue and strengthen this effort. As you know ME/CFS is a debilitating, complex condition affecting millions of patients. It causes major suffering and costs individuals, the health care system and the economy greatly in both treatment and loss of productivity. It afflicts more people than many other diseases, including MS, AIDS, and Lyme disease that get much more funding and attention. As you may also know, this disease has not been taken as seriously as it should be, in part due to its name and the mistaken impression that the symptoms are psychosomatic. This lack of understanding has harmed patients who are sometimes mistreated or told their symptoms are not real. We understand it has hindered research by discouraging scientists from pursing investigations in an area where they may not be taken seriously. It is an ongoing problem and we encourage you as Director of NIH to help raise awareness and attention among clinicians and researchers. We applaud your efforts to support the Trans-NIH ME/CFS Research Working Group, and in hosting the ME/CFS Research Workshop in April 2011. The Workshop concluded that there continues to be a need for additional interdisciplinary research, coordination of research, centralized data sharing, and recruitment of additional qualified investigators. These suggestions are in line with the recommendations of the HHS CFS Advisory Committee, including an NIH RFA in the range of $7-10 million. We encourage you to act decisively on these recommendations. We also ask that you provide us with the current status of the effort to meet the need in ME/CFS research, as well as plans for moving forward with a strong and fully supported research program. Thank you in advance for your attention to this issue. We look forward to working with you to raise awareness, understand this disease and find a cure. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Susan K. DelBene (WA-01)John Garamendi (CA-03) Eric Swalwell (CA-15)Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Daniel Lipinski (IL-03)Scott H. Peters (CA-52) John Lewis (GA-05)Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) # # #
02.24.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) announced today that the BART to Silicon Valley Project–Berryessa Extension will receive $141 million in grant funding from the Federal Transit Administration. The three Members of Congress have been key supporters of the transportation project, which was announced in a March 2012 signing celebration. The grant includes funding to purchase 40 new vehicles, build traction power substations, put in place necessary communication systems, and construct parking facilities. "Santa Clara County voters really deserve the credit because they made the smart vote to invest a sales tax bump towards infrastructure that helped us secure $900 million in federal funding," said Rep. Lofgren. "As the Valley grows, this kind of investment in public infrastructure will pay big dividends for our community with improved public transportation and economic benefits for decades to come." "The additional $141 million in federal grant money to extend BART to the South Bay puts Santa Clara County residents in the home stretch of a project decades in the making," Rep. Eshoo said. "Investment in our South Bay transportation infrastructure now will help us keep up with the region's booming growth. It will relieve congestion, mitigate pollution, and benefit Valley and Bay Area residents." "The BART Silicon Valley Project is critical to the connectivity of the entire Bay Area rail transportation system," Rep. Honda said. "This extension will enhance regional commuter connectivity and alleviate traffic congestion. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I fought to ensure that there was enough funding in the Fiscal Year 2014 omnibus appropriations bill to deliver this funding this year. With work progressing on time and under budget, this extension promises to enhance regional commuter connectivity and alleviate congestion, while also creating much needed jobs." The BART to Silicon Valley project is a multi-phase extension of the existing BART system to San Jose, Milpitas and Santa Clara. The first phase is the $2.1 billion Berryessa Extension, a 10-mile, two station project beginning south of the future Warm Springs Station in Freemont through Milpitas and ending in the Berryessa area north of San Jose. When completed, the extension will provide increased transit access to and from Santa Clara employment centers for both Santa Clara residents and residents throughout the San Francisco Bay area. # # #
02.21.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Eric Swalwell (CA-15) led a letter (pdf) to President Barack Obama urging strong and sustained funding for the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) as he prepares his FY 2015 budget. The NIF is the world's most powerful laser and the preeminent research tool in the world for inertial confinement fusion research. NIF is conducting research key for stockpile stewardship and developing clean, safe, and plentiful fusion energy. "The physics world is buzzing about NIF's groundbreaking results," Congresswoman Lofgren said. "The NIF is the most powerful and advanced facility of this kind in the world. As they achieve new milestones, this isn't the time for us to take our foot of the pedal when the world is racing to be the first to achieve fusion ignition—we should be accelerating our effort." "NIF is closer than ever to ignition and carbon free energy," said Congressman Swalwell. "In recent weeks NIF has achieved several record-breaking shots where more energy was released from the fuel than put into it. As we reach these milestones, I trust the President will recognize in his budget the need to reaffirm our nation's commitment to this research, rather than retreating and ceding this scientific field to China and Russia." Unlike current nuclear fission power, which produces radioactive waste, fusion harnesses the same reaction powering the sun and other stars. The NIF recently delivered a fusion breakthrough when the energy generated through a fusion reaction exceeded the amount of energy deposited into the fusion fuel. By using lasers to trigger a fusion reaction in very small amounts of hydrogen fuel, fusion may ultimately promise a new clean, carbon dioxide-free energy source that could end our dependency on other power sources. They were joined on the letter by Reps. Julia Brownley (CA-26), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), John Garamendi (CA-3), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Mike Honda (CA-17), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Jim McDermott (WA-7), Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Scott Peters (CA-52), Adam Schiff (CA-26), Jackie Speier (CA-14) and Mike Thompson (CA-5). The text of the letter is below: President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave NWWashington, DC 20500-0001 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our support for the National Ignition Facility (NIF) funded under the National Nuclear Security Administration's (NNSA) Inertial Confinement Fusion and High Yield Campaign (ICF). As you are preparing your fiscal year (FY) 2015 budget, we request that you include strong and sustained funding for the NIF and ICF activities at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL). The NIF – a critical facility for NNSA, LLNL and the scientific stockpile stewardship program – is a credit to the continued strength of the U.S. scientific community. In the past ten years alone, the NIF has received 16 of R&D Magazine's prestigious R&D 100 Awards including two in the last 12 months. In 2013, the National Research Council of the National Academies released the results of a two-year study emphasizing the importance of inertial fusion energy research and spotlighting the NIF as a critical research facility. It was named the Project Management Institute's Project of the Year in 2010 in recognition of the tremendous scientific and engineering achievement building and operating the NIF represents and the partnership of government, industry, and academia that made it happen. Just within the past few months, the NIF has recorded several record-breaking experimental shots. These newest results bring the experimental findings more closely in line with the theoretical models, highlighting a promising path forward for more groundbreaking high energy density physics. It is critical that we provide the resources necessary to continue this important work. The ongoing work of LLNL and the groundbreaking research being done at the NIF continue to ensure that the U.S. can abide by our moratorium on nuclear testing while maintaining a secure stockpile. Research conducted at the NIF also helps bring us towards a new energy future as we come closer to unlocking the potential of fusion energy. To ensure the U.S. continues to lead, it is critical to build upon the substantial investments already made and provide the NIF with funding that is stable and sufficient to carry out its mission and continue to advance ICF research. We ask that as you craft your budget, you will keep the role and importance of the NIF in mind. We look forward to working with you to maintain our nuclear stockpile, advance the frontiers of scientific discovery, and invest in the energy of the future through ICF research and development. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19)Julia Brownley (CA-26)Tony Cárdenas (CA-29)Rosa DeLauro (CT-3)Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18)John Garamendi (CA-3)Rush Holt (NJ-12)Mike Honda (CA-17)Barbara Lee (CA-13)Doris Matsui (CA-6)Jim McDermott (WA-7)Jerry McNerney (CA-9)Scott Peters (CA-52)Adam Schiff (CA-26)Jackie Speier (CA-14)Mike Thompson (CA-5) # # #
02.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) released a letter today to Jeh Johnson, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), regarding the attack on PG&E's Metcalf power substation. The three Silicon Valley Representatives have been closely monitoring investigations since the aftermath of the attack. In the letter, they seek an update from DHS on its investigation and recommendations the agency has developed following the incident. The following is the full text of the letter, which can also be viewed by clicking here: February 20, 2014 The Honorable Jeh Johnson, SecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityNebraska Avenue Complex3801 Nebraska Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We're writing with regard to last year's attack on PG&E's Metcalf transmission substation in Silicon Valley. This was a very serious incident that clearly demonstrated the threat to, and the vulnerability of our physical infrastructure. As Members of Congress who represent Silicon Valley, we have a strong interest in ensuring the security of our region's critical infrastructure as well as in preventing similar attacks from occurring elsewhere. Although the damage from the Metcalf incident was largely contained, the potential for a catastrophic attack impacting both our electric grid and communications infrastructure is evident. As we understand it, rolling blackouts throughout our region were narrowly averted. The Metcalf attack, while sophisticated, was relatively small. A larger attack is not difficult to imagine and the effects could be crippling. Many of our critical national security assets are dependent on a secure and reliable electric grid, as are the families and businesses in our districts. In fact, the San Francisco Bay Area has the nation's highest GDP per capita and would rank just behind Switzerland (19th) as a national economy. The region contains more Fortune 500 companies than any other U.S. region aside from New York; has the highest level of patent generation in the country; and has an economic productivity almost twice the national average. A successfully executed attack on our local infrastructure would impact not only our region, but our country as a whole. We respectfully request a summary of DHS's work in responding to the Metcalf incident to date, including: 1) Initial emergency response; 2) Post-incident work (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) related to improving processes for critical infrastructure protection, emergency mitigation, coordination with other authorities and stakeholders; 3) Any improvements already identified (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) and status of improvements; 4) Recommendations for additional improvements (internally or with other agencies or private entities); 5) Guidance as to whether Congressional action may be useful/necessary in streamlining agency processes and improving efficiency. We thank you in advance for your cooperation and respectfully request a response by Friday, March 14, 2014. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18)Mike Honda (CA-17) # # #
02.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Nine members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), chaired by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released a letter today to University of California President Janet Napolitano encouraging Napolitano to reconsider a recent decision to terminate funding for the Lick Observatory located on Mt. Hamilton. The following is the full text of the letter, which can also be viewed by clicking here: February 20, 2014 Janet NapolitanoPresidentUniversity of California1111 Franklin StreetOakland, CA 94607-5200 Dear President Napolitano, We write in support of the work of Lick Observatory on Mt. Hamilton, and to encourage you to reconsider the proposal to terminate all University of California funding of the Observatory by 2018. Without this University funding, the telescopes will shutter. This valuable University of California facility still has an important role to play in fundamental astronomical research, training of undergraduate and graduate students, and public outreach and need not succumb to shortsighted budget cutting. This tremendous scientific facility just celebrated its 125th anniversary. In that time it has revolutionized the design and siting of astronomical observatories. It has made historic cosmological discoveries and has been a source of inspiration and education for countless students and astronomers. But Lick Observatory's time is not passed. It is still an enormously valuable teaching and research tool, providing access to cutting edge research and validation for students and faculty right in the heart of California. While the Keck Telescopes may be newer, Lick is within 100 miles of five of the ten UC Campuses, and provides in-state access to powerful telescopes for all students and astronomers across the UC system. The proximity of the Observatory adds huge value to the researchers and their students who get hands-on access to a modern astronomical observatory. Lick Observatory performs cutting-edge science at a very reasonable cost. This is thanks to equipment upgrades like the Automated Planet Finder (finished in 2013), which is a key part of the broader search for earth-like planets that might support life; the KAIT telescope, which automatically scans the skies for supernovas to provide timely study of these phenomenal explosions; and the development of astronomical adaptive optics systems, which are now a staple of all large ground-based telescopes. It would be wasteful to squander these investments and capabilities that make Lick a world class observatory. The collaboration between the Keck telescopes and Lick in developing technology, techniques and students, has made the University of California system a world leader in observational astrophysics. Losing Lick Observatory as a local partner threatens the future competitiveness of the Keck Telescopes and the planned Thirty Meter Telescope project. While we certainly understand the constraints of tight budgets, it would be short-sighted to pinch pennies by shutting down this exemplary facility. We encourage you to reconsider the plan to phase out UC funding for Lick Observatory. Visit it; see the research that is occurring; speak with the astronomers and students from across UC that are actively performing research at the observatory. Ultimately, we hope it can be preserved to continue its remarkable history and ongoing mission probing the mysteries of our universe and inspiring new generations of California scientists. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19)Sam Farr (CA-20) Mike Honda (CA-17)Anna Eshoo (CA-18)Barbara Lee (CA-13) Juan Vargas (CA-51)Susan Davis (CA-53)Eric Swalwell (CA-15)Adam B. Schiff (CA-28) # # #
02.11.2014	Rep Zoe Lofgren Statement on Immigration Reform and House GOP Hearing on Alleged Fraud in U.S. Asylum Programs WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement during a subcommittee hearing today titled "Asylum Fraud: Abusing America's Compassion?": Statement as delivered (click here for video): Thank you Mr. Chairman [Gowdy]. I appreciate your comments recognizing the importance of the asylum system. America really stands as a beacon of hope and freedom around the world. And part of being that beacon of hope and freedom is our refugee program and our asylum program. Really, if you think back to the origins of the current asylum program, it was really put into shape after World War Two. When, much to our continuing shame, the United States turned away Jewish refugees who were fleeing Hitler who were then returned to Germany, and who died in concentration camps. That was a wakeup call to the world, and to the United States, and we put in place our asylum system. Recently there has been discussion of broad immigration reform and I was encouraged that there might be some opportunity to move forward on a bipartisan basis. I still have that hope. But there's been concern expressed about immigration reform and the President – which I think is quite misplaced since the President has removed 2 million people in his first five years in office, more than President Bush removed in his eight years in office – and there is vigorous enforcement of the immigration laws. But I also think that there is concern, and I've discussed this with the Chairman, and I think I understand the origin with the title of this hearing and the allegation—not by the Chairman, but by some—that this is a system racked with fraud. Recently the Washington Times did a report citing an internal assessment of the asylum system prepared by USCIS—but the report was from 2009—and they said that the "Audit finds the asylum system rife with fraud." That is actually a gross mischaracterization of the USCIS assessment, and the odd thing is that the 2009 report was actually an assessment of what was going on in the year 2005, a number of years before President Obama was actually elected president. So I think it's important that we deal with the facts. Certainly the asylum system is not perfect—no system is that we as people can design. We always want to improve our situation, but we need to also recognize that the systems in place in 2005 are not the same as today. We need to get the facts out and recognize that the USCIS has done a great deal since 2005 to combat fraud, including: (1) placing fraud detection officers at all asylum offices; (2) placing fraud detection officers overseas to aid in overseas document verification; (3) hiring document examiners and increasing the capacity to do forensic testing of documents; (4) providing its officers access to numerous additional databases to assist in fraud detection; and (5) entering into additional information-sharing agreements with foreign governments to combat fraud. I am happy to support smart changes that further assist USCIS to eliminate fraud and advance its mission to assess asylum claims in a fair and timely manner. These changes, I think, could include: hiring additional asylum and fraud detection officers to reduce backlogs, balance workloads, and expand the infrastructure for investigating potential fraud in asylum applications; dedicating additional personnel and resources to overseas document verification so that all investigative requests are completed in a timely manner; taking steps to ensure ICE actually investigates referrals from USCIS fraud detection officers concerning asylum fraud; ensuring that ICE and DOJ dedicate appropriate resources to fully prosecute persons and groups that defraud the immigration system; and finally: assisting USCIS to expand training with respect to detecting and investigating fraud in asylum and other immigration applications. But we should make these changes—not with our hair on fire—but because as we address abuse, we must also address the many ways that the current system fails to protect legitimate and vulnerable refugees. We must ensure, for example, that our immigration courts are properly staffed and resourced. As funding for enforcement skyrocketed in recent years, funding for the courts lagged far behind, leading to massive backlogs. These delays both increase the potential for fraud and prevent timely protection for legitimate refugees. Adequate resources are essential for maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of the system. I also think we should reconsider the one-year filing deadline, which is barring bona fide refugees from receiving asylum while undermining the efficiency of the asylum system. The deadline doesn't bar cases because they are fraudulent; it bars them based on the date they are filed, regardless of the applicant's claim. And we certainly know of cases – such as a Christian woman who was tortured and abused whose valid claim was denied because of this arbitrary standard. We need to take a look at that. Our country can strengthen the integrity of its immigration system and also provide asylum to refugees in a timely, fair and efficient manner. This fair and balanced approach is consistent with this country's values and commitments and I believe it's something all of us on this committee can embrace. Certainly none of us want to have a fraudulent situation, but we do want to maintain our nation's status as a beacon of light and freedom in the world. # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's Statement
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and an original sponsor of the bipartisan USA FREEDOM Act [hyperlink], released the following statement today in support of "The Day We Fight Back" protest against overreaching government surveillance programs: "I stand in unity with the growing chorus of citizens across the country who want secretive mass data collection and surveillance activities against Americans ended," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "When Americans spoke out against SOPA, Congress listened. It may take that kind of effort to pass needed reforms like the USA FREEDOM Act. Unwarranted mass collection of Americans data does not make us safer and can impair our Constitutional rights. We can be safe while still complying with the Constitution of the United States." Click here to learn more about Rep. Lofgren's work on privacy, technology and innovation. # # #
01.31.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), released the following greetings in celebrating 2014 as the Year of the Horse on the Lunar New Year. Video of the greeting can be found by clicking here: "As we mark the Lunar New Year, we're also reminded of the many contributions of Asian Americans who enrich our community and strengthen the fabric of our society. "This is especially true for me. I'm proud to represent the city of San Jose and Santa Clara County in California — home to one of the largest, most diverse, and most vibrant Asian-Pacific American communities in our country. "As we celebrate the Year of the Horse, I wish you and your loved ones happiness, prosperity, and good health in the year ahead. "Chúc m?ng n?m m?i!" # # #
01.31.2014	SAN JOSE, CA — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced today that California's 19th Congressional District, which encompasses much of Silicon Valley's Santa Clara County, including parts of San Jose, Morgan Hill and Gilroy, will take part in the first annual nationwide House Student App Challenge to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition. In announcing the competition, she encouraged interested high school students in the 19th district to compete in the challenge to develop innovative software applications, better known as "apps." "It's become part of the lexicon to say 'there's an app for that,' and increasingly the world connects through mobile devices and cloud computing," said Rep. Lofgren. "The digital age is this century's New Frontier, offering both challenges and opportunities. At the same time we are facing a growing shortage of STEM graduates even as the next decade is expected to create more than 8 million STEM job opportunities. I'm hopeful that this competition will encourage students to tap their creativity in developing their own app and inspire them to venture further into STEM fields." The House Student App Challenge is open to all high school students located in the 19th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the competition submission period between February 1, 2014 and April 30, 2014. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM education fields, the competition is part of a nationwide challenge that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Congress has used competitive initiatives to encourage and recognize student talent and achievement, including through the annual Congressional Art Competition which has been held since 1982. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here on Rep. Lofgren's website and at StudentAppChallenge.house.gov. # # #
01.30.2014	SAN JOSE, CA – Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee's Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, issued a statement in response to the released "Standards for Immigration Reform" that House Republicans are debating during a policy retreat this week: "It's clear we need a reasonable and enforceable immigration system that keeps our country safe, keeps families together, and permits immigrants with drive and desire to help our nation prosper. "While the ‘principles' released by Speaker Boehnner indicate an interest in reform, it's important to note that principles are very broad statements that do not reveal much detail. Those details matter and I look forward to working across party lines for immigration reform. "I hope this is the start of a longer process of crafting legislation that can be examined, debated, and given a fair vote. From the right to the left, the economic, security, and moral arguments for immigration reform have all been made. Americans want top to bottom reform and they want to see Congress come together to fix our broken immigration system. Let's get this done." # # #
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Sixteen members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), chaired by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following letter today urging Governor Jerry Brown to seek assistance and relief for the state's drought offered under the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, more commonly known as the Omnibus Bill. The following is the full text of the letter which can also be viewed by clicking here: January 16, 2014 The Honorable Edmund G. Brown, Jr. Governor State of California State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, CA 95814 Subject: Recent Passage of the Emergency Drought Relief Act and Requesting the Declaration of a Drought Emergency. Dear Governor Brown: As members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, we would like to commend you for your leadership on California water issues and look forward to working with you on addressing the California Drought. On January 15, 2014, the House passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, which is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed by the President later this week. Included in the Act are several provisions important to the management of California's water resources. We are strong supporters of Section 206 of the bill that reauthorizes the Bureau of Reclamation's Emergency Drought Relief Act program. The Emergency Drought Relief Act provides the Bureau of Reclamation with authorities to help minimize or mitigate drought damages and loss in the West. These authorities include the construction of temporary facilities, the drilling of wells, and the ability to issue contracts to move non-project water on project facilities. The Act also helps to facilitate water transfers from willing sellers to willing buyers, and allows Reclamation to work with states to prepare drought contingency plans. However, the authorities under this Act do not occur automatically. The Governor must first issue a drought declaration in the state prior to the Secretary of the Interior determining whether assistance is merited. Given that the most recent Department of Water Resources snowpack survey showed that the snowpack is 20% of normal, we must ensure that the federal agencies have the authorities to take action. Congress has taken the necessary steps, and we respectfully ask that you declare a drought emergency so that these provisions are put in place right away. Sincerely, Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3) Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-6) Rep. Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Rep. Sam Farr (CA-20) Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41) Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2) Rep. George Miller (CA-31) Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-5) # # #
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the Chair of the 38-member California Democratic Congressional Delegation, delivered the following testimony today before a hearing on California's High Speed Rail project by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials: (Remarks as delivered; you can also view video of these remarks by clicking here) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Ranking Member Brown, for allowing my colleagues to appear before you today. As the Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation — the largest and most diverse delegation in the Congress comprised of 38 Members — I'm here to reaffirm our strong support for the California High Speed Rail Project. That's because as our economy improves, and as our population grows, our transportation infrastructure is falling further behind. As many of us know, the transportation infrastructure is already in very serious need of upgrading in California. Our air corridors between San Francisco and Los Angeles, as mentioned by the Ranking Member, are among the busiest in the country. Our highway congestion is high and we know that the lost time and fuel wasted in traffic costs Californians an estimated $18.7 billion each year. As we watch our population grow, and the estimate as Ms. Brown has said, we will have 51 million people by 2050. We know that we will need to have the capacity to move people north and south. Without the high speed rail project, it's been estimated that we would need to build over 4,000 new highway lane miles, 115 new airport gates and four new runways just to keep up with demand. And we know that's just not possible. Anyone who has been to California understands that this is not a practical solution. But high speed rail has the potential to transform our state and help meet that need—and in the process of helping the country's largest state economy, boost our country as well. The California High Speed Rail project is the largest and most ambitious infrastructure project of our time. When completed, it is going to be able to provide the transportation that our state needs. Now Californians, including folks in my home district of San Jose, are going to see immediate benefits from this project. It invests $1.5 billion in the Caltrain Modernization Program, which will replace Caltrain's diesel trains with electric trains on the Peninsula Corridor. According to a recent Economic Impact Report by the Bay Area Council—a premium business group in the Bay Area—the project will create over 9,500 jobs, with over 90% being in the Bay Area. The Bay Area Council also say that high speed rail will increase our state's bottom line as state and local revenues will see an increase of $71 million during the construction phase. And we also know from the business group that neighborhoods near Caltrain will also see an increase in property value by as much as $1 billion. As good stewards of the environment, Californians by and large also agree that we must make critical infrastructure investments that connect our communities and reduce carbon emissions, while keeping our economy strong. Electrifying Caltrain will make its operation quieter and reduce air pollution by 90% and lower energy consumption by 64% because electric trains are less noisy and more cost effective to run. Now, despite the overwhelming arguments for the need benefits of high speed rail, this project, as we know, has detractors. In its first days, the project had a rocky start before the current management team was put in place. And that led some to say the project is too large, others disputed the high speed rail project's business plans and the like. That's why I joined Chairman Denham in asking the GAO—the independent and non-partisan auditors—to conduct a thorough review of the high speed rail project and its cost estimates, the project's funding plan, and the passenger ridership and revenues forecast. And last spring, the GAO came back with its report and gave the California High Speed Rail Authority high marks for its cost estimates, ridership estimates, and funding plan. The GAO also made some noteworthy observations, saying that the greatest challenge before California's high speed rail project is not whether it can be done, but whether it will be funded, particularly on the federal level in order to attract much needed private investment. That certainly continues to haunt the project because investors question whether the federal support will be there in the future. It's also one of the reasons why the California High Speed Rail Authority's very realistic and responsible business plan is building the project in phases. However, based on experiences in other countries, and positive ridership estimates by the GAO, it seems likely that the private sector will invest in the project if it is allowed to move forward. It will take both public and private support at all levels to make high speed rail in California a reality. The people of California, as has been noted, have already voted in support of it, and taxpayer's dollars have already been invested in it, including $3.3 billion in federal grants. Just this week, Governor Jerry Brown announced his state budget, pledging $250 million in Cap and Trade revenues for high speed rail, while laying out continued funding for the project in following years. Given the environmental benefits both short-term and long-term, using Cap and Trade funds for this project is very appropriate, and our delegation would like to commend Governor Brown for his leadership on high speed rail. We know high speed rail can work in America if it is given a chance to succeed. As the GAO noted in its report, several private consortiums were preparing bids for a high speed rail project in Florida before that state's governor pulled the plug. And as recently as January 9th, the Washington Post reported that Japan is seriously interested in developing a high speed rail line between Washington [D.C.] and Baltimore [Maryland], even offering to foot half of the projected $8 billion it would cost to build. You know, our global competitors aren't holding back on their high speed rail infrastructure. And that's because around the world, high speed rail has been shown to be an effective, popular and profitable mode of transportation. When it comes to transportation, I believe the United States should be second to none. It was solid investments in infrastructure that helped make the 20th Century the American Century. And California's High Speed Rail project can help continue that kind of success for our country in the century to come. # # #
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the five women who sit on the House Judiciary Committee, Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Karen Bass (D-CA) sent a letter to Judiciary Committee Chair Bob Goodlatte denouncing his decision to hold the first mark-up of 2014 on a divisive bill to restrict women's access to reproductive health care. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (H.R. 7) would impose sweeping changes to current law to impede women's access to abortion coverage nationwide. "As we urge Congress in 2014 to consider legislative action that would meaningfully address the economic insecurity currently facing millions of women and families, the Judiciary Committee's first action to mark up legislation that would harm women's access to reproductive health care is truly dispiriting," wrote the members. "Before reporting out another piece of legislation to limit women's constitutionally protected right to make informed health care decisions about their own bodies with their own doctors, we respectfully ask you to ensure that there has been careful consideration of the impact this bill will have on women's health…It is clear to us that H.R. 7's denial of abortion coverage to women will put some women's health at serious risk." The text of the signed letter, which can be found by clicking here, follows: January 14, 2014 Chairman Bob Goodlatte House Judiciary Committee 2138 Rayburn HOB Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Goodlatte, As we begin the second session of the 113th Congress, we write to express our disappointment that you have chosen H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, as the subject of the first full committee mark-up, at a time when more pressing bipartisan work is needed on an actual women's legislative agenda. According to the Shriver Report released just this week, one in three American women, 42 million women, plus 28 million children, either live in poverty or on the brink of it. As we urge Congress in 2014 to consider legislative action that would meaningfully address the economic insecurity currently facing millions of women and families, the Judiciary Committee's first action to mark up legislation that would harm women's access to reproductive health care is truly dispiriting. We strongly oppose this sweeping anti-choice bill, which would deny premium tax credits to income-eligible men, women and families if insurance they obtain under the Affordable Care Act covers abortion except in the limited cases of rape, incest, and when a woman's life is in danger. It would also impose an unprecedented tax penalty on individuals and small employers who use their own money to pay for abortion or to purchase insurance that would cover abortion. The narrow exceptions to this bill allow for abortion coverage only for rape and incest or for conditions that put a woman in danger of death. This fails to address the need for access to abortion coverage for a woman whose health is seriously threatened by a pregnancy and may need an abortion to protect her health, but may not be in danger of imminent death. It is clear to us that H.R. 7's denial of abortion coverage to women will put some women's health at serious risk. This bill goes far beyond current harmful legislative policy riders that restrict the use of federal funds for abortion by making these dangerous provisions permanent. In addition, under the Affordable Care Act health plans are already required to withhold federal funds from going toward abortion coverage in a Marketplace plan and require plans to use only private dollars for abortion coverage. The effect of these current limitations disproportionately and negatively affect low-income and minority women's ability to get the coverage they need. Before reporting out another piece of legislation to limit women's constitutionally protected right to make informed health care decisions about their own bodies with their own doctors, we respectfully ask you to ensure that there has been careful consideration of the impact this bill will have on women's health. Sincerely, Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA) Rer. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) Rep. Shelia Jackson-Lee (D-TX) ###
12.12.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement during the last hearing of the House Judiciary Committee in 2013, titled "Asylum Abuse: Is it Overwhelming our Borders?":(as delivered) Five years ago, I became part of an increasingly rare process in the House of Representatives—a large group of lawmakers. We met once or twice a week, sometimes more often, to try and devise a plan to fix our broken immigration system. And although that process went on hiatus for much of the last Congress, we renewed our efforts last fall and worked hard until just a few months ago when several Republicans in the group—for whom I have a great deal of respect—announced their departure from the group. That process may not have borne fruit—not yet, at least—but at least it was something. I'm afraid that when it comes to immigration, the work this Committee has done over the past year has not moved the ball forward. Hope springs eternal, however, and when I return for the next session in January I will come ready to work. But back to today's topic. Before I address the question put to us by the title of this hearing I think it's important to review how our current expedited removal and credible fear processes came about and what they are. In 1996, Congress enacted the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA). I voted against the bill in Committee, I voted against it on the Floor, and I voted against it when it came out of conference. I believed then, as now, that the bill was a mean-spirited bill that would do drastic damage to immigrants and our immigration system. One of the most pernicious aspects of that law was the creation of expedited removal, which allows people apprehended at our ports, along the borders, and – in some cases – in the interior to be deported with little due process. As Congress recognized at that time, expedited removal posed the real danger that bona fide asylum seekers would be summarily removed from the country to face persecution and torture abroad. In an effort to prevent that unacceptable outcome, the law required that every person subject to expedited removal be screened to determine whether they express a fear of returning to their home country. If so, the law required that except in very limited circumstances they be detained until a trained Asylum Officer could interview them and determine whether or not they possessed a "credible fear" of persecution. We defined "credible fear" at that time to mean that there is a "significant possibility, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien's claim and such other facts as are known to the officer, that the alien could establish eligibility for asylum." This is a lower standard than the "well-founded fear" standard that applies to a final decision on the merits of an asylum claim, and that was our intention. We understood that it can be nearly impossible to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution just days after arriving in the country, and setting the bar too high would lead to unconscionable results. After the bill became law, we heard a wave of complaints regarding the effect that expedited removal was having on asylum seekers. And just two years later, Congress enacted the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 and we established the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) – an independent body whose Commissioners are appointed by the President and the Congressional leadership of both parties. In that very first authorizing statute, Congress asked the commission to study the impact of expedited removal on people fleeing persecution. The commission issued its study in 2005 and concluded that because of expedited removal "and its serious flaws, the United States' tradition of protecting asylum seekers – not to mention those asylum seekers' lives – continues to be at risk." One of the most striking findings had to do with ICE's practice of paroling people out of detention. Policy guidance clearly authorized parole after an applicant had demonstrated a credible fear, had also established his or her identity, and had also showed that he or she posed neither a flight risk nor a danger to the community. But while one ICE field office paroled 97.7 percent of applicants, another paroled just 0.5 percent. So it was recommended by the commission that the issuance of regulations to promote consistency. Now I want to turn to the question of today's hearing: "Asylum Abuse: Is it Overwhelming our Borders?" Let's analyze that. First, are our borders overwhelmed? By historical measures the answer is clearly no. Although we've seen an increase in attempted border crossings along our southwest border over the past two years, this is an increase from what appears to be a 40-year low just two years ago. And given the increases we have made in manpower and infrastructure at the border, there is no way to argue that they are more overwhelmed today than they have been for much of our recent history. Second, are some parts of our border overwhelmed? I hope to learn more about that today, but there is no question that we've seen a sharp increase in people expressing a fear of being returned to their home countries. There were 5,369 claims of credible fear in Fiscal Year 2009; more than double that number, 13,880 in Fiscal Year 2012; and nearly triple that number, 36,035 this past fiscal year. Still, to keep things in perspective: only a small fraction of the people apprehended at and in between our ports express such a fear. The overwhelming majority of people subject to expedited removal are removed from the country in a short period of time. So the final part of the question is whether the recent increase is the result of asylum abuse. And the truth is that we don't yet know—we can't yet know. The cases that are driving the increase in Fiscal Year 2013 have largely not yet been adjudicated by the immigration courts. As this Committee has documented time and time again, the case backlog in our courts—caused primarily by inadequate investment in new judges, support personnel, and facilities—is preventing cases from being resolved in an acceptable timeframe. We do know a few things, however. The increase in credible fear claims is being driven by people from Central America—65% of the claims in FY13 came from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. Although claims by Mexicans have increased, Mexicans still make up only 7 percent of all credible fear claims. Also, more than three-quarters of the claims are coming from people apprehended between the ports, not at the ports. Since people apprehended between the ports are not eligible for parole under the parole directive issued by ICE in 2009, this provides strong evidence that the directive itself is not drawing people to come here. Something is, in fact, going on. The number of people claiming a credible fear of persecution or torture definitely increased in the last two years. But whether that is the result of better fear screenings, efforts to defraud the system, or a brewing refugee crisis in the Western Hemisphere is something we still need to explore. Prejudging that question, I believe, is dangerous and unwise. I look forward to learning from our witnesses and I thank each of them for appearing today. # # # Video from today's hearing can be viewed by clicking here.
12.12.2013	Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, introduced the Video CHOICE (Consumers Have Options in Choosing Entertainment) Act to eliminate broadcast television blackouts and give consumers greater flexibility to choose the channels they receive each month from their cable, satellite or other pay-TV provider. "During the three months since I released draft legislation – the message from individuals, communications companies and consumer groups has been abundantly clear: our video laws are in need of reform," said Rep. Eshoo. "My bill would put an end to broadcast television blackouts and ensure consumers aren't held hostage by a dispute they have no control over. Recurring TV blackouts coupled with the rising cost of broadcast television programming has left consumers frustrated and looking to Congress and the FCC for answers. "To add insult to injury, consumers have begun seeing these programming increases in the form of below-the-line-fees on their monthly bills." Rep. Eshoo continued, "I look forward to working with Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA) and the leadership of the House Energy & Commerce Committee to advance meaningful bipartisan reform that promotes healthy competition, consumer choice and continued innovation across the video marketplace." "Internet users and television customers should not be held hostage when business negotiation disputes arise between cable and content providers," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "It's unfair to subject consumers to service blackouts or blocked online content. This bill offers the basic consumer protections and choices they should receive in television and online services." The Video CHOICE Act has five key provisions: 1. Preventing Broadcast Television Blackouts: Gives the FCC explicit statutory authority to grant interim carriage of a television broadcast station during a retransmission consent negotiation impasse. 2. Ensuring Consumer Choice in Cable Programming: Ensures that a consumer can purchase cable television service without subscribing to the broadcast stations electing retransmission consent. 3. Wholesale Unbundling of Broadcast Stations in Retransmission Consent Negotiations: Prohibits a television broadcast station engaged in a retransmission consent negotiation from making their owned or affiliated cable programming a condition for receiving broadcast programming. 4. Examination into the Blocking of a Broadcast Station's Owned or Affiliated Online Content During Retransmission Consent Negotiations: Instructs the FCC to examine whether the blocking of a television broadcast station's owned or affiliated online content during a retransmission consent negotiation constitutes a failure to negotiate in "good faith." 5. FCC Study of Sports Programming Costs: Calls for an FCC study of programming costs for regional and national sports networks in the top 20 regional sports markets. A copy of the bill can be found here. # # #
12.11.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) began fasting today for immigration reform as part of "Fast 4 Families: A Call for Immigration Reform and Citizenship." For more than 30 days a group of advocates has been fasting on the National Mall in front of the U.S. Capitol to build momentum for comprehensive immigration reform in the Republican-led House of Representatives. Rep. Lofgren took on the fast from her colleague Judy Chu (D-CA-27), joining a growing group of Democratic lawmakers who fast for one day for immigration reform. "For more than a month reform advocates, faith leaders, and others have fasted because they refuse to let House Republicans ignore their promises to pass real immigration reform," said Rep. Lofgren. "I'm humbled to join in fasting with these courageous people to demonstrate my shared commitment for comprehensive reform. From left to right, a majority of Americans want to fix our broken immigration system because it does not reflect our values, it tears families apart and forces people to live in the shadows, and it holds our economy and country back. The American people are tired of excuses about why Congress cannot pass reform and I challenge my Republican friends in the House to set aside politics and join us in passing meaningful immigration reform." Rep. Lofgren is a nationally recognized advocate for immigration reform and serves as the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. For the past four years she was one of eight bipartisan lawmakers crafting an immigration reform bill in the House before Republicans in the group announced they were pulling out of talks on September 20, 2013, effectively ending the effort. # # #
12.11.2013	Today Congresswomen Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA-46), co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, released a bipartisan letter urging Secretary of State John Kerry to press the Vietnamese government to improve its abusive human rights record ahead of the Secretary's trip to the nation later this month. The letter, signed by 47 Members of Congress, was sent on International Human Rights Day, which commemorates the adoption of the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. In the letter, the Representatives express their concerns that trade relationships, including those being negotiated under the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), "needs to be conditioned upon improvements with regard to human rights." "We're asking Secretary Kerry to impress upon the Vietnamese government that improved trade agreements go hand in hand with improving their country's worsening human rights record," said Rep. Lofgren. "U.S. trade should be expanded for greater economic benefit, but not at the cost of the American ideals and values we hold dear. Since the U.S. expanded its trade relationships the Vietnamese government, their shameful human rights record has deteriorated and the Communist government continues widespread oppression of its own people, arresting and harassing peaceful advocates, and imprisoning prisoners of conscience." "Secretary Kerry must emphasize that Vietnam's egregious human rights abuses need to be stopped before the United States enters into any economic partnership," said Rep. Sanchez. "I have not, do not and will not support the Trans-Pacific Partnership until Vietnam makes significant and tangible steps to improve its human rights record." Despite consistent pressure from Congress and human rights organizations, the Vietnamese government continues to violate its international human rights obligations, even those rights granted under its very own constitution. Earlier this year Lofgren and Sanchez introduced the bipartisan Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement in Vietnam Act (H.R. 1682, the FREE Vietnam Act), legislation that would bar Vietnam from enjoying special U.S. trade preferences until the country's communist government takes serious measures to curb human rights abuses. The letter can be viewed by clicking here. In addition to Reps. Lofgren and Sanchez, the letter was signed by Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ-4), Frank Wolf (R-VA-10), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA-47), John Dingell (D-MI-12), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA-13), Brad Sherman (D-CA-30), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-3), Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1), Susan Davis (D-CA-53), William Enyart (D-IL-12), Gene Green (D-TX-29), Linda Sanchez (D-CA-38), Bobby Rush (D-IL-1), Betty McCollum (D-MN-4), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX-35), Alan Grayson (D-FL-9), Elijah Cummings (D-MD-7), Sam Farr (D-CA-20), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-9), Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), Frederica Wilson (D-FL-24), William Lacy Clay (D-MO-1), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY-25), Brian Higgins (D-NY-26), Tim Bishop (D-NY-1), Mike Michaud (D-ME-2), Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4), Bruce Braley (D-IA-1), Ami Bera (D-CA-7), Keith Ellison (D-MN-5), John Tierney (D-MA-6), Paul Tonko (D-NY-20), Barbara Lee (D-CA-13), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL-8), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Mike Honda (D-CA-17), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-2), Eliot Engel (D-NY-16), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18), Jim McGovern (D-MA-2), George Miller (D-CA-11), Rob Andrews (D-NY-1), John Garamendi (D-CA-3), Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Juan Vargas (D-CA-51) Full text of the letter to Secretary Kerry is available below: December 10, 2013 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, In advance of your anticipated travel to Vietnam this month, we are writing to strongly urge you to take advantage of this opportunity to encourage the Vietnamese government to improve its record on human rights. We believe that a closer relationship needs to be conditioned upon improvements with regard to human rights. The status quo in Vietnam is unacceptable, and we have serious concerns about strengthening ties with this government. We have particular concerns about our increasing trade partnership with Vietnam, including the ongoing Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Any further economic ties, specifically trade agreements, should be contingent on the condition of human rights in Vietnam. The government of Vietnam has perpetually ignored its promises to improve its human rights record and continues to blatantly act in disregard to international law. The Vietnamese government's track record on human rights has steadily deteriorated since 2007, when Vietnam joined the World Trade Organization. In its most recent report, issued in April 2013, the U.S. Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) found: Vietnam's overall human rights record remains very poor. In the wake of battles within the Communist Party's leadership during the past several years, the government has moved decisively to repress any perceived challenges to its authority, tightening controls on freedom of expression, association, and assembly. In the past year, new decrees were issued prohibiting peaceful protest, limiting speech on the Internet, and tightening controls on journalists and access to the internet at cafes. At least 34 dissidents and human rights defenders were imprisoned, some to long sentences. Similarly, Human Rights Watch, in its World Report 2013, concluded: The Vietnam government systematically suppresses freedom of expression, association, and peaceful assembly, and persecutes those who question government policies, expose official corruption, or call for democratic alternatives to one-party rule. Police harass and intimidate activists and their family members. Authorities arbitrarily arrest activists, hold them incommunicado for long periods without access to legal counsel or family visits, subject them to torture, and prosecute them in politically pliant courts that mete out long prison sentences for violating vaguely worded national security laws. The condition of human rights in Vietnam continues to worsen. The Wall Street Journal noted in June of this year that nearly as many bloggers and democracy activists had been arrested in Vietnam as in all of 2012. Moreover, though it already possesses extensive powers to restrict internet freedom, on September 1, the government put into effect yet another internet content law – Decree 72 – which, according to the Library of Congress's Global Legal Monitor, "prohibits use of Internet services and online information to oppose the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; threaten the national security, social order, and safety; sabotage the "national fraternity"; arouse animosity among races and religions; or contradict national traditions, among other acts." This vague and overbroad law also restricts the sharing of news through blogs and social media sites. We are deeply concerned by the government's desperate attempts to silence its own citizens and to establish control over the sharing of information. More broadly, the government continues to crack down on religious freedom, harassing and persecuting members of a broad range of faiths for religious activity and activism. In addition, human rights organizations, political parties, and labor organizations that are seen to threaten the government have been banned. These actions demonstrate a lack of respect for basic human rights as well as for international law. We strongly urge you to put human rights first during your visit to Vietnam. Despite the Vietnamese government's effort to portray itself as a model trading partner, this is an authoritarian regime that uses draconian laws and one-party rule to repress its citizens. Vietnam's record on human rights is counter to American values, and we hope that you will demand an end to these injustices during your discussions with the Vietnamese government. Sincerely, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA-46), Chris Smith (R-NJ-4), Frank Wolf (R-VA-10), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA-47), John Dingell (D-MI-12), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA-13), Brad Sherman (D-CA-30), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-3), Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1), Susan Davis (D-CA-53), William Enyart (D-IL-12), Gene Green (D-TX-29), Linda Sanchez (D-CA-38), Bobby Rush (D-IL-1), Betty McCollum (D-MN-4), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX-35), Alan Grayson (D-FL-9), Elijah Cummings (D-MD-7), Sam Farr (D-CA-20), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-9), Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), Frederica Wilson (D-FL-24), William Lacy Clay (D-MO-1), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY-25), Brian Higgins (D-NY-26), Tim Bishop (D-NY-1), Mike Michaud (D-ME-2), Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4), Bruce Braley (D-IA-1), Ami Bera (D-CA-7), Keith Ellison (D-MN-5), John Tierney (D-MA-6), Paul Tonko (D-NY-20), Barbara Lee (D-CA-13), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL-8), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Mike Honda (D-CA-17), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-2), Eliot Engel (D-NY-16), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18), Jim McGovern (D-MA-2), George Miller (D-CA-11), Rob Andrews (D-NY-1), John Garamendi (D-CA-3), Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Juan Vargas (D-CA-51) # # #
12.05.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) participated in a press conference today voicing concerns over the emerging Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade pact. During the press conference, held on the eve of this coming weekend's high-level ministerial meeting on TPP in Singapore in which a possible final deal may be announced, Rep. Lofgren focused her remarks on troubling provisions related to Internet Freedom, consumer rights, copyright, and fair use and the public domain in the digital age: "I just wanted to address the leaked IP chapter of the TPP because we've expressed concern in the past that these trade agreements really are at the expense of consumer rights, fair use, and the public domain. In fact I wrote to the USTR [U.S. Trade Representative] about these issues in September 2012 and it doesn't look like they've been resolved. "First, the leaked TPP text would apparently export new copyright terms to signatory countries, rather than allowing the copyright term to be determined by each country. We are trying to press a current copyright term of life plus seventy years – I mean we're talking about a couple of centuries in terms. Mexico is talking about a hundred years. I personally think that's too long, but the TPP would lock that in for all signatory countries. "Second, it looks like there would be new restrictions on limitations and exceptions to copyright such as what we in the U.S. enjoy as fair use. I believe that fair use in the digital age is absolutely crucial to creativity, education, social commentary, free speech and yet it appears that the signatories would confine copyright limitations to certain special cases. This could lead to an abuse by rights holders. It is not innocuous and would be at odds with the First Amendment of the United States. "Third, the leaked TPP provides extensive provisions on technical protection measures, such as DRM, to prevent copying or modifying copyrighted work. Now this is something that has come to the public's attention here in the United States when the Librarian [of Congress] said you couldn't unlock your cellphone. We're trying to change it. This provision looks like it would lock in really backwards provisions of law. "In closing, this is something that is backdooring, through a trade agreement, that which could not be obtained in Congress. I think we all remember SOPA, the Stop Online Piracy Act. Millions of Americans shut the phone system down in the United States Congress. It looks like there are some elements of SOPA that are being inserted into this trade agreement and I don't think the American people are going to put up with it." Click here for audio of Rep. Lofgren's remarks. # # #
12.05.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement today following the passage of H.R. 3309, the Innovation Act, a bipartisan bill she is an original co-sponsor of that would curb abusive patent litigation from patent assertion entities often referred to as ‘Patent Trolls.' The bill was passed by a strong bipartisan vote of 325 to 91 in the U.S. House of Representatives today: "We do have a problem among patent assertion entities, sometimes called patent trolls, and abusive lawsuits. It's a big issue for start-ups and entrepreneurs, and a study found more than half of these suits were against small businesses. When a meritless lawsuit is threatened, it's easy to extort a smaller payment to make it go away. That's what we're trying to deal with in this genuinely bipartisan bill, with White House support, in order to stop an unnecessary drain on innovation that could better benefit the American economy and job creation." Earlier today Rep. Lofgren delivered a statement on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate on H.R. 3309, video of which can be seen by clicking here. # # #
12.03.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released a letter today to Mr.Kim Beazley, the Australian Ambassador to the United States, outlining her continued concerns over the troubling conduct of Francis Gurry, director-general of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Late last month, Rep. Lofgren and a group of senior bipartisan Congressional leaders signaled their alarm to the Obama Administration over the widening reports of scandal and misconduct during Gurry's tenure as WIPO leader, including a secret technology transfer to North Korea and Iran. At that time the lawmakers warned "the interests of the United States and its large community of innovators cannot be served well with Mr. Gurry continuing as Director General of WIPO" and they urged the Obama administration "to identify and support an alternate candidate to lead WIPO." Rep. Lofgren's response comes after Ambassador Beazley penned a defense of the embattled Gurry, whom Australia has nominated again to head WIPO. The following is the text of Rep. Lofgren's letter to Ambassador Beazley: December 2, 2013 Ambassador Kim Beazley Embassy of Australia 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20036 Dear Ambassador Beazley, As I received your letter while the House of Representatives was in recess for the Thanksgiving holiday, I have not had the opportunity to consult the colleagues who joined me in expressing concern about the current leadership of WIPO, and I am taking the liberty of responding to you in my individual capacity. First, thank you for your letter of November 26, 2013. I hope that you are aware that my colleagues and I feel strongly that America has no better ally than Australia. I hope that it is clear that the concerns that we have expressed about WIPO relate only to the current Director General's job performance and are not a reflection of any ill will directed toward Australia. In fact, I am concerned that Mr. Gurry's conduct runs counter to the principles that Australia has continually upheld and does nothing to enhance the prestige of his home country. In your response, you challenge several of the statements from our letter of November 21, suggesting that they are false or "old" and that no "new evidence" supports the claims. I respectfully disagree that these issues are "old" and somehow irrelevant. Mr. Gurry's thwarting of the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) inquiry happened just last year. I have enclosed a copy of a letter sent last year signed by then-Chairperson Ileana Ros–Lehtinen and then-Ranking Member Howard Berman that outlines the manner in which Mr. Gurry handled HFAC's investigation into the transfer of technology to North Korea and Iran. I was surprised that you contested the claim that WIPO's shipment of high-end computers to North Korea and Iran was secret and that you described the goods as "standard office equipment" that were "designed to aid the implementation of WIPO programs." The documentary evidence is contrary. My understanding is that before the discovery of the North Korea shipment in March 2012 and resulting press coverage, there had not been disclosure to the Member States of that project. Moreover, rather than arrange the shipment openly and through the U.N. office that had been designated for such purposes (where it probably would have been stopped due to U.S. laws and manufacturers' prohibitions), WIPO apparently contracted with a Chinese middleman to send it in from that country. I have attached a document signed by Mr. Gurry and dated June 23, 2011, describing an extensive upgrade to North Korean facilities, including at least 90 PCs and a tenfold increase in local area network performance. The specific shipment from WIPO which was caught and halted in 2012 is reflected in the attached equipment list. The HFAC inquiry may have been able to determine if there was some benign rationale for this shipment, however because Mr. Gurry derailed that inquiry, it is impossible for the Congress to conclude that the technology sent - which can also be used for military applications – can accurately be characterized as "standard office equipment." Under U.S. law, which I understand is similar to Australian law in this respect, the shipment of such technical equipment to a rogue regime like North Korea is a serious criminal offense. Mr. Gurry's reaction to this, in a memorandum dated March 29, 2012 (see attachment), was to hold that WIPO "is not bound by the U.S. national law in this matter." However, his dismissive attitude about U.S. law was unjustified as underscored by an independent review commissioned by WIPO, which concluded that "we simply cannot fathom how WIPO could have convinced itself that most Member States would support the delivery of equipment to countries whose behavior was so egregious it forced the international community to impose embargoes, and where the deliveries, if initiated by the recipient countries, would violate a Member State's national laws." As to the controversy regarding Swiss law and the use of DNA, it appears that this matter is unresolved. I have attached a series of questions which, if answered, might resolve these questions. I hope that the Australian government, if it is defending Mr. Gurry's tenure at WIPO, will forward these questions to Mr. Gurry and provide me with his answers. Regarding the recent General Assemblies of WIPO that ended without agreement due to the external offices proposal, you mentioned that Mr. Gurry "foreshadowed" his proposal at a meeting of ambassadors on January 21. To my knowledge, Mr. Gurry did not actually tell the Member States that he had already entered into agreements with China and Russia and these agreements came to light only with media announcements by the two countries in early April. It seems to me that the Member States of WIPO are entitled to more than "foreshadowing" hints when it comes to such consequential transactions. I understand that when the matter first came before the Member States at the Program and Budget Committee meeting in early July, it became known that entering these agreements without prior approval did not conform to the requirements of the WIPO charter and apparently was also not in accordance with previous assurances by Mr. Gurry that external offices would not be decided without a proper business case analysis and consultation with Member States. My concern about the leadership of WIPO is based on conduct undertaken by the incumbent which has caused me to have doubts about his capacity to lead effectively and ethically. That the incumbent is a citizen of Australia is not the source of my concern, rather his behavior. Should Australia have a competent alternative candidate for this position, I would entertain this candidacy with great interest. Frankly, the current situation does nothing to enhance the reputation of the great nation of Australia. Thank you in advance for your continued attention to this matter, and I look forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Anna G. Eshoo The Honorable Ileana Ros-Lehtinen The Honorable Jim Sensenbrenner The Honorable Frank R. Wolf The Honorable John Conyers, Jr. The Honorable Ed Royce The Honorable Mike Thompson The Honorable Eliot Engel The Honorable Michael McCaul The Honorable Gene Green The Honorable Henry Cuellar # # #
11.22.2013	Following a GAO report released this week, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress today called on the Obama Administration to put strong regulations in place to prevent sexual abuse and assault against immigrants in federal custody. In a letter to President Barrack Obama, twelve bipartisan Members of Congress, including senior leaders on the House Judiciary Committee, called on the administration to issue the regulations "without further delay" in order to achieve the goals of the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) of 2003. The GAO's investigation, requested by 30 Members of Congress, including Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, identified problems at facilities around the country, questioned the adequacy of investigations into allegations of sexual assault and abuse, and supports the lawmakers' recommendation to the President that a single, uniform standard be adopted to protect all immigration detainees around the country from falling victim to sexual assault and abuse: The 10 facilities visited by the GAO revealed a troubling disconnect within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and its operations across the country as the agency's Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) headquarters was never informed by field offices of 40% of the sexual abuse allegations. The review details how the absence of a uniform federal standard to address sexual abuse and assault has led to a patchwork of practices in use across ICE's approximately 250 immigration detention facilities. The review noted that because of this patchwork of practices, ICE could not reliably identify which practice applied to which of its various facilities. The letter can be viewed by clicking here. In addition to Rep. Lofgren it was signed by Reps. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Chairman of the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee; Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), former Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Robert "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Howard Coble (R-NC), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Ted Poe (R-TX), Mike Quigley (D-IL). # # #
11.21.2013	Senior bipartisan Congressional leaders signaled their alarm today to the Obama Administration over the widening expose of reports of scandal and misconduct by Francis Gurry, director-general of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, the lawmakers warned "the interests of the United States and its large community of innovators cannot be served well with Mr. Gurry continuing as Director General of WIPO." The lawmakers urged the Obama administration "to identify and support an alternate candidate to lead WIPO." In the letter, the lawmakers noted that under Gurry's tenure "WIPO has substantially deteriorated." News reports and independent watchdog groups have detailed WIPO Director Gurry's abuse of office, including a secretive technology transfer program with North Korea and Iran, dubious deals with China and Russia, and now allege Gurry participated in a scheme to illegally acquire DNA samples of WIPO employees (click here for an article by the Tribune de Geneve. You can also click here for a translated version of the original article in English) The letter to Secretary Kerry can be viewed by clicking here. The following is the text of the letter to Secretary Kerry signed by Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), John Conyers (D-MI), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Mike McCaul (R-TX), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Gene Green (D-TX), Henry Cuellar (D-TX): November 21, 2013 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary, U.S. Department of State Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, We are writing to follow up regarding the concerns expressed to you in September about the upcoming election for Director General at the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the candidacy of incumbent Director General, Francis Gurry. As you may recall, concerns were expressed following reports that Mr. Gurry was running a secret program to ship high-end computers and other electronic gear to North Korea and Iran. When called to account, he claimed that U.S. law did not constrain him, and he refused to cooperate with an investigation by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Since the time of that letter, the situation at WIPO has substantially deteriorated. As you know, the recent annual meeting of Member States collapsed due to the revelation of secret agreements made by Gurry to open satellite WIPO offices in China and Russia – we understand that he even proposed opening an office in Tehran. But even more disturbing, we understand Gurry is involved in a scheme to illegally acquire DNA samples of WIPO employees in a failed effort to develop evidence to support a personal complaint that he had filed with the Swiss authorities. There is also concern that he has been working since to suppress this information and to prevent any independent investigation of it. We appreciate the State Department's early November response indicating that the Administration is closely monitoring the WIPO election process. However, we hope you will agree that this evidence of criminal wrongdoing puts the question of his leadership in a new context. Clearly, the interests of the United States and its large community of innovators cannot be served well with Mr. Gurry continuing as Director General of WIPO. We again urge the Administration to work diligently to identify and support an alternate candidate to lead WIPO. Sincerely, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX) Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) # # #
11.20.2013	The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Innovation Act (H.R. 3309) by an overwhelming vote of 33-5. This bipartisan bill takes steps to combat the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. The legislation addresses abusive practices taking place in our courts. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) joined House Judiciary Committee Chairman and chief sponsor of the Innovation Act Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.), and senior member of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet in praising today's Committee vote. Representative Lofgren: "The bipartisan, wide margin of support in the Judiciary Committee shows the depth of concern about abusive patent litigation. Amendments during the markup improved the bill and further efforts to resolve additional issues will receive attention between today and House floor action. Today was an important step forward for startups, inventors and U.S. innovation. The American economy – and job creation – will benefit from these efforts."Chairman Goodlatte: "Abusive patent litigation is having a significant impact on American innovation, needlessly costing small and large businesses alike tens of billions of dollars every year – resources that could have been used to create innovative new products and services. "Today's Judiciary Committee passage of the Innovation Act takes a pivotal step toward eliminating the abuses of our patent system by discouraging these frivolous patent lawsuits. The Innovation Act contains needed reforms to address the issues that businesses of all sizes and industries face from patent troll-type behavior, while keeping in mind several key principles, including targeting abusive behavior rather than specific entities, preserving valid patent enforcement tools, preserving patent property rights, promoting invention by independents and small businesses, and strengthening the overall patent system. "This legislation will help fuel the engine of American innovation and creativity, help create new jobs and grow our economy."Representative DeFazio: "Patent trolls drain tens of billions of dollars a year from the productive economy simply by threatening American innovators. In 2011 alone they extracted an estimated $29 billion. Small companies cannot afford drawn out legal proceedings so they are forced to expend precious capital on settling with trolls even if they do not infringe on their patent. Passing the bipartisan Innovation Act out of Committee today is a significant step toward ensuring patent trolls take responsibility for their abusive lawsuits."Subcommittee Chairman Coble: "H.R. 3309 goes a long way in preventing frivolous patent lawsuits, which stifle innovation and affect virtually every business sector in America. These lawsuits are targeted at any viable defendant, large or small, and are rarely litigated because the cost to win is greater than the cost to settle. If enacted, the new rules for litigating or threatening litigation will deter bogus suits because H.R. 3309 balances the costs of litigation. Furthermore, it does so without undermining the ability of rightful patent owners to assert their rights, if their patent is being infringed." The Innovation Act is supported by a wide range of groups that include stakeholders from all areas of our economy representing businesses of all kinds from every corner of our country including independent inventors and innovators. Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions. Requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit is just plain common sense. It not only reduces litigation expenses, but saves the court's time and resources. Greater transparency and information is a good thing and it makes our patent system stronger. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation includes a modernized version of Section 285 fee shifting that is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. ###
11.19.2013	In the aftermath of typhoon Haiyan's devastating impact on the Philippines, twenty-nine bipartisan Members of Congress are calling on the Obama Administration to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Filipinos currently in the U.S. from being sent home when their visas expire. In a letter released today by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), the senior Democrat on the House Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, to Rand Beers, Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the lawmakers urged the administration to exercise its authority to declare temporary protected status given the "extraordinary" conditions in the Philippines that prevent Filipino nationals currently in the U.S. from returning safely to their country. The United States has granted TPS status during major humanitarian disasters, including most recently for Syria, Haiti and Sudan. The following is the full text of the letter which can also be viewed by clicking here: November 19, 2013 The Honorable Rand Beers Acting Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20528 Acting Secretary Beers: We write to express our deep concern over the devastation suffered by the Philippines as a result of Typhoon Haiyan last week. Possibly the largest typhoon ever to make landfall, Haiyan brought sustained devastating winds and waves destroying a wide swath of the Philippine island chain. The Philippine government and relief agencies are still assessing the full extent of the damage, but early reports indicate that 2 million Filipinos are without adequate food and hundreds of thousands have no shelter or clean water. The Philippine Red Cross described the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan as "absolute bedlam," with thousands of fatalities and hundreds of thousands of people displaced. We appreciate that the Administration and the military are directing much-needed food and relief aid to ameliorate the impact of the typhoon. In addition to these initial emergency response efforts, we believe it is imperative that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) exercise its authority to designate the Philippines for Temporary Protected Status ("TPS") pursuant to section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. That section allows you, as Acting Secretary of DHS, to designate a foreign state for special protection if a natural disaster prevents the state from being able to adequately handle the return of its nationals. Section 244 alternatively allows you to grant TPS if you find "extraordinary and temporary conditions in the foreign state that prevent . . . nationals of the state from returning to the state in safety." Based on the level of destruction in the Philippines known to us already, it is clear the country meets either of the necessary requirements for TPS mentioned above. Due to natural disaster, the Philippine government is currently struggling to address significant loss of life, repair extensive damage to infrastructure, and provide sufficient and timely aid to millions of survivors. Considering the daunting rescue and restoration efforts before it, the country is not in a position to adequately handle returning nationals, many of whom will be unable to return to their homes. Additionally, given the extraordinary and life-threatening conditions currently present in the Philippines, it cannot be said that Filipinos are able to return to the state in anything approaching safe conditions. We ask, therefore, that TPS status be afforded to nationals of the Philippines. We hope that you carefully consider this request and would appreciate your prompt attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-California) Rep. Trent Franks (R-Arizona) Rep. Edward R. Royce (R-California) Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Virginia) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida) Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-California) Rep. Peter T. King (R-New York) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-California) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Florida) Rep. Janice Hahn (D-California) Rep. Chistopher H. Smith (R-New Jersey) Rep. Judy Chu (D-California) Rep. Ted S. Yoho (R-Florida) Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-New York) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-California) Rep. Joe Garcia (D-Florida) Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-California) Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Arizona) Rep. Colleen W. Hanabusa (D-Hawaii) Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-California) Rep. Mark Takano (D-California) Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-California) Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-Illinois) Rep. Michael M. Honda (D-California) Rep. Alan S. Lowenthal (D-California) Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) Rep. Eni F.H. Faleomavaega (D-American Samoa) Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-Guam) Rep. Grace Meng (D-New York) # # #
11.19.2013	In the aftermath of typhoon Haiyan's devastating impact on the Philippines, twenty-nine bipartisan Members of Congress are calling on the Obama Administration to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Filipinos currently in the U.S. from being sent home when their visas expire. In a letter released today by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), the senior Democrat on the House Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, to Rand Beers, Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the lawmakers urged the administration to exercise its authority to declare temporary protected status given the "extraordinary" conditions in the Philippines that prevent Filipino nationals currently in the U.S. from returning safely to their country. The United States has granted TPS status during major humanitarian disasters, including most recently for Syria, Haiti and Sudan. The following is the full text of the letter which can also be viewed by clicking here [hyperlink to pdf of letter]: November 19, 2013 The Honorable Rand Beers Acting Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20528 Acting Secretary Beers: We write to express our deep concern over the devastation suffered by the Philippines as a result of Typhoon Haiyan last week. Possibly the largest typhoon ever to make landfall, Haiyan brought sustained devastating winds and waves destroying a wide swath of the Philippine island chain. The Philippine government and relief agencies are still assessing the full extent of the damage, but early reports indicate that 2 million Filipinos are without adequate food and hundreds of thousands have no shelter or clean water. The Philippine Red Cross described the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan as "absolute bedlam," with thousands of fatalities and hundreds of thousands of people displaced. We appreciate that the Administration and the military are directing much-needed food and relief aid to ameliorate the impact of the typhoon. In addition to these initial emergency response efforts, we believe it is imperative that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) exercise its authority to designate the Philippines for Temporary Protected Status ("TPS") pursuant to section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. That section allows you, as Acting Secretary of DHS, to designate a foreign state for special protection if a natural disaster prevents the state from being able to adequately handle the return of its nationals. Section 244 alternatively allows you to grant TPS if you find "extraordinary and temporary conditions in the foreign state that prevent . . . nationals of the state from returning to the state in safety." Based on the level of destruction in the Philippines known to us already, it is clear the country meets either of the necessary requirements for TPS mentioned above. Due to natural disaster, the Philippine government is currently struggling to address significant loss of life, repair extensive damage to infrastructure, and provide sufficient and timely aid to millions of survivors. Considering the daunting rescue and restoration efforts before it, the country is not in a position to adequately handle returning nationals, many of whom will be unable to return to their homes. Additionally, given the extraordinary and life-threatening conditions currently present in the Philippines, it cannot be said that Filipinos are able to return to the state in anything approaching safe conditions. We ask, therefore, that TPS status be afforded to nationals of the Philippines. We hope that you carefully consider this request and would appreciate your prompt attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-California) Rep. Trent Franks (R-Arizona) Rep. Edward R. Royce (R-California) Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Virginia) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida) Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-California) Rep. Peter T. King (R-New York) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-California) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Florida) Rep. Janice Hahn (D-California) Rep. Chistopher H. Smith (R-New Jersey) Rep. Judy Chu (D-California) Rep. Ted S. Yoho (R-Florida) Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-New York) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-California) Rep. Joe Garcia (D-Florida) Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-California) Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Arizona) Rep. Colleen W. Hanabusa (D-Hawaii) Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-California) Rep. Mark Takano (D-California) Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-California) Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-Illinois) Rep. Michael M. Honda (D-California) Rep. Alan S. Lowenthal (D-California) Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) Rep. Eni F.H. Faleomavaega (D-American Samoa) Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-Guam) Rep. Grace Meng (D-New York) # # #
11.19.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren joined together today with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) to celebrate the selection of San Jose's City Hall building as the permanent location for the Silicon Valley satellite patent office. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's (USPTO) announcement comes after a search for a permanent office space was put on hold in July due to federal budget sequestration. Senator Feinstein, a longtime advocate for a Silicon Valley satellite office, inserted language in a Senate appropriations bill this summer to jumpstart the process of opening the California location. Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Honda have been working diligently to find a solution as well, including introducing H.R. 2852, the Patents and Trademarks Encourage New Technology (PATENT) Jobs Act, to exempt USPTO from budget sequestration because the agency is funded through user fees, not taxpayer dollars. "My thanks to Mayor Chuck Reed and the City of San Jose for agreeing to house a satellite patent office in their lovely City Hall rent-free for two years," said Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA). "Opening this office in the middle of Silicon Valley, the highest patent-producing area in the country, was the logical choice. The next step is for Congress to free up funds to continue operating this office. These funds—which are actually fees from patent filings—should not be held hostage by the sequester. I will continue my work on the Appropriations Committee to ensure these satellite patent offices receive funds necessary to remain open." "I welcome the announcement of a permanent home for the Silicon Valley satellite patent office. The importance of this office to our region cannot be understated," said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18). "Silicon Valley is the innovation capital of our country, with Stanford and other top research institutions in our back yard, a highly skilled workforce developing the innovations of tomorrow, and the largest share of our nation's patents. This permanent office will help thousands of innovators and entrepreneurs in our region take full advantage of our nation's intellectual property system, and it's why I'm exceedingly proud to have been part of the effort to make this a reality." "This patent office is about tapping and unleashing the kind of economic growth, job creation, and prosperity an innovation economy offers our entire country," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). "That's because California, and the Valley in particular, are innovation powerhouses that will soon benefit from the extraordinary effort that went into landing this new patent office. The Silicon Valley patent office will help our most promising start-ups with the services and resources they need to go from the drawing board to the marketplace faster, and in the process, grow their ventures and create good paying jobs." "It is great news that the U.S. Patent Office will be opening its long-planned Silicon Valley satellite branch in San Jose," said Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17). "As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the Commerce Department, I have worked for months with the committee chairman, Patent Office officials, and the South Bay delegation on a solution that will allow the innovation of our region to continue to thrive. Going forward, we will be redoubling our efforts to end the budget sequestration that threatens the USPTO and all fee-based agencies once and for all. My priorities in representing Silicon Valley will always remain in job growth and cultivating innovation." The announcement comes after a concerted, multi-year effort to locate one of four satellite offices in California. Through a collaborative effort announced today, the City of San Jose will provide approximately 40,000 square feet of permanent office space in City Hall without charge for two years and then at a reduced amount for the following three years. Additionally, California State Assembly Speaker John Perez will offer the USPTO $500,000 for the agency to provide education and outreach efforts to accelerate momentum towards opening the permanent Silicon Valley office. # # #
11.15.2013	Twenty-four Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), Chaired by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), the Chair of the delegation, released the following letter today to California Health and Human Services Secretary Diana Dooley and Covered California Executive Director Peter Lee urging them to implement President Obama's administrative fix that gives consumers the option to renew their 2013 health plans in 2014, without change. The following is the full text of the letter which can also be viewed by clicking here: November 14, 2013 Diana Dooley Secretary, California Health and Human Services 1600 9th Street, Room 450 Sacramento, CA 95814 Mr. Peter V. Lee Executive Director, California Health Benefit Exchange 560 J Street, Suite 270 Sacramento, CA 95814 Secretary Dooley and Mr. Lee, First, we want to congratulate the team at Covered California for a web site that works and for efforts that will allow many Californians who could not previously obtain health care insurance to finally get access to health care. However, more than 1 million Californians across the state have received health insurance plan cancellation notices this year. Cancellation of these plans has caused real pain and confusion for our constituents faced with Covered California marketplace options that have different provider networks or premium costs. These families were told that if they liked their plan they can keep it, and that is a promise we must keep to them. On November 14, 2013, the President proposed to extend grandfathering provisions to all individual health plans our constituents currently enjoy. This is a critical fix to ensure stability in California families' coverage and a smooth transition to full implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Implementation of a grandfathering provision relies on the state certifying these plans. Therefore, we encourage you in the strongest terms possible to implement this policy swiftly to ensure that California families can have the option of keeping their current health insurance plans. Similarly, our delegation has heard from constituents who, after cancellation, face premium increases of more than 300%, which may require them to drop their coverage and pay a penalty instead. This stands in direct contrast to the original goals of the ACA. While the number of individuals may be small relative to all those in the exchange pool we strongly believe that no Californian should lose their coverage due to excessive premium increases. We thank you for your immediate attention to this issue. Sincerely, Lois Capps Zoe Lofgren Jared Huffman Ami Bera Jerry McNerney Jackie Speier Eric Swalwell Jim Costa Sam Farr Julia Brownley Adam Schiff Raul Ruiz Alan Lowenthal Scott Peters Mike Honda Grace Napolitano Lucille Roybal-Allard Mark Takano Mike Thompson Doris Matsui Juan Vargas Gloria Negrete McLeod Loretta Sanchez John Garamendi # # #
11.01.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.) was awarded with a lifetime achievement award from the Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG). The SVLG honored Rep. Lofgren and her colleague Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) with the lifetime achievement award during the organization's largest public policy gathering in Silicon Valley. Dr. Ed Moses, who served for over fifteen years as the director of the National Ignition Facility at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, introduced Rep. Lofgren who delivered the following remarks in accepting the award.Remarks As Prepared for Delivery: "Ed, thank you for your kind words, and thank you to the Silicon Valley Leadership Group for this honor. I also want to congratulate my friend and colleague, (Rep.) Anna Eshoo. We have worked together on so many causes, and I can testify that she is truly deserving of praise. "I grew up just a few miles from here when Santa Clara County wasn't called Silicon Valley. I've seen my home become the center of the tech universe. "Now we know that government can't create technology, but the laws we make can either foster, or hinder, innovation. Policies can empower and spur entrepreneurs to create new industries, or they can hinder them. Laws can determine how technology is permitted to develop—or not. Finally, government investments in science can make the difference in getting an idea from the drawing board into the real world. "We set rules and make frameworks that foster an environment where Silicon Valley can exist. "In 1997 I realized that the governing body for the Internet couldn't continue as a division of the Department of Commerce, and the international nature of the Internet was fostered when we created ICANN. When we promoted net neutrality – and that fight isn't over! – we were setting an innovation framework. When my insistence on notice and take down and safe harbor in the DMCA succeeded, we helped create a framework for innovation. "These are just a few examples where government set rules, or made a framework, that made it more possible for Silicon Valley to prosper. "We also foster innovation by fending off threats – that's what we did when we stopped SOPA. Working together to get a world wide web black out and crafting strategy to defeat SOPA were some of my most enjoyable moments in Congress. We're working together again now, in this protect innovation mode, to make it harder for patent trolls while also making sure that we nurture start ups while we do so. "We can also foster innovation by promoting education, science and research. Innovation depends on smart people and Silicon Valley would not exist without them. We do this by supporting education from pre-k to post-doc. And by working to reform immigration. "And we do this by spending the taxpayer's money where we can get the best 'return on investment' by making smart federal investments in science. The money the Federal Government invests in science and research is very important. And yet, because of budget cuts, that essential engine for our technology future is being eroded. "That was true for a scientist at Yale who just lost funding for the research that actually got him the Nobel Prize this year. It's also true for the monumental science effort underway at the National Ignition Facility. "Dr. Ed Moses made note of my advocacy for fusion research. When I meet with new interns in my office, they often ask me what I'm working on and I'll tell them the three I's: Immigration, Intellectual Property and Inertial Confinement Fusion. "Today, probably the most important fusion research in the world is being conducted at the National Ignition Facility up the road at the Lawrence Livermore National Lab. Let's be clear: this is still a science experiment, not a commercial venture into a new energy source. But it is essential science with tremendous promise. Let's remember that the Internet was at one time just a federally funded experiment for battlefield communication. "For the last century we have been engaged in intense geo-engineering of the planet. When we thought we were just driving to work or getting power to homes and businesses, we were engaged in unprecedented geo-engineering of our planet through fossil fuel emissions. Now the seas are rising and the polar ice is melting. "Fusion, nuclear fission and solar energy – including biofuels – are the only energy sources capable of satisfying the Earth's need for power for the next century without the negative environmental impacts of fossil fuels. Of these sources, fusion would promise the most punch with the least down side. "The simplest fusion fuels, the heavy isotopes of hydrogen (deuterium and tritium), are virtually inexhaustible and available worldwide. "One gallon of seawater would provide the equivalent energy of 300 gallons of gasoline; fuel from 50 cups of water contains the energy equivalent of two tons of coal. A fusion power plant would produce no climate-changing gases, and there would be no danger of a runaway reaction or a disastrous core meltdown in a fusion power plant. "But we can't get there if we don't pioneer the science and we need your support for continued funding for the science at NIF. "Nowhere is the future more present than here in the Valley. I'm glad that Ed Moses was here to tell you something about the future you might not have known about. We will need the ingenuity of Silicon Valley to bring fusion science into commercially available power. After all, Silicon Valley specializes in using basic science to derive disruptive technology that changes the world. "I accept this award with gratitude for my past work and an understanding that Silicon Valley is always about the future. And I renew a pledge: You can continue to count on me in Congress to stand up for innovation and the future." # # #
10.23.2013	Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today joined House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Chairman Howard Coble (R-NC) and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) in introducing a bill to address the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. The bipartisan Innovation Act (H.R. 3309) builds on the reforms that were made last Congress in the America Invents Act and addresses certain abusive practices taking place in our Courts. Rep. Lofgren, Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Coble, and Rep. DeFazio released the statements below on the bill's introduction. Representative Lofgren: "Introducing this legislation provides an opportunity to curb patent trolls for their drain on U.S. innovation and our economic growth. America's innovation economy is dependent on a functional patent system that promotes invention and competition. This bill is a starting point with additional refinement necessary. I look forward to working with Chairman Goodlatte and my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee in an open and constructive process to move forward the best bill possible to halt abusive practices and protect independent inventors with legitimate patent claims." Chairman Goodlatte: "Abusive patent litigation is a drag on our economy. Everyone from independent inventors, to start-ups, to mid and large sized businesses face this constant threat. The tens of billions of dollars spent on settlements and litigation expenses associated with abusive patent suits represent truly wasted capital – wasted capital that could have been used to create new jobs, fund R&D, and create new innovations and technologies. "The bipartisan Innovation Act is designed to eliminate the abuses of our patent system, discourage frivolous patent litigation and keep U.S. patent laws up to date. These important actions will help fuel the engine of American innovation and creativity, creating new jobs and growing our economy." Subcommittee Chairman Coble: "This system is not working. Patent owners, even if they successfully win bogus lawsuits, spend millions in resources to litigate. The result has been an enormous drain on American innovation and must be addressed if we intend to remain the world's leader when it comes to new ideas and inventions. Chairman Goodlatte has made patent litigation reform a top priority for the 113th Congress, and while patent litigation is extremely complex, this legislation addresses many of the concerns that have been raised by patent owners." Representative DeFazio: "Patent trolls drain tens of billions of dollars a year from the productive economy simply by threatening American innovators. In 2011 alone they extracted an estimated $29 billion. Small companies cannot afford drawn out legal proceedings so they are forced to expend precious capital on settling with trolls even if they do not infringe on their patent. "Patent trolls pad their pockets by buying patents on products they didn't create and then suing companies from every industry for infringement. The bipartisan Innovation Act is a targeted reform that will force patent trolls to take responsibility for their abusive lawsuits without getting in the way of inventors and others that need to go to court to defend themselves." Additional original cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Anna Eshoo (D- Calif.), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), and George Holding (R-N.C.). Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions. Requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit is just plain common sense. It not only reduces litigation expenses, but saves the court's time and resources. Greater transparency and information is a good thing and it makes our patent system stronger. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation includes a modernized version of Section 285 fee shifting that is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A copy of the legislation can be found here and a section-by-section can be found here.
10.23.2013	Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today joined House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Chairman Howard Coble (R-NC) and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) in introducing a bill to address the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. The bipartisan Innovation Act (H.R. 3309) builds on the reforms that were made last Congress in the America Invents Act and addresses certain abusive practices taking place in our Courts. Rep. Lofgren, Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Coble, and Rep. DeFazio released the statements below on the bill's introduction. Representative Lofgren: "Introducing this legislation provides an opportunity to curb patent trolls for their drain on U.S. innovation and our economic growth. America's innovation economy is dependent on a functional patent system that promotes invention and competition. This bill is a starting point with additional refinement necessary. I look forward to working with Chairman Goodlatte and my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee in an open and constructive process to move forward the best bill possible to halt abusive practices and protect independent inventors with legitimate patent claims." Chairman Goodlatte: "Abusive patent litigation is a drag on our economy. Everyone from independent inventors, to start-ups, to mid and large sized businesses face this constant threat. The tens of billions of dollars spent on settlements and litigation expenses associated with abusive patent suits represent truly wasted capital – wasted capital that could have been used to create new jobs, fund R&D, and create new innovations and technologies. "The bipartisan Innovation Act is designed to eliminate the abuses of our patent system, discourage frivolous patent litigation and keep U.S. patent laws up to date. These important actions will help fuel the engine of American innovation and creativity, creating new jobs and growing our economy." Subcommittee Chairman Coble: "This system is not working. Patent owners, even if they successfully win bogus lawsuits, spend millions in resources to litigate. The result has been an enormous drain on American innovation and must be addressed if we intend to remain the world's leader when it comes to new ideas and inventions. Chairman Goodlatte has made patent litigation reform a top priority for the 113th Congress, and while patent litigation is extremely complex, this legislation addresses many of the concerns that have been raised by patent owners." Representative DeFazio: "Patent trolls drain tens of billions of dollars a year from the productive economy simply by threatening American innovators. In 2011 alone they extracted an estimated $29 billion. Small companies cannot afford drawn out legal proceedings so they are forced to expend precious capital on settling with trolls even if they do not infringe on their patent. "Patent trolls pad their pockets by buying patents on products they didn't create and then suing companies from every industry for infringement. The bipartisan Innovation Act is a targeted reform that will force patent trolls to take responsibility for their abusive lawsuits without getting in the way of inventors and others that need to go to court to defend themselves." Additional original cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Anna Eshoo (D- Calif.), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), and George Holding (R-N.C.). Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions. Requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit is just plain common sense. It not only reduces litigation expenses, but saves the court's time and resources. Greater transparency and information is a good thing and it makes our patent system stronger. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation includes a modernized version of Section 285 fee shifting that is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A copy of the legislation can be found here and a section-by-section can be found here.
10.16.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.) released the following statement following a vote by the House of Representatives on a bipartisan bill to reopen the federal government and raise the nation's debt ceiling: "It's been a long 16 days, especially for those Americans directly impacted by the shutdown. From day one the solution was simple: allow Democrats and Republicans to work together to achieve consensus and pass a bipartisan bill to reopen the government and to prevent default on the nation's debts. Instead, Republicans insisted on forcing the first government shutdown in fifteen years over the healthcare reform law. Their strategy was reckless, irresponsible and damaging. Now at the eleventh hour the House voted to pass the responsible bipartisan approach we need to open the government again and not default on the full faith and credit of the United States. I hope a key lesson for Congress is that it's good to allow Democrats and Republicans to work together for the good of our country. This is how Americans want to see Congress work. I hope House leaders will use this newfound bipartisan approach to tackle the challenges we still face such as fixing our broken immigration system and growing our economy." # # #
10.01.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.) released the following statement today on the shutdown of the U.S. Federal government resulting from the inability of the Republican-controlled House of Representatives to pass a funding bill to keep the government operating in the new the fiscal year beginning on October 1, 2013: "Late last night Republicans in control of the House of Representatives made a politically-driven decision to close the Federal government. They insist funding the people's government should be tied to overturning the healthcare reform law that was duly passed by Congress, upheld by the Supreme Court, and reaffirmed by voters in the 2012 elections. "Instead of working to grow our economy, put Americans back to work, or fix our broken immigration system, the Republican House has instead been fixated on "Obamacare" and have voted over 40 times to repeal the law. Now they have shut down the government. It's no wonder a recent poll conducted by CNN poll found 69% of Americans think the House Republicans are acting like 'spoiled children' and six out of ten respondents reject the GOP's approach. "As of October 1st hundreds of thousands of Federal employees and businesses that contract with the government are indefinitely furloughed, and many Federal employees and contractors that continue to work may not be paid during the shutdown. I want residents in California's 19th Congressional District to know that my offices in San Jose, CA, and Washington, D.C., will remain open and my staff and I will do everything in our power to help folks navigate federal agencies that are being impacted by the government shutdown, and to help them get the services they need. But, this will be a frustrating time. "What Republicans are doing now is not legitimate governing, nor is it responsible. This brinksmanship is reckless and will hurt working families, seniors, small businesses, veterans and our economy. Republicans who brought us to a shutdown should be reminded that they ran for office, sought control over Congress, swore an oath to uphold our Constitution and government, but now refuse to actually govern and address the nation's problems. This is an unacceptable dereliction of duty. House Republicans have failed to even keep the government open and functioning. They should pause and return to sanity, common sense, and responsibility to give us a functioning government." # # #
09.24.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.) announced today that two San Jose based community development organizations will receive federal grant funding totaling nearly $2.7 million for small business development and affordable housing. The two grants, each valued at $1.347 million, are being awarded by the U.S. Treasury Department's Community Development Financial Institution's (CDFI) fund to the Opportunity Fund and the Housing Trust of Santa Clara County. "This is more than just funding, it's federal investment in our community that helps new businesses open their doors or young families purchase their piece of the American Dream with a home to call their own," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "By serving communities and markets that traditional lenders cannot, the CDFI-backed programs help entrepreneurs and potential homebuyers get their start. This benefits our entire community as those businesses grow to hire more people and families are able to invest for their future through responsible home ownership." The $1.347 million CDFI grant awarded to the Opportunity Fund will support the growth of the organization's small business lending program. The funding will help the Opportunity Fund nearly triple their business lending, from $7.6 million in Fiscal Year 2012 to a projected $23.5 million by Fiscal Year 2018. The Opportunity Fund is a not-for-profit that provides small business loans, microloans, Individual Development Accounts, and development services to small business owners, students and families in the four-county San Francisco Bay area. The $1.347 million CDFI grant awarded to the Housing Trust will be leveraged for its lending capital programs to increase the supply of affordable housing by assisting first-time homebuyers, neighborhood stabilization and homelessness prevention. Since 2001, the Housing Trust has leveraged similar funds invested in its capital programs into over $1.88 billion dollars to create more than nine-thousand housing opportunities in Silicon Valley. The Trust's programs have helped more than 2,000 families purchase their first home, assisted more than 3,000 people from seniors to those with special needs with affordable rental housing, and moved more than 3,500 homeless people off of the streets and into housing. Rep. Lofgren has been a supporter of the CDFI's targeted investment initiatives that benefit small businesses and consumers alike. Earlier this year she wrote a letter of support to Congressional appropriations leaders who oversee the CDFI program urging them to fully support the initiative. Rep. Lofgren also previously volunteered as the co-Chair of the Housing Trust. # # #
09.20.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement today on the decision by her House Republican colleagues to depart from the bipartisan House immigration working group commonly referred to as the Group of Seven: "The dance of legislation is intricate and unpredictable. For the last four-and-a-half years a bipartisan group of representatives met, at first in anonymity, and later openly, to attempt to craft a bipartisan immigration reform bill. "We did succeed in crafting a bill, but at this point my Republican colleagues, Congressmen Sam Johnson and John Carter, have decided to withdraw from this process. While these two very conservative Congressmen do not agree with me on many issues, I am sure that they would agree that our efforts during these last several years were characterized by mutual respect and serious legislative work. Solid work was put into crafting immigration measures and these efforts, or portions of them, may yet help the process as efforts continue to achieve top to bottom reform of our country's broken immigration system. "The question isn't whether we can pass immigration reform. The economic, security and moral arguments have been made for reform. In poll after poll a growing majority of Americans want to see immigration reform, and the votes exist in the House for reform. "In the end, it's the Republican leadership that must make a decision on whether they intend to allow the current broken immigration system to continue as it is, or whether they will allow the House to vote on reform. I continue to be hopeful that Republican leaders will schedule votes on serious reform measures that aren't host to known poison pills. It can be done. Let's hope Congress can perform this basic task." # # #
09.19.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following bipartisan letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry regarding the upcoming election for Director General at the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Click here for a PDF copy of the letter, the text of which is also pasted below: September 19, 2013 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary, U.S. Department of State Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, We write to express our deep concern regarding the upcoming election for Director General at the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). As you know, patents are the cornerstone of the modern American economy. The Administration concluded last year that nearly 30 percent of U.S. jobs are directly or indirectly attributable to IP-intensive industries. And because U.S. industry operates in global markets, the proper functioning of international IP systems is imperative. Those international IP systems are the responsibility of WIPO, the only user fee-supported agency of the United Nations. More of those fees come from U.S. innovators than from anyplace else in the world. We therefore have a critical national interest in WIPO's governance. We understand that the process for election of the WIPO Director General has just begun, and that the incumbent, Francis Gurry, has signaled his interest in being re-elected for another six year term. We urge the Administration not to support Mr. Gurry's bid for re-election. Early last year it was discovered that he had been using WIPO funds to send secret shipments of expensive American-made computer equipment to North Korea and Iran. This is activity that would have put any U.S. citizen behind bars, but when caught in the act, Gurry did not stop or even apologize. Instead he claimed that U.S. law was of no concern to him or WIPO. Then he refused to allow WIPO witnesses to testify in a bipartisan investigation being conducted by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Gurry's erratic and secretive behavior and colossal lack of judgment must disqualify him from receiving support from the U.S. government. We call on the Administration to work diligently to identify and support an alternate candidate for leadership of this most important agency. Sincerely, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Howard Coble (R-NC) and Mel Watt (D-NC) # # #
09.02.2013	Following a conference call held earlier today with Members of the U.S. House Democratic Caucus, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following letter to Ambassador Susan Rice, the President's National Security Advisor, regarding the potential authorization of U.S. military action in Syria. Click here for a PDF copy of the joint Eshoo-Lofgren letter, the text of which is also pasted below. The two lawmakers previously asked the White House to provide more information to Congress following the President's statement on August 31, 2013. CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES Washington, DC 20515 September 2, 2013 The Honorable Susan E. Rice National Security Advisor The White House Washington, D.C. Dear Ambassador Rice: We participated in this morning's conference call with yourself, Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, DNI James Clapper and General Martin Dempsey, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. We appreciate the unclassified information shared with us and the serious nature of the questions that face the Congress and our country. Because of the short time frame, the call ended before we were able to pose our questions. We plan to attend the classified briefings offered on the issue of whether chemical weapons were used and by whom when Congress reconvenes. However, based on all we have heard so far, we are inclined to conclude they have been used and want to focus on the real questions that face the United States. What should we do, why, and what are the implications? We had previously issued a statement containing a series of questions on August 31st. We believe it is important for the administration to answer each of these questions. A copy of our statement is enclosed, and we look forward to your answers. This morning's discussion stimulated several other questions that we feel must be answered. First, if our efforts are to "degrade" the Assad regime's chemical weapons capacity, what exactly does that mean? If the Assad regime is able to continue to deploy chemical weapons, then to what extent will the regime have capacity to use them again? We understand, and concur with the assertion, that specific targets of a military assault should not be shared. Our question has to do with what Syria and the Assad regime's capacity would be expected to look like after your proposed military attack. Second, what would the United States do if, after a military attack, chemical weapons are used again in Syria? What would the United States do if retaliation against Israel, Turkey, or Lebanon follows the proposed attack? Third, we understand from Secretary Kerry that Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the Arab League support taking military action. What nations, other than France, are willing to contribute concrete effort (men, material, and arms) to this proposed military attack as opposed to mere verbal support? Will Turkey and Saudi Arabia be actual participants in a military attack? If not, why not? Assuming we attack alone or with France, where does this leave the United States if Syrian civilians die and world public opinion, especially in the Arab world, turns against the attack? If, as Secretary Kerry notes, the world is outraged at Assad's conduct, why does it fall only to the United States to take actual military action? Fourth, it was noted that Russia also opposes the use of chemical weapons. What has not been adequately addressed is what response we expect from Russia if a military attack is undertaken. What are the immediate, short term and long term implications for US-Russian relations? Finally, as DNI Clapper pointed out, while we have scenarios, this would be war and events are not entirely controllable. We understand that it might be unwise to publicly report the various scenarios that detail potential adverse consequences from a military attack although we assume that this analysis has taken place. However, we feel we must learn of the potential adverse impacts of a military attack before a vote on authorization. We will be available for classified briefings on this issue when Congress reconvenes in just a few days to receive these analyses. Sincerely, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) August 31, 2013 Joint Statement from Congresswomen Anna Eshoo and Zoe Lofgren Regarding Congressional Debate and Potential Authorization of U.S. Military Action in Syria We are pleased that President Obama will seek Congressional authorization before engaging in any military hostilities against Syria. That authorization is legally and constitutionally required — the President cannot legally act alone without the U.S. Congress. This construct is part of the genius of our nation's democratic system and our Constitutional checks and balances. We welcome the opportunity to listen to the facts of this matter in the most public forum. While a review of the evidence, both classified and unclassified, as to the use of chemical is important, we are already inclined to believe that these horrific weapons were used based on public and social media accounts. We believe that the question before the U.S. Congress is not "can the Obama Administration prove that the Syrian government used chemical weapons?" Rather, the paramount question is, if that is true, "what is the best course for the United States to take, and why?" Here are just a few of the questions that are at the heart of what Congress must debate as we and our colleagues determine the best course for the United States to take: Ç What role should the United States play in enforcing international treaties prohibiting the use of chemical weapons? Ç International treaties are frequently violated by various nations. What precedent does it set if the United States acts in this case? Will the U.S. be placed in a position where we must respond whenever treaties are seriously violated? If not, why? Ç Civilian massacres have occurred in other countries without U.S. military intervention and are occurring today in Egypt, for example. Would action in Syria set a precedent for action in other parts of the world? If not, why not? Ç Should the U.S. take action when international bodies, including the UN and NATO, have declined to do so? Ç Should the U.S. take action when the United Nations has asked that we not do so? Ç Should the U.S. act when other nations decline to participate with our country in taking such action, including Great Britain? Arab nations? Ç If action is taken by the United States what impact will it have on the future behavior of the Assad regime? On what basis are we concluding that Syria will change its behavior based on a U.S. attack on Syrian targets? Ç If the U.S. attack is limited in scope and time, what message will that give to Syria as well as other nations such as Iran? If the action is protracted in scope and time, what are the potential costs in American lives and U.S. taxpayer dollars? For U.S. prestige in the world and in the Middle East? Ç How would U.S. military action against Syria make the American people safer? The Syrian people? The people of Israel? Ç If a U.S. attack assists the rebels in overthrowing the Assad regime, who takes over in Syria? If the Assad regime falls, will further civil war ensue between competing rebel factions? What role will Al Qaeda play? Ç The Syrian civil war is also a proxy war for other powers, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Russia and other non-state actors such as Hezbollah and Al Qaeda. What impact would U.S. action have on these other actors? Ç Will the unrest in Syria spread in the region if the U.S. acts? If the U.S. does not act? Ç What impact would U.S. action have on our closest ally in the region, Israel? Would a U.S. attack on Syria lead to retaliatory attacks against Israel or others? What will the reaction of Israel be in that case? What U.S. action would then be required? Ç If our country decides that some action by the U.S. is required, what should that action be? Should further diplomatic efforts, as opposed to military action, be considered? Are there feasible sanctions that could be put in place? Other actions? Ç If military action is proposed, what are the targets, the scope and the cost? What is expected to be accomplished and how will that serve the interests of the United States? Syria? The Middle East? The World? Ç What is our strategy for Syria (and for the Middle East generally) and how would military action support or damage that strategy? Ç If the Assad regime, or even the rebels, were to engage in actions that appear to violate international treaties including the use of chemical weapons in the future what action would the U.S. take? What would be the consequences of further action or inaction in such a case in terms of spread of war, entanglement of the U.S. in the Syrian civil war, U.S. reputation around the world, and the perception of American strength and resolve by Iran and North Korea? To what extent is the U.S. "painting ourselves into a corner" by attacking Syria now? Will that force us to attack again in response to further violations? If not, why? Ç What impact would U.S. military action have on relations between Russia and our country? What are the short and long term implications for Russia and the U.S., including efforts to continue the reduction of nuclear arms by our two nations? Ç What are the possible adverse results of U.S. military action in Syria? What steps have been taken to address those potential adverse impacts? What is the "end game?" We hope the Congressional debate will be carried out at the highest level, with the result that the United States acts, or does not act, after the most deliberative consideration. In that regard, we ask the President to make his case in the light of public scrutiny, not by "classified" briefings that are kept from the American people and which Members of Congress are prohibited from discussing publicly. This debate will have its needed effect only if it is fully transparent. We pledge to our constituents and fellow Americans that we will carefully weigh the facts and options that face the United States at this juncture. We look forward to debating and hearing answers to these questions, and other relevant ones that may emerge, as we examine the facts and further hear from our constituents on this very serious issue facing our country. # # #
08.31.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following joint statement today regarding Congress and the potential authorization of U.S. military action in Syria: We are pleased that President Obama will seek Congressional authorization before engaging in any military hostilities against Syria. That authorization is legally and constitutionally required — the President cannot legally act alone without the U.S. Congress. This construct is part of the genius of our nation's democratic system and our Constitutional checks and balances. We welcome the opportunity to listen to the facts of this matter in the most public forum. While a review of the evidence, both classified and unclassified, as to the use of chemical is important, we are already inclined to believe that these horrific weapons were used based on public and social media accounts. We believe that the question before the U.S. Congress is not "can the Obama Administration prove that the Syrian government used chemical weapons?" Rather, the paramount question is, if that is true, "what is the best course for the United States to take, and why?" Here are just a few of the questions that are at the heart of what Congress must debate as we and our colleagues determine the best course for the United States to take: Ç What role should the United States play in enforcing international treaties prohibiting the use of chemical weapons? Ç International treaties are frequently violated by various nations. What precedent does it set if the United States acts in this case? Will the U.S. be placed in a position where we must respond whenever treaties are seriously violated? If not, why? Ç Civilian massacres have occurred in other countries without U.S. military intervention and are occurring today in Egypt, for example. Would action in Syria set a precedent for action in other parts of the world? If not, why not? Ç Should the U.S. take action when international bodies, including the UN and NATO, have declined to do so? Ç Should the U.S. take action when the United Nations has asked that we not do so? Ç Should the U.S. act when other nations decline to participate with our country in taking such action, including Great Britain? Arab nations? Ç If action is taken by the United States what impact will it have on the future behavior of the Assad regime? On what basis are we concluding that Syria will change its behavior based on a U.S. attack on Syrian targets? Ç If the U.S. attack is limited in scope and time, what message will that give to Syria as well as other nations such as Iran? If the action is protracted in scope and time, what are the potential costs in American lives and U.S. taxpayer dollars? For U.S. prestige in the world and in the Middle East? Ç How would U.S. military action against Syria make the American people safer? The Syrian people? The people of Israel? Ç If a U.S. attack assists the rebels in overthrowing the Assad regime, who takes over in Syria? If the Assad regime falls, will further civil war ensue between competing rebel factions? What role will Al Qaeda play? Ç The Syrian civil war is also a proxy war for other powers, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Russia and other non-state actors such as Hezbollah and Al Qaeda. What impact would U.S. action have on these other actors? Ç Will the unrest in Syria spread in the region if the U.S. acts? If the U.S. does not act? Ç What impact would U.S. action have on our closest ally in the region, Israel? Would a U.S. attack on Syria lead to retaliatory attacks against Israel or others? What will the reaction of Israel be in that case? What U.S. action would then be required? Ç If our country decides that some action by the U.S. is required, what should that action be? Should further diplomatic efforts, as opposed to military action, be considered? Are there feasible sanctions that could be put in place? Other actions? Ç If military action is proposed, what are the targets, the scope and the cost? What is expected to be accomplished and how will that serve the interests of the United States? Syria? The Middle East? The World? Ç What is our strategy for Syria (and for the Middle East generally) and how would military action support or damage that strategy? Ç If the Assad regime, or even the rebels, were to engage in actions that appear to violate international treaties including the use of chemical weapons in the future what action would the U.S. take? What would be the consequences of further action or inaction in such a case in terms of spread of war, entanglement of the U.S. in the Syrian civil war, U.S. reputation around the world, and the perception of American strength and resolve by Iran and North Korea? To what extent is the U.S. "painting ourselves into a corner" by attacking Syria now? Will that force us to attack again in response to further violations? If not, why? Ç What impact would U.S. military action have on relations between Russia and our country? What are the short and long term implications for Russia and the U.S., including efforts to continue the reduction of nuclear arms by our two nations? Ç What are the possible adverse results of U.S. military action in Syria? What steps have been taken to address those potential adverse impacts? What is the "end game?" We hope the Congressional debate will be carried out at the highest level, with the result that the United States acts, or does not act, after the most deliberative consideration. In that regard, we ask the President to make his case in the light of public scrutiny, not by "classified" briefings that are kept from the American people and which Members of Congress are prohibited from discussing publicly. This debate will have its needed effect only if it is fully transparent. We pledge to our constituents and fellow Americans that we will carefully weigh the facts and options that face the United States at this juncture. We look forward to debating and hearing answers to these questions, and other relevant ones that may emerge, as we examine the facts and further hear from our constituents on this very serious issue facing our country. # # #
08.30.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today after President Obama's remarks at the White House that he is still actively considering hostilities against Syria. "When President Obama tells us that he has not yet made a "decision" on whether the U.S. military will commence hostilities with Syria, he has misunderstood his authority. As Constitutional scholars have said, including Mr. Obama himself when he was running for his office, the President should understand that it is not his decision alone to make. He is required to obtain the consent of the U.S. Congress before he engages in hostilities with Syria. To commence hostilities without statutory authorization from Congress violates the War Powers Resolution of 1973 and the United States Constitution. To argue that dropping bombs on another country for a short period of time is not an act of war is foolishness. Internationally his footing is equally perilous. Without a resolution from the UN Security Council, and in the face of a request from the UN that no action commence until a full report from UN inspectors is received, America cannot commence hostilities with Syria while remaining within the bounds of international law. The Obama administration says we must act to defend "international norms." But how can we defend international norms by breaking international law? For the President to act without Congressional authorization, without UN approval, without the support of the Arab League, and without our closest ally Great Britain, would be a serious error. The debate on the wisdom of military action, and what form it might take should we choose that option, remains to be had in the Congress of the United States, and in the context of the wishes of the American people. President Obama must not rush to action without allowing our American democracy and Constitutional system to function. Like many Members of Congress, I doubt the wisdom of initiating further hostilities in the Middle East. However, like all Members, I will approach that debate with an open mind, listen to the President, and then join with my colleagues in exercising our Constitutional and statutory authority over matters of war and peace. Only after such a debate, and only with the approval of both houses of Congress, could the President legitimately proceed." ###
08.27.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today regarding reports that President Obama may be considering a military response after allegations that the Syrian government used chemical weapons on its citizens: "An effort is being made by the Administration to comply with International Law‹but we must first comply with American law. The War Powers Act requires action by Congress before engaging in hostilities unless our country is attacked. The civil war in Syria, with its atrocities, is a matter of serious humanitarian concern. But this civil war does not constitute an attack on the US nor does it pose imminent danger to America. It would be inconsistent with American law for military action to be initiated without Congressional authorization. I encourage everyone, including members of the Administration, to read the War Powers Act before moving forward with any military response." Click here to read the War Powers Resolution of 1973 #### CA - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today paying tribute to life of Cindy Avitia, a former Congressional assistant in her San Jose, Calif., office who was killed in a car accident on August 22, 2013. Avitia, an immigration attorney and advocate for justice, most recently served on the board of directors for Alpha Public Schools: "It is with profound sadness that I and my office learned the news of the passing of our former colleague and friend Cindy Avitia. All of us who knew and worked with Cindy are shocked and devastated by her passing. "Cindy was uncommonly bright, dedicated and caring. I valued her dedication to family, community and justice. During the four years Cindy served on my San Jose staff I learned to admire not only her intelligence and education but her tremendous commitment to community. My prayers are with her husband, Jose, her two beautiful young children, her parents, and all Cindy's family, friends and colleagues who are mourning her loss. "As we grieve her tragic loss, we can take pride in the fact that during her short life Cindy did more to promote strong, caring families in our community and advance the cause of justice than many people accomplish in a lifetime dedicated to public service. I am rocked by the tragic news of her passing and feel her loss acutely. I will never forget her." # # # - See more at: /index.php?option=com_content&;view=article&id=822:rep-zoe-lofgren-pays-tribute-to-the-life-of-cindy-avitia&catid=22:112th-news&Itemid=161#sthash.7cZWUlC5.dpuf SAN JOSE, CA - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today paying tribute to life of Cindy Avitia, a former Congressional assistant in her San Jose, Calif., office who was killed in a car accident on August 22, 2013. Avitia, an immigration attorney and advocate for justice, most recently served on the board of directors for Alpha Public Schools: "It is with profound sadness that I and my office learned the news of the passing of our former colleague and friend Cindy Avitia. All of us who knew and worked with Cindy are shocked and devastated by her passing. "Cindy was uncommonly bright, dedicated and caring. I valued her dedication to family, community and justice. During the four years Cindy served on my San Jose staff I learned to admire not only her intelligence and education but her tremendous commitment to community. My prayers are with her husband, Jose, her two beautiful young children, her parents, and all Cindy's family, friends and colleagues who are mourning her loss. "As we grieve her tragic loss, we can take pride in the fact that during her short life Cindy did more to promote strong, caring families in our community and advance the cause of justice than many people accomplish in a lifetime dedicated to public service. I am rocked by the tragic news of her passing and feel her loss acutely. I will never forget her." # # # - See more at: /index.php?option=com_content&;view=article&id=822:rep-zoe-lofgren-pays-tribute-to-the-life-of-cindy-avitia&catid=22:112th-news&Itemid=161#sthash.7cZWUlC5.dpuf
08.23.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today paying tribute to life of Cindy Avitia, a former Congressional assistant in her San Jose, Calif., office who was killed in a car accident on August 22, 2013. Avitia, an immigration attorney and advocate for justice, most recently served on the board of directors for Alpha Public Schools: "It is with profound sadness that I and my office learned the news of the passing of our former colleague and friend Cindy Avitia. All of us who knew and worked with Cindy are shocked and devastated by her passing. "Cindy was uncommonly bright, dedicated and caring. I valued her dedication to family, community and justice. During the four years Cindy served on my San Jose staff I learned to admire not only her intelligence and education but her tremendous commitment to community. My prayers are with her husband, Jose, her two beautiful young children, her parents, and all Cindy's family, friends and colleagues who are mourning her loss. "As we grieve her tragic loss, we can take pride in the fact that during her short life Cindy did more to promote strong, caring families in our community and advance the cause of justice than many people accomplish in a lifetime dedicated to public service. I am rocked by the tragic news of her passing and feel her loss acutely. I will never forget her." # # #
08.15.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, Calif.) issued the following statement on the ongoing Time Warner Cable-CBS contract dispute that has resulted in the television blackout of millions of people in markets across the country: "When contract disputes between cable and content providers arise, it is often customers who bear the brunt of the effects. In a trend that is becoming all too common, the recent blackout between Time Warner Cable and CBS has left millions of customers without access to the programming they were promised. "I find this increased willingness to hold customers hostage during business negotiations disturbing, and urge Time Warner Cable and CBS to reach a swift resolution. With this blackout entering its third week, it is obvious that the current state-of-affairs is unfair to consumers. It is time we reexamine whether our current laws offer the level of protection they deserve." # # #
08.14.2013	Today twenty-eight Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), led by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco); Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), the Chair of the CDCD; and Mike Honda (D-San Jose), released the following letter to California Governor Edmund "Jerry" Brown expressing their support for A.B. 4, the Transparency and Responsibility in Using State Tools Act ("TRUST Act"), and urged him to sign the bill. The following is the full text of the letter which can also be viewed by clicking here: August 12, 2013 Governor Edmund G. Brown, Jr. c/o State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacrament, CA 95814 Re: The TRUST Act, AB 4(Ammiano) Dear Governor Brown: As Members of the California Congressional Delegation, we write to offer our strong support for the Transparency and Responsibility Using State Tools (TRUST) Act (AB 4-Ammiano). The bill sets clear, uniform standards to limit burdensome detentions of aspiring citizens by local law enforcement solely on the basis of federal immigration detainer requests. The measure is designed to enhance public safety and protect civil liberties, while also promoting fiscal responsibility at the state and local levels. The TRUST Act was introduced in response to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency's "Secure Communities" program (S-Comm). S-Comm was ostensibly created in order to focus "on the identification and removal of [immigrants] who are convicted of a serious criminal offense and are subject to removal" (Secure Communities Memorandum of Agreement Template). However, this program has instead resulted in the detention and deportation of many who have never been convicted of any crime, or have only been convicted of minor crimes, including traffic offenses. In fact, almost 100,000 Californians have been deported under the S-Comm Program since its inception. (ICE Interoperability Statistics May 31, 2013). Civic and faith leaders from California and across the country have forcefully argued that we should not deport today those who could be on the road to citizenship tomorrow. Moreover, a growing body of evidence shows that the S-Comm Program has reduced the willingness of immigrant and non-immigrant crime victims and witnesses to cooperate with local law enforcement, and consequently has diminished public safety. A recent report "Insecure Communities: Latino Perceptions of Police Involvement in Immigration Enforcement" by the University of Illinois at Chicago demonstrated the chilling effect of the program, finding that 70% of undocumented Latinos are less likely to call the police if they are victims of crimes. The TRUST Act is intended to restore the public's trust in local law enforcement by drawing a clear line between local law enforcement and federal immigration enforcement. It is also fully consistent with President Obama's purported efforts to prioritize the removal of individuals with serious criminal convictions and the original, stated purpose of Secure Communities itself. In response to your veto, the current version of the TRUST Act gives law enforcement much broader discretion to honor detainer requests than last year's vetoed bill. For example, the TRUST Act allows holds for felony charges — including non-violent felonies — before conviction, so long as a judge makes a finding of probable cause after a not-guilty plea. The proposal also allows holds for people with misdemeanor "wobbler" convictions within 5 years, (technically known as wobblers, these crimes can also be charged as felonies). For domestic violence, the bill limits holds to those with convictions only, since many survivors are arrested along with those who abuse them. The TRUST Act is a vital policy because it establishes a bright line standard between local law enforcement and federal immigration enforcement. It will ensure that those who have not been convicted of any crime, have only been convicted of minor crimes, or those who are only identified by the S-Comm program because of their immigration history, are not held on costly and unfair federal immigration detainers. Today we proudly join with faith leaders, local government leaders, and legal scholars who already have lent their support to the TRUST Act. We strongly support AB 4 as written and encourage you to sign the bill when it is presented to you by the legislature and to continue California's proud tradition of being a leader on smart and sensible policies. Sincerely, Nancy Pelosi Zoe Lofgren Mike Honda Karen Bass Xavier Becerra Julia Brownley Tony Cardenas Judy Chu Anna G. Eshoo Sam Farr Janice Hahn Jared Huffman Barbara Lee Alan Lowenthal Doris Matsui Gloria Negrete McLeod George Miller Grace Napolitano Scott Peters Lucille Roybal-Allard Linda T. Sanchez Loretta Sanchez Adam Schiff Eric Swalwell Mark Takano Mike Thompson Juan Vargas Maxine Waters # # #
08.02.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and a bipartisan coalition of leading Congressional voices calling to rein in overreaching surveillance programs have introduced legislation today that would enable companies to shed light on the number of surveillance orders they receive and how many of their users are affected by those demands for information. Under the Surveillance Order Reporting Act, telecommunications and Internet service providers would be allowed to publicly estimate the number of data requests they receive and the number of individuals targeted for data collection orders under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and national security letters. The bill is being co-sponsored by Reps. Justin Amash (R-MI), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), John Conyers (D-MI), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX) and Jared Polis (D-CO). The government currently bars companies from disclosing even basic information about the requests they receive. The lawmakers have said this lack of basic information impedes informed public debate, undermines user trust in Internet services, and has led to strained relationships between U.S. companies and international business partners. Rep. Lofgren noted that the legislation is needed to provide greater transparency to the public and allow Internet and telecommunications companies to preserve global confidence in their services. "The recent debate in Congress on these programs made it clear that we can't have an intelligent discussion on this issue without a more accurate grasp of the scope of surveillance," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "This bill is a needed first step to free Internet companies to provide the public information on how many surveillance orders they receive and how many of their users are affected." "The public is eager for a national conversation on how to strike the right balance between privacy and national security, and this bipartisan bill is a step towards providing the transparency that will inform this important conversation," said Rep. Suzan DelBene. "Providing access to basic information about how the government is using its surveillance authorities will help provide greater accountability and oversight of these surveillance programs, and I am pleased to join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to cosponsor this legislation." "I am proud to join Representative Lofgren in continuing to shine a spotlight on the NSA's surveillance program," said Rep. Jared Polis. "This bill will finally permit Internet companies to publicly release statistics on the surveillance orders requested by the federal government. I believe our government can balance our privacy and national security needs without harming the bottom lines of U.S. based companies." A growing chorus of technology firms and lawmakers has called for the government to allow companies to report FISA orders and national security letters separately from more conventional data requests from law enforcement. In a letter last month, Reps. Lofgren and James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) had requested Attorney General Eric Holder and Director of National Intelligence James Clapper to allow U.S. companies to issue general reports in a similar manner. Thus far, however, companies are only permitted to release vague, minimally helpful figures. The Surveillance Order Reporting Act is specifically tailored to authorize companies to release more detailed information to the public while avoiding danger to national security. Specifically, the bill provides that: Internet and telecommunications companies may report an estimated number of surveillance orders received, the estimated number of orders complied with, and the estimated number of users and accounts on whom information is requested or provided. The reports may include the number of users affected by requests that carry over though multiple reporting periods. The numbers reported may be in a range of 100, rounded to the nearest 100s (i.e., 1-100, 100-200, etc.). The reports may be made quarterly or in larger time periods (i.e., annually, semi-annually, etc.) Service providers are not subject to criminal or civil liability for making reports they reasonably believe are authorized by the bill. The bill does not prohibit other disclosures authorized by other laws. Click here for a detailed summary of the legislation. # # #
08.01.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, released a letter they have sent to Vietnamese President Troung Tan Sang calling for the immediate release of Nguyen Van Hai, a blogger and peaceful activist better known by his pen name "Dieu Cay – the Peasant's Pipe." Nguyen, a founding member of the pro-freedom of the press Free Vietnamese Journalist Club who was sentenced to 12 years in prison in 2012, has been on a hunger strike since June 23rd to protest his inhumane detention conditions. The lawmakers told Vietnamese President Sang they are concerned for his health and well-being, and urged Sang to intervene. "If the government of Vietnam wants to continue to engage in trade and relations with the U.S., then President Sang must stop these violations of basic human rights and give prisoners of conscience like Nguyen Van Hai their freedom," said Rep. Lofgren. "I condemn the Government of Vietnam for its continued crackdowns against community organizers and social activists," said Rep. Sanchez. "I have been calling for the Hanoi authorities to release Blogger Dieu Cay Nguyen Van Hai since 2008, when he was unjustly imprisoned for being in the forefront of a movement of citizen journalists, reporting on issues of national concerns such as corruption and police brutality. I strongly urge the Government of Vietnam to immediately release Blogger Dieu Cay so he and his family may seek appropriate medical care after a 40-day hunger strike. The Vietnamese government must cease its prosecution of citizens like Nguyen Van Hai for peacefully expressing their views. They have been harassed and persecuted for far too long." Reps. Lofgren and Sanchez expressed their concern over increased efforts by the communist Vietnamese government to silence voices of opposition in direct violation of the guarantees of free expression Vietnam has agreed to uphold as a signer of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In fact, Human Rights Watch (HRW) recently noted that the Vietnamese government has increasingly targeted peaceful advocates, religious minorities, journalists and citizens for arrest and imprisonment as political prisoners. According to HRW, by June of this year, more people had been sentenced for peaceful dissent than in all of 2012. Similarly, Reporters Without Borders ranks Vietnam as 172nd of 179 countries in its Press Freedom Index, and the independent watchdog organization Freedom House listed the country as "not free" along with Iran, Syria and Burma in its 2012 Freedom on the Net report. In April Reps. Lofgren and Sanchez introduced H.R. 1682, the Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement in Vietnam ("FREE Vietnam") Act. The bipartisan bill would bar Vietnam from enjoying special U.S. trade preferences until the country's communist government takes serious measures to curb human rights abuses. Click here to view the letter. # # #
08.01.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced today that San Jose State University (SJSU) has been awarded a substantial grant totaling $622,316 by the National Science Foundation (NSF) benefitting students pursuing degrees in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields. Rep. Lofgren noted the grant will be distributed over a four-year period as scholarships to help motivated, deserving students continue towards advanced degrees and careers in STEM fields. "The race is on to lead the world in 21st Century innovation, and the strength of our economy depends on the ingenuity these kinds of students can offer," said Rep. Lofgren. "These scholarships, averaging $8,700 each year, will help 45-60 students at SJSU pursue their dreams of higher education in critically needed STEM fields. Investing in education is an investment in our future success. I will continue to work to lower barriers and bring a good college education within reach for all students and their families." The scholarships will be awarded to students based on their academic performance, documented financial need, and their commitment to a career as a scientist. In addition to scholarship funding, students will also get access to research opportunities to advance their studies and work experience. They will serve as role models for future STEM majors, gaining teaching experience through various tutoring programs. # # #
07.23.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement during a hearing entitled "Addressing the Immigration Status of Illegal Immigrants Brought to the United States as Children": "Today's hearing examines a critically important issue in our broken immigration system: the treatment of undocumented young people who were brought to the United States as children. These are kids who have grown up in this country, have attended American high schools, and who often know no other country as home. "This subcommittee last held a hearing about these "Dreamers" in 2007, when three young women testified about their lives. One of the witnesses, Tam Tran, grew up in California, graduated from Santiago High School in Garden Grove, California and from UCLA with a bachelor's degree in American Literature and Culture‹with honors. Tam was in the Ph.D. program in American Civilization at Brown University and was continuing to serve as a leading voice in support of the DREAM Act when she and a close friend‹another Dreamer‹died in a car crash on May 15, 2010. "I wanted to recognize Tam as we begin this hearing because I am mindful of what Martin Luther King, Jr. referred to as the "fierce urgency of now." Right now we have an historic opportunity to fix our broken immigration system, and it would be a national shame if we were unable to do that. One part of that fix‹an important and compelling part of that fix‹is to ensure that Dreamers have an opportunity to become just as American on paper as they already are in their hearts. "I believe there is strong bipartisan support for that principle, and I am encouraged by some of what I have heard on this issue from Republican Members‹including those in leadership‹over the past few months. In some ways this is not new; the DREAM Act was first introduced as bipartisan legislation in 2001 and has had bipartisan support ever since. But the breadth of support in Congress is promising, and I am extremely pleased that this breadth of support will be reflected by the witnesses who will be testifying today. "But as encouraged as I am by the focus of our hearing today, I must also say that I have concerns about some of what I have read in the press leading up to this hearing. I understand that Majority Leader Cantor and Chairman Goodlatte are working on a legislative proposal that is rumored to be called the "Kids Act." Their desire to become champions for this issue is a positive development and is in many ways a testament to the hard work that Dreamers themselves have done to build a coalition by telling their stories and advocating for change. "But like the immigration bills that this Committee marked up in June, we have not seen the language of the Kids Act and we have not been asked to contribute to that effort. While I am looking forward to reviewing the Kids Act when its authors are prepared to share it, I note that this is a sharp departure from the history of DREAM Act legislation that has always been drafted and introduced with bipartisan support. "I am even more concerned about reports that some Republican Members may be working on legislation that would allow undocumented immigrants other than Dreamers to obtain some temporary lawful status but without a specific path to permanent residency. "I want to be clear: I recognize that this represents significant progress and I welcome that. I believe it shows a growing appreciation that we cannot fix our broken immigration system without addressing the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are part of our businesses, our communities, and our families. "But I believe it would be a grave mistake to allow millions of people to come out of the shadows and obtain lawful immigration status, only to leave them in a second-class status for the rest of their lives. As I said at the Committee's very first hearing in this Congress, partial legalization is a dangerous path. We need only look at France and Germany to see how unwise it is to create a permanent underclass. What makes America special is that people come here, assimilate, and become fully American‹with all of the rights and responsibilities that citizenship bestows. "The American people agree. In a recent Gallup poll, Americans were asked the following question: "Would you favor or oppose each of the following as part of legislation to address the issue of illegal immigration?" They were then provided various components of a top-to-bottom reform of our immigration laws: mandatory E-Verify, tightened border security, increased visas for skilled workers, and "allowing illegal immigrants to become citizens." In the context of a broader fix to our broken immigration system, 88% said they favored a path to earned citizenship for the undocumented. Support was overwhelmingly strong across all ideological and ethnic groups: among conservative, non-Hispanic white respondents, 83% favored a path to citizenship and only 17% opposed. "We have an opportunity now to do something that will help strengthen America's economy. We have an opportunity to keep families together. And for everyone who believes in the rule of law‹and I think that all of us on the Judiciary Committee believe firmly in the rule of law‹we have an opportunity to design an immigration system that promotes law-abiding behavior, instead of our current one that actually depends upon law-breaking. "This opportunity does not come often. I feel as though my entire time in Congress‹all 18+ years‹has been spent looking for an opening to fix our broken immigration system once and for all. This is that time. The Senate passed a bipartisan immigration reform bill and I am doing everything I can to make sure the House is able to do the same. If we work together I think we can make that happen and I think the country will be better as a result." # # # Click here for video from today's hearing.
07.23.2013	Following a meeting today at the White House, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D- CA), Susan Davis (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Scott Peters (D-CA) said they had received a commitment from President Obama to address human rights concerns with Vietnam President Truong Tan Sang during an upcoming meeting of the two leaders. The lawmakers welcomed the President's assurances, and said he told them that the human rights issues they raised were a priority for his upcoming meeting with Sang. "I welcome President Obama's commitment to include human rights as a priority topic in his upcoming talks with Vietnam's President Sang," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. "According to independent groups and advocates, Vietnam's deplorable human rights record has only gotten worse in the past few years. The United States can play an important role by making it clear that the future of good relations with our country goes hand in hand with Vietnam affording its citizens their basic rights." "I want to thank President Obama for his commitment to raising the issue of human rights during his upcoming meeting with President Truong Tan Sang," said Rep Susan Davis. "We need to send a strong and clear message that human rights abuses in Vietnam need to end immediately. Trade must not come at the expense of human rights." "I was gratified to hear the President today express his concern over human rights violations in Vietnam and his understanding that now is the time to bring up these issues with President Sang," Rep. Alan Lowenthal said. "I feel that anyone who supports ending human rights violations in Vietnam has an important ally in the White House. We must continue to remind President Sang and the government of Vietnam that all people are entitled to their basic human rights, and that we will continue fighting to make sure these rights are not infringed upon." "The United States does not take human rights abuses lightly," Rep. Scott Peters said. "I am encouraged that the President is keeping these issues on his priority list and am confident that he will convey our concerns to Vietnamese President Sang during their meeting." The lawmakers noted that increased bilateral engagement in trade and cultural exchanges have not led to improvements for basic rights in Vietnam. In fact, Human Rights Watch (HRW) has noted that the Vietnamese government has increasingly targeted peaceful advocates, religious minorities, journalists and citizens for arrest and imprisonment as political prisoners. According to HRW, by June of this year, more people had been sentenced for peaceful dissent than in all of 2012. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom's 2013 report named Vietnam as a "Tier 1 country of particular concern," placing it in the same category as oppressive regimes including Burma, Iran, North Korea and Sudan. Similarly, Reporters Without Borders ranks Vietnam as 172nd of 179 countries in its Press Freedom Index, and the independent watchdog organization Freedom House listed the country as "not free" along with Iran, Syria and Burma in its 2012 Freedom on the Net report. In April Rep. Lofgren introduced H.R. 1682, the Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement in Vietnam ("FREE Vietnam") Act. The bipartisan bill would bar Vietnam from enjoying special U.S. trade preferences until the country's communist government takes serious measures to curb human rights abuses. # # #
07.17.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced today that the Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport will receive more than $3 million in federal funding for runway related construction and improvements through a U.S. Department of Transportation grant. The grant funds the sixth phase of an ongoing $55 million construction project begun in 2009 improving the airport's general aviation taxiway running parallel to Runway 11/29. To date more than $37 million in federal funds have gone towards the project improving the airport's general aviation taxiway to provide connections from the west side of the airfield to the existing taxiway/runway network for expanded uses, including air cargo and corporate aviation. "Through expanded service and greater options, Mineta San Jose International is growing as the gateway of choice for travelers coming to the Valley," said Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren. "Improvements like this not only put people to work and boost our economy, they enhance the safety and capabilities that make our airport more attractive to travelers, airlines, and aviation businesses." "I was proud to fight for this project to continue moving forward," said Congressman Mike Honda. "These improvements are vital to the economic growth of Silicon Valley, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to ensure that our region receives the funding, infrastructure, and support it needs to remain the world's high-tech innovation capital." Both Reps. Lofgren and Honda have been strong supporters of the improvement project and instrumental in securing funding for the construction. The grant funding is provided through the Airport Improvement Program of the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration, which supports the nation's airport infrastructure by providing grants for capital improvements. # # #
07.02.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), as part of a bipartisan coalition of sixteen Members of Congress, filed an amicus brief with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), urging the court to release its secret opinions interpreting Section 215 of the Patriot Act. Recent leaks to the media revealed that the National Security Agency (NSA) has conducted a massive surveillance program on all domestic telephone users over the last seven years. "The Constitution gives Congress the responsibility to craft rules for how the government operates," Rep. Lofgren said. "But Congress is unable to carry out this responsibility to improve the law without adequate insight into how the FISA court is interpreting those rules. The text of the statutes alone are insufficient for Congress and the public to have a meaningful debate on how to balance our surveillance practices with our civil liberties." The amicus brief supports the American Civil Liberties Union's (ACLU's) motion to release the FISC opinions. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act requires the Attorney General to transmit "significant" opinions to the intelligence and judiciary committees of the House and Senate. Those opinions generally are not released to rank-and-file Members of Congress or the public, as the amicus brief notes. The amicus brief is available here: The ACLU's motion is available here: Other Members who joined the brief offered comments as well: Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI): "Secret law is anathema to a free country. Congress cannot effectively legislate until it knows what the law is. The American public cannot engage in a meaningful debate about liberty and surveillance until it knows what its government is doing. We call on the FISA court to release its significant Patriot Act rulings." Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA): "It is absolutely critical that Congress and all Americans know how the government is interpreting the law—especially when there are so many troubling signs of abuse. This amicus brief presents the simple Constitutional principle that the law and its judicial interpretation must be open to robust debate, not shrouded in secrecy. I urge the FISA Court to reveal their opinions on the meaning, scope, and Constitutionality of Section 215 of the Patriot Act as requested. Only then can we truly work to ensure that our constituents' Fourth Amendment rights are protected." Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI): "We need to have a vigorous debate and review of our federal government's surveillance activities, their constitutionality, and impact on our civil liberties. However, without accurate information about these laws and how they're being executed, a full and robust debate is not possible. Making these FISA court opinions available to all members of Congress will enable us to fulfill our responsibilities in ensuring that government strikes the proper balance between upholding the freedoms we cherish, and securing our nation." Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA): "It is difficult to do my job as a Congressman and uphold my oath to defend the Constitution when getting access to the records necessary to do my job requires permission from a select small group of other Congressmen." Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ): "Our argument to the court is simple: secret law and legal opinions are antithetical to Congressional oversight and the democratic process. It is my hope the Court will listen to this bipartisan request that these opinions be made public." Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA): "The right to privacy in this country is non-negotiable. While I believe that national security is essential, we must protect our most basic civil liberties and move forward in a way that does not sacrifice our American values and freedoms. We must ensure that we keep a better balance between our privacy and our national security by re-establishing and strengthening Congress' vital role of accountability and oversight of this issue." Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-TX): "Our democracy is based on informed public debate, but most in Congress are shut-out from information regarding the work of the FISA court, making it impossible for us to conduct effective oversight or take the steps needed to protect the civil liberties and constitutional rights of our constituents. We were moved to join this case urging disclosure of FISA court opinions to Congress and the public to guarantee that we can fulfill our duty to enact sound laws and defend the Constitution." Rep. Mark Sanford (R-SC): "It is important to better understand how Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act is being implemented and where there is room for improvement. Requiring the FISA courts to make their opinions public could prove an important step toward better protecting America from terrorism without compromising the constitutional rights of its citizens." ###
06.28.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Mike Honda (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Patents And Trademarks Encourage New Technology (PATENT) Jobs Act today to exempt the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) from the debilitating cuts imposed by budget sequestration (bill text). Even though the USPTO is funded solely by patent user fees, the sequester requires cuts of nearly $150 million in the agency's funding. Without a legislative remedy, the shortfall effectively stops the agency from opening five new, highly anticipated regional patent offices across the country, including one located in Silicon Valley. The USPTO currently has a patent backlog of 640,000 applicants, and the new offices were announced to speed the process for start-ups and innovators who can face a costly two-year wait for a patent to be issued. "It is very short-sighted to hold back the new products and cutting edge technologies that can grow our economy," said Rep. Lofgren. "Our bill is very simple and reaffirms a long held belief that inventors who pay fees should receive speedy services and patents for their inventions. The services and speed these new offices offer can make the difference for products to go from the drawing board to the marketplace faster, benefiting all of us with the growth and job creation that come with it." "USPTO is funded entirely by fees paid to the agency, making it fundamentally different than other government spending," said Rep. Honda. "Congress intended for these fees to be used solely to carry out USPTO's operations, not the government at large. Our bill will prevent the application of sequestration to USPTO fee revenue so that the Silicon Valley office can open as scheduled and USPTO can continue the progress that has been made on reducing the patent application backlog, which is vital for ensuring America's economic competitiveness." "The U.S. Patent Office has been crucial to economic growth and innovation in America. Sequestering this self-funded agency is illogical and sets it up to fail," Rep. Eshoo said. "These cuts will exacerbate the patent backlog and stifle efforts to connect Silicon Valley innovators with a satellite patent office. Our legislation will enable USPTO to implement reforms and programs years in the making so that the agency can continue to foster the wealth of knowledge and innovation across America." The PATENT Jobs Act would enable USPTO to access the fee revenue sequestered in Fiscal Year 2013, which would otherwise sit unused and untouchable, and would add USPTO to the list of agencies exempt from sequestration orders. This is not a new budgetary concept; Congress has recognized the uniqueness of user-fee-funded agencies in the past, exempting them from sequestration in the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010. The legislation follows a bipartisan letter sent earlier this week by members of the California delegation to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee asking for a remedy. USPTO announced the selection of Silicon Valley for one of four new regional patent offices last summer. The decision was broadly hailed at the time to strengthen the connection between our nation's preeminent innovation hub and USPTO, help start-ups and inventors access USPTO resources more easily and effectively, and expedite patent processing for entrepreneurs. A number of trade and industry groups and bar associations have joined in calling upon the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress to address the application of sequestration to USPTO and are supportive of efforts to exempt USPTO from sequestration: Endorsed by the American Intellectual Property Law Association, the American Bar Association, Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, and the Intellectual Property Owners Association; The Silicon Valley Leadership Group are calling on OMB and Congress to address the problem; and A coalition of AdvaMed, California Healthcare Institute, CONNECT, the Innovation Alliance, IFPTE, MDMA, NTEU, NVCA, POPA, and WARF have called on Congress to "rectify this unacceptable diversion of fees by restoring to the USPTO all of the fees being paid in 2013 and ensure that future across-the-board cuts will not impact fees paid to the USPTO." ###
06.28.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), the Chair of the California Congressional Delegation (CDCD), is spearheading an effort with 26 of her colleagues in the delegation to designate McDonnell Hall in San Jose, Calif., as a National Historic Landmark because of the significant role it played in the life of civil rights leader Cesar Chavez. In a letter to Sally Jewell, Secretary of the Department of the Interior, the lawmakers say McDonnell Hall, previously used as the Chapel of Our Lady of Guadalupe, should be preserved as 'a significant historical resource that will benefit future generations.' They urged Secretary Jewell to give the request to preserve the landmark her full consideration. "This simple chapel nurtured one of our greatest civil rights champions and a movement that changed the rights of immigrants throughout our nation," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "Even as we debate immigration today, we should not lose the few sites that remain from Chavez's life‹we should preserve them and celebrate their history." Chavez, who lived in East San Jose's Sal Si Puedes neighborhood, co-founded the National Farm Worker's Association, becoming a renowned civil rights activist who led the movement to improve labor conditions for farm workers. It was at the former chapel where Chavez was introduced through his Catholic faith to the ideas of nonviolence, self sacrifice, and social justice by Father Donald McDonnell, for whom the building is named. The lawmakers credited this, saying it 'laid the foundation for his work' that made Chavez 'one of the most prominent civil rights leaders of the twentieth century.' The letter can be viewed by clicking here. In addition to Rep. Lofgren, it was signed by the following Members of Congress (in alphabetical order): Xavier Becerra, Julia Brownley, Lois Capps, Tony Cardenas, Judy Chu, Jim Costa, Susan Davis, Anna G. Eshoo, Sam Farr, John Garamendi, Janice Hahn, Mike Honda, Jared Huffman, Barbara Lee, Alan Lowenthal, George Miller, Grace Napolitano, Scott Peters, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Raul Ruiz, Brad Sherman, Eric Swalwell, Mike Thompson, Juan Vargas, and Henry Waxman. # # #
06.26.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- CA), chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, released the following statement reacting to the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on California's Proposition 8. The 2008 ballot measure limited marriage to a man and a woman. The Supreme Court today vacated a previous Ninth Circuit Court ruling, which in turn upheld the lower court's ruling declaring Prop 8 unconstitutional: "Today's ruling is welcome news for millions of loving and committed lesbian and gay couples in California, validating their right to marry," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Discrimination has no place in our society, and that includes the right to marry. Prop 8 is discriminatory and Californians are eager to move forward and allow same-sex couples the protection and recognition they deserve under marriage equality." # # #
06.26.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- CA) released the following statement reacting to the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). DOMA, enacted in 1996, bars federal recognition of same-sex marriages and restricts federal benefits for same-sex couples: "I welcome the Supreme Court's decision striking down DOMA as unconstitutional. Although today's ruling only applies to couples legally married under state law, it will be marked as a turning point forward in the civil rights movement towards marriage equality for all," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Not only was DOMA out of step with popular opinion, it institutionalized discrimination against lesbians and gays based purely on who they love. It's a shame the House GOP irresponsibly wasted millions of taxpayer dollars over the past few years to defend the bigotry engrained in DOMA." # # #
06.25.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), a senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee and House Committee on Administration, released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's ruling on the 1965 Voting Rights Act. The landmark law, renewed four times since enactment, most recently in 2006, protects voter's rights from intimidation or discrimination by requiring selected districts and states to gain federal preclearance before changing voting procedures or qualifications: "This decision is disappointing because the Supreme Court used the Voting Rights Act's success to justify striking this key section down, even as it acknowledged that voting discrimination still exists today," said Rep. Lofgren. "Every eligible citizen is entitled to their Constitutional right to vote free from artificial barriers or hurdles. It's a bedrock principle we reaffirmed through careful bipartisan work in the Judiciary Committee when Congress last renewed the Voting Rights Act in 2006. Congress now has a responsibility to take this matter up again, as the Court suggests it should, to ensure that spirit is reflected in the law so no one is disenfranchised from their fundamental right to vote." # # #
06.20.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), along with Reps. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY) and Jared Polis (D-CO), have introduced H.R. 2454, the Aaron's Law Act of 2013. Named in honor of the late Internet innovator and activist Aaron Swartz, the bipartisan legislation would reform the quarter-century old Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) to work for the digital age. Swartz's passing in January spotlighted serious problems with the vague wording of the CFAA. Among those concerns is how the law treats violations of terms of service, employer agreements, or website notices. "Reform of the CFAA is necessary," Rep. Lofgren said. "I hope this bipartisan bill will lead to the reforms that are needed for the good of the country." Aaron's Law refocuses the CFAA away from common computer and Internet activity and back towards targeting damaging hacks, as originally intended. By establishing a clear line that is needed in the law, it distinguishes the difference between common online activities and harmful attacks. Specifically the legislation: Establishes that mere breach of terms of service, employment agreements, or contracts are not automatic violations of the CFAA. By using legislative language based closely on recent important 9th and 4th Circuit Court opinions, the bill would instead define 'access without authorization' under the CFAA as gaining unauthorized access to information by circumventing technological or physical controls — such as password requirements, encryption, or locked office doors. Hack attacks such as phishing, injection of malware or keystroke loggers, denial-of-service attacks, and viruses would continue to be fully prosecutable under strong CFAA provisions this bill does not modify. Brings balance back to the CFAA by eliminating a redundant provision that enables an individual to be punished multiple times through duplicate charges for the same solitary violation. Eliminating the redundant provision streamlines the law, but would not create a gap in protection against hackers. Brings greater proportionality to CFAA penalties. Currently, the CFAA's penalties are tiered, and prosecutors have wide discretion to ratchet up the severity of the penalties in several circumstances, leaving little room for non-felony charges under CFAA (i.e., charges with penalties carrying less than a year in prison). The bill ensures prosecutors cannot seek to inflate sentences by stacking multiple charges under the CFAA, including state law equivalents or non-criminal violations of the law. The bill also has companion legislation introduced in the Senate by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR). Click here for the text of Aaron's Law. Click here for a detailed summary of the legislation. # # #
06.18.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) delivered the following statement during a mark-up of H.R. 2278, the "Strengthen and Fortify Enforcement Act" (The SAFE Act), in the House Judiciary Committee: Thank you Mr. Chairman. This bill must be opposed. It would turn millions of undocumented immigrants into criminals overnight. It would turn State and local law enforcement officers around the country into immigration agents. It would expand mandatory and prolonged detention. It would deny due process and judicial review. It ignores the problems of racial profiling and unlawful discrimination that are sure to result from the language in the bill. We had a similar bill eight years ago which I opposed for the same reasons. And, unfortunately, in some ways this bill is even worse. Last Thursday we had an at times contentious hearing about this bill. My colleagues and I pointed out that while the entire country is looking for solutions to our broken immigration system‹which must include a path to earned permanent legal residence for the undocumented‹this bill would instead turn those people into criminals. On Friday afternoon we received Chairman Goodlatte's proposed amendment to the bill. And rather than remedying this fatal flaw‹an approach that was soundly rejected 8 years ago‹the Chairman proposes to add yet another criminal penalty onto the backs of the undocumented. This penalty for "unlawful presence" comes directly from the bill eight years ago. So now undocumented immigrants in this country could face prosecution for two separate criminal offenses. One being alive in America. The country has considered and rejected mass deportation or self-deportation. And members of this Committee have admitted that is not realistic. So how can it make any more sense to imprison all of those people? And what comes after imprisonment? The bill doesn't say, but it certainly suggests that it would involve prolonged detention, no due process, and ultimately deportation. I need to focus on one other aspect of this bill: the decision to delegate immigration enforcement authorities to state and local officials and agencies without any checks at all. The bill does this in several different ways. And, taken together, the bill will endanger public safety, increase racial profiling, and infringe basic due process rights. This bill would allow every single State and locality to pass its own immigration laws. It's bad enough that the bill makes undocumented immigrants guilty of two Federal crimes. By allowing States and localities to pass similar criminal laws, the bill will make the situation infinitely worse. This bill also eviscerates the minimal protections against discrimination and abuse that currently exist in the 287(g) program. We know those protections don't work. The evidence of racial profiling and unlawful detentions and arrests in 287(g) jurisdictions is piling up. But instead of making the situation better out of respect for the Constitution, this bill does the very opposite. I have spent a good part of the last four years working with people on both sides of the aisle to find compromise on the immigration issue. I have had numerous conversations, one-on-one, with Republicans and Democrats alike. On the issue of immigration, at this time, I believe there are more areas of agreement than disagreement. But this bill does not reflect that common ground. I believe we agree that our immigration system is broken and that we need a solution that respects the rule of law and our common humanity. I believe we want to empower state and local law enforcement personnel to do their jobs, which means first and foremost keeping our communities safe. I believe we want to respect the Constitution and ensure that people are not deprived of liberty without due process or as a result of racial profiling or other forms of discrimination. However, and unfortunately, this bill simply fails to meet all of these shared goals. Instead, the bill takes us back in time to an approach that has long been rejected by the American people. I hope that the Committee's consideration of this bill is merely a bump in the road, because I believe that we've been making solid progress up to this point. This bill puts in doubt that shared belief that we can come together and solve the problem of our broken immigration system together on a bipartisan basis. None of us want to see proceedings in the House disrupted, but I understand why demonstrators were here this morning. This is very personal to families whose family members are threatened, and for people who live in fear and want to become Americans. I think if this bill were to become law, we would expect‹as we saw eight years ago‹millions of American citizens taking to the streets to demonstrate to protect members of their family and members of their community from the wrong things that this bill would incur. I will offer amendments to the bill, but frankly, I don't believe the bill can be corrected. And I am very sorry we are proceeding with the mark-up. # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's Statement and other interactions during the mark-up.
06.18.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives opposing H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act sponsored by Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) who claimed during a House Judiciary Committee hearing that "The incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy are very low." Rep. Lofgren was asked by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) to manage the minority's floor debate opposing the anti-women's health and reproductive rights bill: Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill. This will be the 10th vote we've had to restrict women's access to health care since Republicans took control of the House in 2011, and there are plenty of other things we should be doing. This bill imposes a nationwide 20-week abortion ban. It is unconstitutional, and it is dangerous to the health and safety of American women. The narrow health exception in H.R. 1797 — which only allows for abortions that are necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman — is shortsighted at best and cruel at worst. Many things can go wrong in pregnancy, and this bill would force a doctor to wait until a woman's condition was life-threatening before performing an abortion. Non life-threatening conditions couldn't be treated if this bill were law, which could result in permanent health problems for some women, including infertility. Severe or fatal conditions may also arise for the fetus later in a pregnancy, and if enacted into law, this bill would require some women to carry a fetus to term, even in a situation where that fetus has been diagnosed with a lethal medical condition — a heartbreaking scenario. The rape and incest exceptions are insulting and excessively narrow. The rape and incest exceptions that were added to the bill after the Committee's markup are just incredibly disappointing. They require reporting the crime to law enforcement prior to seeking care. It shows a distrust of women, and a lack of understanding of the reality of sexual assaults. Only 35 percent of women report sexual assaults, and there are many reasons that are complex, including fear of reprisal — 78% of rape victims know their offender — shame, and wanting to put the incident behind them. Also, this bill is unconstitutional. It's a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade when the Court held that prior to viability, abortions may be banned only if there are meaningful exceptions to protect a woman's life and health. And for over four decades, these principles have been upheld and this bill blatantly disregards them. Finally, I want to urge my colleagues to oppose this bill. It's an attack on women's health and on our Constitutional freedoms. It seeks to take important medical decisions out of the hands of women, their doctors, and their families, and instead entrust those decisions to Congress. It's a misguided effort. I oppose this bill, and I reserve the balance of my time. # # # Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's floor statement.
06.12.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Trent Franks (R-AZ) today introduced H.R. 2309, the Wireless Tax Fairness Act. This bipartisan, pro-consumer bill would place a 5-year moratorium on new taxes or fees for wireless services. On average, wireless customers pay 17.2% in taxes and fees, largely imposed on the state and municipal levels. Not only do rising wireless taxes hit a growing number of consumers, they also fall disproportionately on lower-income and working Americans who tend to rely more exclusively on wireless devices for telephone and Internet access and therefore pay a greater percentage of their income in wireless taxes. With wireless broadband access rapidly becoming a key platform for innovation, the legislation introduced today will help foster greater access and investment in this key market by halting discriminatory and increasingly onerous tax treatment. "Wireless connectivity is becoming the simplest and easiest route of choice to the Internet, but instead of encouraging that we're burdening it with taxes," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "This bill is needed to hit the pause button and stop these arbitrary taxes from increasing. By doing so, we'll bring needed stability to the wireless marketplace for customers to choose their services based on merit and need so we can see these platforms of innovation and job growth expand." The average 17.2% in taxes and fees wireless customers now pay is more than twice the average rate of 7.4% on other goods and services. In many localities, this cumulative tax burden is even higher: 26.8% in Baltimore, 19.9% in Omaha, 18.2% in Tallahassee, and 20.4% in New York City. The Wireless Tax Fairness Act would halt this trend by imposing a temporary, five-year freeze on new taxes that are imposed only on wireless services. Importantly, the legislation does not take away any existing revenue from state or local governments, it simply pauses taxes and fees at the current rate. The legislation, which can be viewed by clicking here, is backed by 145 cosponsors as of its introduction, signaling the strong bipartisan support for the measure. Similar legislation introduced in the previous Congress was passed overwhelmingly by the U.S. House of Representatives in November, 2011. # # #
05.16.2013	Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI), joined by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), and Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), today introduced legislation to prevent federal agencies from seizing Americans' telephone records without a court order. H.R. 2014, the Telephone Records Protection Act, requires court approval when the government demands telephone records from service providers. Current law allows the government to subpoena such records unilaterally, without any judicial review. The Department of Justice likely used its administrative subpoena authority to seize the Associated Press's telephone records in its recent investigation of a CIA leak. "The Justice Department's seizure of the AP's phone records‹likely without the sign-off of a single judge‹raises serious First and Fourth Amendment concerns. Regardless of whether DOJ violates the legitimate privacy expectations of reporters or ordinary Americans, we deserve to know that the federal government can't seize our records without judicial review," said Rep. Amash. "Americans' phone records deserve greater protection from the government than a mere subpoena," Rep. Lofgren said. "The lack of discretion of the Department of Justice with regard to the Associated Press has demonstrated weaknesses in our surveillance laws that impair the First Amendment. This bill takes necessary, but reasonable corrective action to strengthen the privacy of Americans' phone records from the government." "I was honestly surprised to learn that the government could get this sort of private, personal information without a court order. If that is indeed the law, as the Department of Justice insists that it is, then the law needs to change," said Rep. Mulvaney. "I am more than willing to acknowledge that there may be times that the government needs access to this sort of information. That being said, if the case in favor of acquiring this information is so compelling, it seems a requirement that the government get a court order should be no impediment to the conduct of a valid government investigation." Rep. Polis said, "Americans of all political stripes were shocked to find out that the Department of Justice had been accessing telephone records of reporters at the Associated Press. The Department of Justice claims that they operated within the confines of the law, which makes it abundantly clear that we need to provide a higher level of protection against government intrusion into an individual's private records. I am excited to be working with Representatives Amash, Lofgren, and Mulvaney on this important privacy protection bill." 18 U.S.C. _ 2703 allows the government to demand that electronic communication services such as telephone companies turn over basic subscriber information with an administrative subpoena. Basic subscriber information includes the name, address, telephone records, credit card number, and other information related to a customer's service. The Telephone Records Protection Act strikes 18 U.S.C. _ 2703(c)(2)(C), which includes telephone records on the list of basic subscriber information that can be accessed by administrative subpoena. If enacted, the bill would require the government to state "specific and articulable facts" that prove to a court that the information sought is "relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation." ###
05.16.2013	Today, Committee on House Administration Ranking Member, Robert Brady (D-PA), along with Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Representative Juan Vargas (D-CA) introduced H.R.2017, a bill to reform and reauthorize the Election Assistance Commission (EAC). The EAC was created in the aftermath of the disastrous elections of 2000 as part of the Help America Vote Act. The agency is designed to assist state and local election officials to ensure smooth, accurate, and fair elections. Congressional Republicans have undermined the agency by holding up nominations and attempting to abolish the agency. The result of their assault on the EAC was seen in the unreasonably long lines, confusion, and disenfranchisement of thousands in the 2012 election. "There's no magic solution when it comes to fixing how our elections are run," said Brady. "Improving election administration has to be an ongoing effort, and the EAC is the only Federal agency equipped to assist our overworked and under-appreciated local election officials. We saw what happens when the EAC's assistance is pulled in the last election. We owe it to the American people to not let that happen again." "Democracy is a participatory process, and in order for it to work, we need a fair, transparent election system that lets all Americans easily engage in that process," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "The EAC, created after the debacle of the 2000 presidential election, can help election officials ensure the integrity of federal elections and improve voter access at the polls." "The Election Assistance Commission is a much needed agency that assists local election officials in running effective and transparent elections; ensuring American voters' voices are heard," said Rep. Vargas. "This bill would reduce costs, add new accountability measures, and protect our fundamental right as citizens to vote in an efficient manner." The proposal goes beyond a simple reauthorization, making substantive improvements and rectifying the problems seen in 2012. H.R. 2017 reduces agency costs, and requires a cost-effectiveness study. It improves elections by soliciting feedback from local election officials, allowing commissioners to better track problems and target assistance. It improves access to polls for voters with disabilities, and it improves transparency by preventing manufacturers from paying for the audits of their own machines. # # #
05.09.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Jared Polis (D-CO) announced they have introduced H.R. 1892, the Unlocking Technology Act of 2013. The bipartisan bill would permanently guarantee consumers can unlock their cell phones, tablets, and other mobile communications devices in order to switch carriers. The bill gives consumers new avenues to unlock their devices and media under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) in ways that do not infringe on copyright. "This bill reflects the way we use this technology in our everyday lives," Rep. Lofgren said. "Americans should not be subject to fines and criminal liability for merely unlocking devices and media they legally purchased. If consumers are not violating copyright or some other law, there's little reason to hold back the benefits of unlocking so people can continue using their devices." "Everyone should be free to use their personal property as they see fit and choose their preferred technologies without penalty," said Rep. Massie. "This bill rolls back excessive and out-dated prohibitions on otherwise lawful innovations that promote marketplace competition. I look forward to advancing this bipartisan effort with Reps. Lofgren, Polis, and Eshoo." "Consumers who are not under contract should be able to unlock their cell phones or tablets," Rep. Polis said. "We should not have laws on the books that prohibit consumer choice and stifle competition in the marketplace. I am pleased to introduce this bill with Representatives Lofgren, Massie, and Eshoo which will permanently restore consumers' freedom to switch wireless carriers." Currently, Section 1201 of the DMCA forbids sidestepping technical measures that prevent modifying copyrighted works — such as jailbreaking a tablet to run 3rd-party apps, going around digital rights management for archiving or disability access purposes, or unlocking a cell phone — regardless of whether there is any actual copyright infringement. The Unlocking Technology Act would make it permanently legal for consumers to unlock their mobile devices, and consumers would not be required to obtain permission from their carrier before switching to a new carrier. In addition, the bill would permit the use and sale of tools — like software apps — that enable unlocking for uses that do not infringe on copyright. The President would also be required to ensure that international trade agreements reflected the changes in the Act. Under the DMCA, the Copyright Office can add restrictions or remove exemptions under Section 1201 every three years. The Copyright Office created an exemption for cell phone unlocking in 2010, and then took it away again in 2013, making cell phone unlocking illegal once more. Most proposals currently before Congress merely extend the prior cell phone unlocking exemption for another three years, meaning the Copyright Office will have to determine whether to renew the exemption in another three years. The Unlocking Technology Act would make the exemption for cell phones permanent. Click here for a section-by-section summary of H.R. 1892, the Unlocking Technology Act. # # #
05.09.2013	Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), along with Senators Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI) and Roger Wicker (R-MS), introduced bipartisan companion legislation in the House of Representatives and Senate today that promotes science education and celebrates scientific achievement by establishing an official Science Laureate of the United States. The Science Laureate would be a nationally renowned expert in their field who would travel around the country to inspire future scientists. This new honorary position would be appointed by the President from nominees recommended by the National Academy of Sciences and serve for a term of 1-2 years. Using this national platform, the Science Laureate would be empowered to speak to Americans on the importance of science broadly and scientific issues of the day. Like the Poet Laureate, the Science Laureate would be an unpaid, honorary post. The scientist would also be encouraged to continue their important scientific work. "Scientists like Albert Einstein or Sally Ride can capture the public's attention and inspire Americans if they are given a platform to speak from," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "As our society becomes ever more technical, a role model for how important scientific advancement is for our nation's future will help us. The Science Laureate can serve that role, as an accomplished individual to engage Americans on the importance of science in our lives and who can encourage our students to be the innovators of tomorrow." "Scientific discovery fuels the innovation that keeps our economy strong," said Chairman Smith. "I am happy to be an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that for the first time creates a national spokesman for science. An effective Science Laureate will not only be an accomplished scientist, but a role model who inspires students to pursue advanced degrees in science, math and engineering. To remain the world leader in a high-tech global marketplace, we must continue to inspire the innovators of tomorrow." "Getting students and Americans of all ages excited about science, technology, engineering, and math won't just help kids learn — it's imperative to our ability to compete in the global economy," Senator Mazie K. Hirono said. "As American students trail their international peers in STEM proficiency, the U.S. Science Laureate will be a national role model who can encourage students to learn more about the sciences. By elevating great American scientific communicators, we can empower students — especially girls and minorities — to get excited about science." "Recent studies have indicated that Americans are falling behind other countries in math and science," said Senator Roger Wicker, co-chair of the Senate STEM Education and Workforce Caucus. "These results call for an urgent need to improve science, technology, engineering, and math education. If the United States is to be economically competitive and continue to innovate and create jobs, we must place a greater emphasis on STEM education. Establishing an official Science Laureate is an important first step in prioritizing science in America." The legislation has received support of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the world's largest general scientific society, the STEM Education Coalition, the American Chemical Society and the Hands-On Science Partnership. "Establishing honorary U.S. Science Laureates would send a clear message to young people about the value of science and technology in our society, and the importance of scientific research to both economic progress and our quality of life," said Alan I. Leshner Chief Executive Officer of the AAAS and Executive Publisher of Science. "STEM education is closely linked with our nation's economic prosperity in the modern global economy and strong STEM skills are a central element of a well-rounded education," said James Brown, Executive Director of the STEM Education Coalition. "We commend this effort to recognize and elevate American scientists, educators, and innovators as national role models. That so many members of Congress from both parties have come together to back this bill to elevate STEM education speaks volumes about the importance of this issue to our nation's future." Original House cosponsors of H.R. 1891 include Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), ranking member of the House Science Committee, and, in alphabetical order: Reps. Ami Bera (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Marc A. Veasey (D-TX), and Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL). Original Senate cosponsors include Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Patty Murray (D-WA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY), Tom Udall (D-NM) and John Boozman (R-AR). # # #
05.01.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the Chair of the 38 Member California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), released the following statement in response to President Obama's nomination of Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC) to be the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA): "On behalf of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, I applaud President Obama's nomination of Congressman Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Mel's experience in Congress over the last twenty years and as a senior member of the Financial Services and Judiciary Committees will serve the FHFA and the American people well. Mel has a proven record of working in a bipartisan fashion to strengthen and grow our economy. In Congress, he has worked tirelessly to protect consumers from fraud and to expand affordable housing for hard working families. "Mel Watt is the kind of thoughtful and independent thinking leader Congress envisioned at the helm of the FHFA. Without that kind of leadership in this key agency, housing markets did not rebound as quickly, and in California alone 83,000 homes were foreclosed last month. That is why we need a strong leader at the FHFA with the policy expertise and willingness to work for middle class Americans to help our economy. We hope the Senate confirms Mel Watt's nomination quickly so responsible families can stay in their homes, rebuild our communities, and return our economy to prosperity." The CDCD, the largest state delegation in Congress, has worked tirelessly since the economic downturn to address the housing and foreclosure crisis. # # #
04.30.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), released the following statement commemorating Black April Day, traditionally observed by the Vietnamese American community on April 30th, referring to the Fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975, as the day the South Vietnamese government fell to the North Vietnamese communist regime: "Today I join others around the world in commemorating the 38th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon. Even today as a vibrant Vietnamese-American community contributes to our society, our economy, and our culture, they have not forgotten this day's significance. Thirty-eight years later, the Vietnamese government ranks alongside other dubious regimes such as Iran, North Korea, and Sudan in oppressing its people and violating basic human rights. This is why I have re-introduced the FREE Vietnam Act, tying coveted trade preferences to Vietnam improving the human rights of its citizens. Like the Vietnamese-Americans in my community, I will continue to press Vietnam to improve their human rights record." # # #
04.26.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) has introduced the Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement in Vietnam ("FREE Vietnam") Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by five Members of Congress that would bar Vietnam from enjoying special U.S. trade preferences until the country's communist government takes serious measures to curb human rights abuses. Despite consistent pressure from Congress and human rights organizations, the Vietnamese government continues to violate its international human rights obligations, even those rights granted under its very own constitution. H.R. 1682, the FREE Vietnam Act, prohibits Vietnam from participating in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program as long as it continues to engage in repressive behavior, denying basic human freedoms to individuals in Vietnam. "The Vietnamese government continues to oppress its own people, continues to arrest and harass peaceful advocates for democracy, and evens allows its citizens to fall prey to human trafficking," said Rep. Lofgren. "By tying coveted trade preferences to improving human rights for its citizens, the FREE Vietnam Act gives us a tool to send a strong message to the Vietnamese government that continued human rights violations will not be tolerated." A similar bill was introduced by Rep. Lofgren in the 112th Congress. As introduced, the bill's original co-sponsors include Reps. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Susan Davis (D-CA) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA). ###
04.23.2013	Today, Senate Judiciary Committee members Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and House Judiciary Committee members Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced the Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade and Sales Act of 2013 (PARTS), a bipartisan bill which would expand consumer choice for automobile collision repair parts, cut costs paid by insurers and drivers, and ensure competition in the automobile repair parts market. The PARTS Act amends U.S. design patent law to reduce the exclusivity period car companies hold on design patents for collision repair parts from 14 years to 30 months (or two-and-a-half years) during which time other suppliers could test, research and develop parts on a not-for-sale basis. The current 14-year design patent monopoly prevents aftermarket manufacturers from making or selling external collision repair parts, driving up costs by limiting consumer choice, crowding out competition leading to higher insurance rates and fees. "This bipartisan bill is aimed at helping Americans who depend on their cars to be safe, reliable and on the road so they can get their kids to school and drive to work every day," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "By increasing fair competition in the auto parts market, consumers will ultimately benefit by getting the best value for their dollar when they need to shop for safe, high quality replacement car parts to keep their cars running." "The decision to purchase an automobile is one of the biggest investments a family makes," Rep. Darrell Issa said. "With the average sticker price of a new car now exceeding $30,000 and repair costs continuing to rise, hardworking American families deserve access to as many repair part options as possible. The PARTS Act will not only increase consumer choice therefore reducing aftermarket costs but encourage innovation and competition among other aftermarket parts manufacturers." The PARTS Act, introduced today, mirrors legislation introduced by Reps. Zoe Lofgren and Darrell Issa in the 112th Congress. It would take effect 90 days after enactment and apply to design patents issued prior to, on, and after the date of enactment. Click here to read the full bill text of PARTS Act. ###
04.17.2013	A bipartisan group of eight Members from the U.S. House of Representatives released the following statement today regarding their efforts for comprehensive reform of the U.S. immigration system: "Americans want to see the nation's broken immigration system fixed, and they know it will take bipartisanship to solve this problem in a sensible and rational way. This week, a bipartisan group of Senators stepped forward to introduce their proposal, and we applaud their effort. We are also working on a good faith, bipartisan effort in the House. We believe we will soon agree on a reasonable, common-sense plan to finally secure our borders and strengthen our economy with a tough but fair process that respects the rule of law for immigrants to fully contribute to our country. While we have made substantial progress, we continue to work diligently towards a bill that keeps America strong, competitive and true to our values." ‹ Reps. Xavier Becerra (CA), John Carter (TX), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL), Luis Gutierrez (IL), Sam Johnson (TX), Raul Labrador (ID), Zoe Lofgren (CA), and John Yarmuth (KY) # # #
03.21.2013	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced companion legislation in the Senate and House of Representatives Thursday that would improve the Nation's immigration laws to ensure the longstanding American tradition of protecting refugees and asylum seekers fleeing persecution in their home countries. The Refugee Protection Act responds to shortfalls in current immigration law by repealing some of the most harsh, inefficient and unnecessary hurdles facing refugees and asylum seekers. The bill, which mirrors legislation Lofgren and Leahy have advanced previously in recent years, reaffirms the commitments made in ratifying the 1951 Refugee Convention, and will help to restore the United States to its rightful role as a safe and welcoming home for those suffering from persecution around the world. The Senate bill is cosponsored by Senators Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Mazie Hirono (Hawaii) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.). The House bill is cosponsored by Reps. John Conyers (D-Mich.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), Jared Polis (D-Co.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.). "Americans have long been a compassionate people, offering a safe harbor to victims of devastating calamities and survivors of tortuous, brutal regimes," Rep. Lofgren said. "The legislation we're introducing today not only continues that proud tradition, it makes several needed improvements to ensure we can help those seeking freedom from persecution and oppression abroad." "The Senate will soon turn to comprehensive immigration reform and the changes to the refugee system contained in this bill are a critical component of fixing our broken immigration system," said Leahy, who noted that Vermont has welcomed many refugees and asylum seekers. "As we address the many complex issues that face our immigration system, we must ensure that America upholds its longstanding commitment to refugee protection." The Refugee Protection Act will improve protections for refugees and asylum seekers, and make important reforms to the expedited removal process for asylum seekers pursuing their claims before the Asylum Office of the Department of Homeland Security. The legislation requires the immigration detention system to adhere to basic humane treatment for asylum seekers and others with access to counsel, religious practice, and visits from family. The bill also strengthens the law so those with actual ties to terrorist activities will continue to be denied entry to the United States, and it protects innocent asylum seekers and refugees from being unfairly denied protection as a result of overly broad terrorism bars that, over time, have inadvertently had the effect of sweeping in those who were actually victimized by terrorists. # # #
03.15.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today on the 2013 James Madison Award honoree, the late Internet activist Aaron Swartz. Rep. Lofgren, who was unable to attend the ceremony, was honored last year with the 2012 James Madison Award for her efforts against the Stop Online Piracy Act, and for her efforts to increase public access to federal research: "My apologies for not being able to be with you all today to pay tribute to a young man who was an outspoken advocate for the public's "right to know" — and whose voice was silenced, tragically, too soon. It was a great honor to accept the 2012 James Madison Award last year and I had looked forward to participating in today's ceremony honoring Aaron Swartz. "Aaron knew how important the Internet is as a platform for open communication and access to information. "From an early age, Aaron made significant contributions to free speech and technology. As a brilliant prodigy he helped develop the web feed format RSS, the Creative Commons, and the social news and information site Reddit. Each of these achievements was geared toward making information easily available to anyone that wants it. "Those achievements helped drive him to protect and promote the public's "right to know." He founded the group Demand Progress as a vehicle for his activism in favor of online free expression and against censorship of the Internet. This activism was crucial in the fight to stop SOPA. "Aaron worked to break down barriers to the public's "right to know." It was Aaron who opened up the complete bibliographic data for books held by the Library of Congress, making this information free on the Open Library. "He did the same with PACER, a federal court website that charges the public to access court records — all of which are public records, and free of copyright. To Aaron, the PACER action was a civil act to alert the public, and pressure the government, about the growing problem of restricting open access to public information. "When I read about Aaron's passing, and as the details of the prosecution against him became more publically known, I was outraged. It made me think about Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and his time in a Birmingham jail. When you commit an act of civil disobedience, you do so with the knowledge that you could be punished. In Dr. King's case, it was eleven days in jail. Aaron faced thirteen felony charges with the possibility of thirty-five years in prison. "It's appropriate we honor Aaron today with the 2013 James Madison Award. We should also recommit ourselves to a bedrock principle that goes back to our country's founding: that society has an interest in the free flow of ideas, information and commerce. That is why we have a free press, a nationwide postal system, public libraries, and publically supported educational opportunities that are meant to be ever-expanding and accessible. "The public domain has always been a vital source for creativity and innovation, and with the advent of the Internet, it is now more important than ever. The free flow of information and ideas is at the core of American ingenuity, and the emergence of digital technology empowers more and more of us to become creators in our own right. "By protecting and advancing the free flow of information, we can nurture opportunity and maximize the progress of science, the furthering of discovery, and the growth of the American economy. Thank you for honoring the work of this brilliant and passionate advocate. And thank you all for the work you do to ensure and advance the freedom of information in our society." # # #
03.06.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Ted Poe (R-TX) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) today introduced bipartisan legislation modernizing the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA). Consumers and businesses are increasingly using cloud computing and location-based services, but the law has failed to keep pace with technology – leading to weak and convoluted privacy protections from government access to user data. The bill, H.R. 983, the Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act, would strengthen the privacy of Internet users and wireless subscribers from overbroad government surveillance by requiring the government to get a warrant based on probable cause before intercepting or forcing the disclosure of electronics communications and geolocation data. "Fourth Amendment protections don't stop at the Internet. Americans expect Constitutional protections to extend to their online communications and location data," Rep. Lofgren said. "Establishing a warrant standard for government access to cloud and geolocation provides Americans with the privacy protections they expect, and would enable service providers to foster greater trust with their users and international trading partners." "As technology continues to evolve and improve, Congress must ensure that the Fourth Amendment rights of our citizens are protected. We live in a much different world than 1986," Rep. Poe said. "It's time for Washington to modernize this outdated legislation to catch up with the times. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." "In the past decade, advances in technology and the Internet have dramatically changed the way we communicate, live and work – and in this constantly evolving world, Congress must be a good steward of policy to ensure our laws keep up," said Rep. DelBene. "When current law affords more protections for a letter in a filing cabinet than an email on a server, it's clear our policies are outdated. This bill will update privacy protections for consumers while resolving competing interests between innovation, international competitiveness, and public safety." Rep. Lofgren's Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act would apply Constitutional privacy guarantees under the Fourth Amendment to an individual's digital communications and location data while minimizing the impact on law enforcement investigations. The bill would: Require the government to obtain a warrant to access to wire or electronic communications content; Require the government to obtain a warrant to intercept or force service providers to disclose geolocation data; Preserve exceptions for emergency situations, foreign intelligence surveillance, individual consent, public information, and emergency assistance; Prohibit service providers from disclosing a user's geolocation information to the government in the absence of a warrant or exception; Prohibit the use of unlawfully obtained geolocation information as evidence; Provide for administrative discipline and a civil cause of action if geolocation information is unlawfully intercepted or disclosed. The legislation modifies ECPA, a law that sets legal standards that law enforcement agencies must meet to access electronic communications, such as social networking messages or email to/from information. However, ECPA was enacted nearly three decades ago, well before modern online services became mainstream, and its standards do not reflect the way these services are used today. As currently written, ECPA does not clearly require law enforcement to obtain a warrant to access the content of Americans' online communication – instead, ECPA permits law enforcement to use a mere subpoena if the content is more than 180 days old. ECPA also fails to include any clear standards for law enforcement access to location information, such as tracking an individual's cell phone location. The unclear and complex standards have led to confusion in U.S. courts, a significant compliance burden for businesses, a competitive disadvantage with international businesses in countries with stronger laws against government access, and inadequate privacy from government for Americans. Rep. Lofgren introduced an earlier version of the Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act last year with her ECPA 2.0 Act, and promised to reintroduce similar legislation in the 113th Congress as part of her Internet Freedom legislative agenda. Click here for a section-by-section summary of the Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act. # # #
03.05.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced the introduction of H.R. 889, The Global Free Internet Act. The bill is designed to preserve the structural foundation of the Internet, grow Internet commerce, and protect the free expression and privacy of Internet users. The bill also creates a specific task force within the government to ensure the path for Internet-related expression, innovation and economic growth remains clear. Today, actions by foreign governments, international bodies, and the U.S. government itself sometimes create risks to the global free flow of information, international trade in Internet-related goods and services, and the technical standards that underpin the Internet. Some of these risks include censorship of online content, country-specific technology standards that would make it difficult for computers to communicate with each other, and burdensome requirements for market access. "The Internet has been such a spectacular success because it lowers barriers and empowers people to connect and share information, resulting in greater cultural exchange and economic growth," Rep. Lofgren said. "For the Internet to remain a platform for innovation and prosperity, we need to address undue restrictions on Internet commerce and the global free flow of information." Rep. Lofgren introduced an earlier version of the Global Free Internet Act in 2012, and promised to reintroduce the bill in the 113th Congress as part of her Internet Freedom legislative agenda. The Global Free Internet Act would create a Task Force on the Global Internet that identifies, prioritizes, and develops a response to policies and practices of the U.S. government, foreign governments, or international bodies that deny fair market access to Internet-related goods and services, or that threaten the technical operation, security, and free flow of global Internet communications. Members of the Task Force include the heads of several executive branch agencies, four U.S. persons nominated by Congressional leadership, and four U.S. persons who are not government employees nominated by the Internet itself. The Task Force would hold public hearings, issue reports, and coordinate the activity of the U.S. government to respond to domestic and international threats to the Internet. Reps. Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Mike Honda (D-Campbell), and Doris Matsui (D-Sacramento) joined Rep. Lofgren in introducing the bill as original cosponsors. Click here for a section-by-section summary of the Global Free Internet Act. # # #
02.28.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today released the following statement after voting for the bipartisan Senate version of the 1994 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization, which passed the House by a vote of 286-138. Last year Rep. Lofgren was one of the House Democratic leaders who spoke against Republican attempts to roll back VAWA's protections for women, calling for a stronger reauthorization of the law: "Last year I called on my colleagues in the House to pass the Senate's bill that was consistent with the bipartisan history of VAWA, in contrast to the Republican House bill, that was a step backwards. Today I was happy to stand up for victims of domestic violence and vote to send this law to the President's desk. At long last we will put these vital protections back in place, further protecting women and extending the law's protections for LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims." # # #
02.15.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) have introduced legislation, H.R. 637, The Preserving American Privacy Act, to establish due process protections for Americans against government-operated unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in U.S. airspace. The bipartisan legislation would also forbid law enforcement and private UAS from being armed with firearms or explosives while operating within U.S. airspace. "The expanded use of drones on U.S. soil raises serious Constitutional and civil liberties issues that Congress needs to address," Rep. Lofgren said. "These devices should be used in a safe, open, and responsible manner. This bill would ensure that drones follow strict guidelines to protect Americans' privacy while still realizing their practical applications for science, border security, public safety, and commercial development." "As we enter this uncharted world of drone technology, Congress must be proactive and establish boundaries for drone use that safeguard the Constitutional rights of Americans," Rep. Poe said. "Individuals are rightfully concerned that these new eyes in the sky may threaten their privacy. It is the obligation of Congress to ensure that this does not happen. Just because Big Brother can look into someone's backyard doesn't mean it should. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." Specific provisions governing the use of UAS in the Preserving American Privacy Act include: Government-operated UAS must obtain a warrant to collect information that can identify individuals in a private area; Government-operated UAS must obtain a court order and provide public notice beforehand to collect information that can identify individuals in defined public areas; The warrant and court order requirements are subject to exceptions for emergencies, border security, and consent; Private UAS cannot capture visual images or sound recordings of individuals engaging in personal activities in certain circumstances in which the individual has a reasonable expectation of privacy; State laws on the use of UAS in the airspace of the state are not preempted; Private and law enforcement UAS cannot use or operate UAS equipped with firearms or explosives in U.S. airspace. Click here for a section-by-section of the bill. # # #
02.15.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced she is supporting a resolution in Congress calling on the U.S. Postal Service to continue its 6-day mail delivery service. The bipartisan resolution is in response to a decision by U.S. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe, announced on February 6th, saying the postal service would discontinue Saturday mail deliveries starting this summer in August. "Even with the advent of new communications technologies, a strong U.S. mail service is a key service for both families and businesses," Rep. Lofgren said. "Families rely on the postal service to receive everything from social security checks to medicine, and businesses count on a competent mail system to move goods where they are needed. Shrinking the services Americans count on is not the balanced approach needed to ensure our postal system runs competitively and remains a tool to grow our economy." The resolution, H.Res. 30, has the backing of more than 82 bipartisan Members of Congress. # # #
02.14.2013	U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), and Kevin Yoder (R-KS) today introduced legislation to increase the openness, transparency, and accessibility of publicly funded research results. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act (FASTR) would require federal agencies with annual extramural research budgets of $100 million or more to provide the public with online access to research manuscripts stemming from funded research no later than six months after publication in a peer-reviewed journal. "Everyday American taxpayer dollars are supporting researchers and scientists hard at work, when this information is shared, it can be used as a building block for future discoveries," said Representative Lofgren. "Greater public access can accelerate breakthroughs, where robust collaborative research can lead to faster commercialization and immense benefits for the public and our economy." "This bill will give the American people greater access to the important scientific research results they've paid for," Congressman Doyle said today."Supporting greater collaboration among researchers in the sciences will accelerate scientific innovation and discovery, while giving the public a greater return on their scientific investment." "The scientific research community benefits when they are able to share important research and cooperate across scientific fields. Likewise, taxpayers should not be required to pay twice for federally-funded research," said Congressman Yoder. "This legislation is common sense, and promotes more transparency, accountability, and cooperation within the scientific research community." Specifically, the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act would: Ç Require federal departments and agencies with an annual extramural research budget of $100 million or more, whether funded totally or partially by a government department or agency, to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Ç Ensure that the manuscript is preserved in a stable digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation. Ç Require that each taxpayer-funded manuscript be made available to the public online and without cost, no later than six months after the article has been published in a peer-reviewed journal. Ç Require agencies to examine whether introducing open licensing options for research papers they make publicly available as a result of the public access policy would promote productive reuse and computational analysis of those research papers. An identical Senate counterpart of this legislation is also being introduced today by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). "FASTR represents a giant step forward in making sure that the crucial information contained in these articles can be freely accessed and fully used by all members of the public," said Heather Joseph, Executive Director of the Scholarly Publishing Academic Research Coalition (SPARC). "It has the potential to truly revolutionize the scientific research process." This legislation would unlock unclassified research funded by agencies like the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Science Foundation. The bill builds on the success of the first U.S. mandate for public access to the published results of publicly funded research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2008, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) implemented their public access policy. It is estimated that approximately 80,000 papers are published each year from NIH funds. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act echoes the interest in public access policies expressed by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, which has examined the mechanisms that would leverage federal investments in scientific research and increase access to information that promises to stimulate scientific and technological innovation and competitiveness. Click here to read the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act. ###
02.13.2013	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $3.39 million in grant funding to the Mineta National Transportation Research Consortium (MNTRC), a San Jose State University-led consortium engaged in advancing public transportation research, education, workforce development and technology transfers. This is the second year the consortium is receiving the funding, having been awarded an initial $3.49 million in grant funding last January to find real world solutions to transit challenges. "We need public transit systems that meet the needs of communities like ours in San Jose if we are going to grow our economy," Rep. Lofgren said. "Investments like this can pave the way by harnessing the know-how needed for better transit systems that move people more efficiently, protect the environment, and help boost the economy." The funding allows the MNTRC, a diverse group of nine universities led by San Jose State University, to leverage their research and expertise in areas such as alternative fuels, safety and security, finance, livable communities, environmental sustainability and economic competitiveness. # # #
02.05.2013	Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, delivered the following statement during a House Judiciary Committee hearing entitled "America's Immigration System: Opportunities for Legal Immigration and Enforcement of Laws Against Illegla Immigration": "I [also] congratulate Mr. Goodlatte for his new chairmanship, as well as Chairman Gowdy and the other subcommittee chairmen. I look forward to working with them this Congress as we tackle the nation's problems. "I also congratulate the Chairman on focusing the Committee's first hearing on our broken immigration system. I appreciate that gesture, as I do his recent public statements that he is open to reform and that America does not need "a trail of tears" to the border. The same goes for Chairman Gowdy's recent statements on the need to find a balance between respect for the rule of law and our morality and humanity. "I truly appreciate these statements, and they have my commitment to work with them in a bipartisan manner on reform efforts. "But as we move forward, we must recognize that our broken system does immeasurable harm every day that it goes unreformed. A "trail of tears to the border" is not that far off from the system we currently have. Every day, our system tears families apart‹husbands from their wives, parents from their children. If we want a moral and humane system, we have a lot of work to do. "America is ready for us to do that work. "I have participated in the immigration debate during my 18 years in Congress and, long before that, as an immigration attorney and law professor teaching immigration law. Today the country is past the point of debating whether we need reform. They are simply counting on us to get it done. "And the growing bipartisan consensus means we can get it done. Conservative leaders from Jeb Bush and Karl Rove to Sean Hannity and Bill O'Reilly have signaled support for comprehensive reform efforts, including a path for undocumented immigrants. Even Rush Limbaugh told Senator Marco Rubio that his efforts for immigration reform are "admirable and noteworthy" and "recognize reality." "We have also seen Members in both parties in the House and Senate voice strong support for immigration reform. We know of the bipartisan blueprint for immigration reform released last week by 8 Senators, and there are similar bipartisan discussions in the House. It will take such bipartisanship to solve this problem, and I am hopeful that this is the year we finally enact top-to-bottom reform of our immigration laws. "As we will hear today, our current system is dysfunctional in many ways, keeping families apart for decades and hindering economic growth and American global competitiveness. Designing a sensible legal immigration system is critical to preserving the rule of law. We need a legal immigration system that works so that workers and families who want to come here are able to go through that system, rather than around it. "Yet despite the incredible need to reform the system, all we have done is enforce the heck out of it, especially over the last several years. We are now removing record numbers of undocumented immigrants each year, while attempted border crossings are at their lowest levels in more than 40 years. According to experts, net migration from Mexico is now zero and likely lower than that. Every year, we spend more money on immigration enforcement‹nearly $18 billion per year‹than on all other federal law enforcement combined. "All of this enforcement has not solved the problem, and it should not be used to delay top-to-bottom reform of our laws. "What needs to be done is not that complicated. We know a reform bill must include additional border enforcement, as well as an employment eligibility verification system to secure the workplace. We need to reform our employment visa system so that tech companies, farmers and other U.S. businesses have access to needed workers, while reforming the family system to help keep families together. And we need to provide a way for 11 million undocumented immigrants to come out of the shadows and get right with the law in a way that that is fair and practical. "A few words of caution: First, partial legalization, as some are suggesting, is a dangerous path, and we need only look at France and Germany to see how unwise it is to create a permanent underclass. What makes America special is that people come here, assimilate, and become fully American‹with all of the rights and responsibilities that citizenship bestows. With the exception of slavery and the Chinese Exclusion Act, our laws have never barred persons from becoming citizens‹and we should not start now. "Second, we must not fall into the trap of those calling for "piece meal" reform. As Governor Jeb Bush recently wrote in the Wall Street Journal: "Congress should avoid such quick fixes and commit itself instead to comprehensive immigration reform." Immigration, as he points out, is a system, and it needs systemic overhaul. "Finally, we must make it easier to keep critical workers who can keep America competitive and grow our economy, but we should not do so by closing the door on family-based immigrants. Family unity has been the bedrock of our immigration system since the Immigration and Nationality Act was first enacted in 1952. In addition to strengthening American families, family-based immigration plays an important role in bolstering our economy. "Research shows that immigrants, most of whom come here through the family system, are twice as likely to start businesses in the U.S. as the native-born. And immigrant businesses, including small non-tech businesses, have grown at 2.5 times the national average. I often say I am glad that Google is in Mountain View rather than Moscow. "Like eBay, Intel and Yahoo!, Google was founded by an immigrant. But it's worth noting that none of the founders of these companies came to the U.S. because of their skills. Sergey Brin, Jerry Yang, Andy Grove, and Pierre Omidyar all came here through our family-based system or because they were refugees or the children of refugees. "What made these founders special were the traits they share with immigrants of all kinds: entrepreneurism, risk taking, and a desire for a better life. These are among the most admired values in our country‹as it should be, because it is the secret sauce that makes America great. "From Alexander Hamilton to Andrew Carnegie to Albert Einstein, we are a nation forged by immigrants. It's time we fully embrace that immigration is good for our country. It's time we do our part to devise a way for the people who have enough 'get up and go to get up and go' to come to our shores and bring their talents and contributions to our society and to our economy." # # #
01.29.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, released the following statement today on President Barrack Obama's call for comprehensive immigration reform during a speech in Las Vegas, Nev.: "Today I heard the President call for our country to take up the great work of comprehensive immigration reform. He voiced his full support for many of the principles I have worked to advance my entire life both as a Member of Congress and before that as a young immigration lawyer. Like the President, I believe we have an historic opportunity to fix the nation's broken immigration system from top to bottom in a bipartisan fashion so it works for families and our economy. "I've never forgotten my immigrant roots. My grandfather immigrated to America from Sweden, walking off the boat early in the 20th century with little more than a strong desire to make a better life in America. He didn't finish school and always spoke with a heavy accent. But he was so proud of his U.S. citizenship that he hung his framed certificate on the wall. With a lifetime of hard work, his family built better lives for themselves and their children to pursue the American Dream, and today his granddaughter is a Member of Congress. Immigration forged our country into the great nation that we are today, and now more than ever it will be key to driving the United States forward in this new century." # # #
01.23.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) was unanimously re-elected to serve as Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD). With 38 Members, it is larger than any state delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Lofgren was first elected as chair in 2003. Over the course of her tenure, the delegation has grown from 34 Members to 38 Members. "As a life-long Californian, I'm immensely honored by this opportunity to continue my work bringing our delegation together to advocate on behalf of our great state. Our growing and richly diverse delegation is well positioned to help Californians grow a stronger economy, invest in education, implement health care reform, foster new clean energy industries, reform our broken immigration system and build a 21st Century transportation system. I will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with my Republican colleagues and their delegation's new chairman, Rep. Ken Calvert, in the best interest of the Golden State. I also look forward to continuing my work with Governor Jerry Brown, the California State Legislature and the Obama Administration on behalf of California's families." The CDCD supports delegation members in the performance of their official and representational duties, and advocates for common statewide issues in Congress. During the 112th Congress the CDCD worked to bring relief to California communities and families affected by the nation's housing mortgage crisis; to support the California High Speed Rail project; bring the Patent Office to California; and help implement health care reform. # # #
01.23.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced that she will serve on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Science, Space and Technology Committee in the 113th Congress. Rep. Lofgren will serve as the ranking member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Border Enforcement, where she will provide Democratic leadership on immigration issues. She will also serve on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, a key assignment for matters pertaining to patents, copyright reforms and issues related to a free and open Internet. On the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, Rep. Lofgren will serve on the Subcommittee on Energy and the Subcommittee on Research. These subcommittee assignments will place Rep. Lofgren in key areas to advance policy related to energy research and development, and broader U.S. scientific research and technology policy. "Silicon Valley is a cradle for U.S. innovation and entrepreneurship, and I intend to bring that kind of collaborative, forward thinking approach to create new opportunities for American success," said Rep. Lofgren. "I look forward to working together with my colleagues to reform our broken immigration system, ensure the Internet remains a vibrant engine for growth and innovation, and to further America's research into new energy technologies." Rep. Lofgren's announced assignments include: House Committee on Judiciary Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet House Committee on Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Energy Subcommittee on Research # # #
01.03.2013	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statements today regarding the Federal Trade Commission's (FTC) antitrust settlement with Google: "I'm pleased the FTC chose to complete its investigation of Google's search practices with an enforceable agreement to protect consumers without impermissibly expanding the jurisdictional reach of the FTC," said Rep. Lofgren. "It's good that the consent agreement between the FTC and Google on patents will help ensure consumers continue to benefit from new and innovative products and services that connect them to the Internet. Providing entrepreneurs and companies with greater access to standard technologies will help keep this key marketplace strong and diverse‹creating jobs and growing our economy," Lofgren said. "Following its investigation, the FTC's settlement with Google today strikes an appropriate balance that protects consumers and preserves innovation," Rep. Eshoo said. "At a time when the market for smartphones, tablets and other wireless devices continues to flourish, the settlement ensures that competitors will have access to the patents essential to powering these key technologies." "Furthermore, despite a thorough investigation into allegations of search bias, the FTC ultimately decided against taking action that could hinder innovation and consumer choice. I applaud this decision, which recognizes the evolving Internet search market and the exciting innovations that have been the hallmark of the Internet to date," Eshoo continued. In a letter to the FTC last November, Eshoo and Lofgren expressed concerns over the Commission's antitrust investigation of Google. # # #
12.13.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today on a U.N. treaty under consideration at a global telecommunications conference in Dubai, sponsored by the International Telecommunications Union. The United States is currently refusing to sign the treaty as drafted because it would, as is being reported in various media outlets, give U.N. sanction to censorship and regulation of the Internet, including private networks: "A free and open Internet with limited restrictions has been critical to its development into one of the greatest tools for empowering people to connect and share information globally. But there are countries and groups who wish to exert greater control over the Internet in order to restrict or censor it for political or cultural reasons. We need to stand firm against those kinds of threats if we want the Internet to continue as a vibrant engine for innovation, human rights, cultural and economic growth." # # #
11.19.2012	During SOPA I saw firsthand the Reddit community's strong dedication to free expression. Because of that dedication, I thought I would attempt an experiment: crowdsourcing a legislative proposal on Reddit. The goal of the legislation would be to build due process requirements into domain name seizures for copyright infringement. I'd like your thoughts on the proposal. (Please visit this link for more background information.) Although I am considering introducing a bill on domain name seizures for infringement, that does not mean I accept the practice as legal or Constitutional. Nonetheless, since these seizure actions are occurring, I thought it worthwhile to explore a legislative means providing appropriate protections for free expression and due process. While I promise to carefully consider all recommendations, I can't, of course, promise that every suggestion can be incorporated into a bill I'd introduce. The goal is to develop targeted legislation that requires the government to provide notice and an opportunity for website operators to defend themselves prior to seizing or redirecting their domain names. The focus would be on government domain name seizures based on accusations that a website facilitates copyright infringement and not, for example, accusations of obscenity or libel. Feedback and input should also take into account any legitimate concerns that notice or delay might reasonably lead to destruction of evidence, threats to the physical safety of an individual, or other unintended negative consequences. So, Internet policy experts and free speech warriors: How, specifically, would you suggest accomplishing these goals? I look forward to reading your thoughts and input! - Rep. Zoe Lofgren (Click here to be redirected to Zoe's Reddit post)
11.16.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 6156, the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012: "I support trade relations with Russia, but I voted against this bill because a broad measure was added to the bill at a late stage which could freeze people's assets without due process, without any court review, simply by adding a name to a list. While I want to see permanent normal trade status, I think more consideration was needed to ensure this expanded bill does not violate the due process rights guaranteed by our Constitution." # # #
09.28.2012	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) applauded an award of more than $1 million in Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) federal funding that will help launch an initiative aimed at improving health and wellness for 94,000 people in south Santa Clara County. The grant will help launch the "South County: United for Health" anti-obesity program focused on helping low-income, medically underserved, predominately Hispanic communities in Gilroy, Morgan Hill and parts of San Martin. "I'm proud this funding will help parents and their children live active, healthier lives by fighting obesity and tobacco use," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "This kind of federal-local partnership lifts our entire community up by helping some of our most vulnerable residents lead better lives through improved nutrition, physical health and mental well being." In addition to combating obesity, the grant is designed to support tobacco use prevention for students and adults, through smoking cessation programs and efforts reducing second hand smoke exposure. The funding will also support programs aimed at improving emotional well being and overall mental health services for residents of the community. # # #
09.25.2012	ECPA 2.0, Global Free Internet Bills Lay Out Key Principles and Tools for Internet Privacy & Growth Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced she has introduced a package of legislation designed to protect the privacy and free expression of Internet users and ensure continued innovation in online services. Rep. Lofgren, who sounded the first warning cry in Congress over the controversial Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) that millions of Americans spoke out against as one of the greatest threats to the Internet, said she introduced the bills to begin a serious conversation on the future of an open and free Internet. "The Internet is a thriving and vibrant engine for cultural and economic growth because it empowers people to connect and share information globally with limited restrictions," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "We need proactive laws designed to preserve an open and truly global Internet from SOPA-like legislation, unduly restrictive treaties and trade agreements, and overbroad government surveillance." Rep. Lofgren said her two bills lay out key principles and tools for protecting Internet users' free expression and privacy, preserving user trust in online services, and ensuring the path for Internet-related innovation and economic growth remain clear. Rep. Lofgren noted the bills are unlikely to be acted upon before the end of the year and said she plans to reintroduce them next year when the newly elected Congress meets. The first bill, H.R. 6529, the ECPA 2.0 Act, modifies the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) to strengthen the privacy of Internet and wireless users from outdated government surveillance laws. The second bill, H.R. 6530, the Global Free Internet Act, creates a U.S.-based task force composed of elected and non-elected government and private sector experts responsible for identifying and responding to domestic or international threats to Internet users, online services and the technical architecture of the Internet. Rep. Lofgren introduced an earlier version of the Global Free Internet Act in 2010. Click here for a detailed summary of the ECPA 2.0 Act and the Global Free Internet Act. # # #
09.24.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk calling for greater transparency in the negotiating process and balanced protections for free expression in the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) international trade agreement. Rep. Lofgren said that she remains concerned with the lack of transparency surrounding the TPP negotiations in light of leaked intellectual property (IP) enforcement provisions which may "threaten online free speech, privacy, and innovation." "The TPP's IP provisions must not undermine the free expression of Internet users, the ability to share and create content online, the free and open character of the Internet, or the freedom of digital service providers to innovate," Rep. Lofgren cautioned. "Lack of transparency and overbroad IP enforcement requirements have held back other international trade agreements in the recent past — these same issues are now undermining the results [USTR seeks] to achieve with TPP." The letter can be viewed by clicking here. The letter follows a July meeting between Rep. Lofgren and USTR Ron Kirk to discuss trade concerns. In June, Rep. Lofgren and more than 130 members of Congress sent USTR a letter asking for greater transparency in the TPP trade negotiations (click here for USTR's response letter). # # #
09.24.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today released a letter urging the Obama Administration to ensure any executive order it may issue on cybersecurity focuses on genuinely critical infrastructure "such as those that — if disrupted — could cause major economic disruption, the loss of thousands of lives, or severe degradation of national security." A Congressional impasse blocking passage of cybersecurity legislation has reportedly prompted the administration to begin drafting an executive order to protect the nation from possible cyber attacks. Rep. Lofgren noted that exclusion of non-critical online services such as "social networking, search engines, and e-commerce networks" would also help to avoid supervision of content that is protected by the First Amendment and that any such supervision could have a "negative impact on free expression, privacy, business operating costs, and innovation in digital services." "Cyber attacks can pose serious threats to public safety and national security, and patching vulnerabilities in our computer networks is an urgent task," Rep. Lofgren wrote. "Targeting the executive order to critical infrastructure will allocate agency resources more efficiently, minimizing conflicting regulatory requirements, and address the most acute threats to public safety." The letter can be viewed by clicking here. # # #
09.20.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), a top ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Immigration Policy and Enforcement Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate of H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs Act of 2012. House Republicans had brought the measure to the floor under a suspension of the rules requiring a 2/3 vote. H.R. 6429 ultimately failed to pass by a vote of 257 to 158, as reported by the presiding chair of the House.Rep. Lofgren's remarks as prepared for delivery:"For more than a decade I have been working to increase high-skilled visas for foreign students with advanced STEM degrees from America's greatest research universities. I am fortunate enough to see firsthand the new technologies, the new companies, and the new jobs they create every day in my district in Silicon Valley."For that reason, it pains me greatly that I cannot support this bill."First, although this bill ostensibly seeks to increase STEM visas, it appears to have another, in my opinion, more sinister purpose‹to actually reduce legal immigration levels. The bill does it in two ways:"On its face, the bill eliminates as many visas as it creates by killing the diversity visa program, which benefits immigrants from countries that have low rates of immigration to the United States. But the bill also discreetly ensures that many of the new visas will go unused by preventing unused visas after 2014 from flowing to other immigrants stuck in decades-long backlogs."This is not the way our immigration system works, and I believe the only reason the bill is written in this fashion is to satisfy anti-immigrant organizations that have long lobbied for reduced levels of immigration."My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are fond of saying that while they are opposed to illegal immigration, they are very much in favor of legal immigration. But this bill shows the opposite."Supporters of legal immigration would not have killed one immigration program to benefit another. Nor would they agree to a Grover Norquist-style "no new immigration" pledge that will continue to strangle our immigration system for years to come. Agreeing to zero-sum rules now means never helping the almost 5 Million legal immigrants currently stuck in backlogs."The Republican bill also expressly allows for-profit and on-line schools to participate. Now while the bill contains language limiting immediate participation, it unquestionably opens the door to future participation. I cannot support a bill that will allow such schools to essentially sell visas to rich, young foreigners."The vast majority of Democrats in this chamber strongly support STEM visas. I've introduced a bill that creates STEM visas without eliminating other visas or including for-profit colleges. It has the support of the Black, Hispanic, and Asian caucus chairs. Bring that to the floor, and you will see strong support from Democrats."It should also get strong Republican support. Republicans in the past, including very conservative Members, have supported STEM legislation that does not eliminate other types of visas. In the 110th Congress, I introduced a bill that did just that with very conservative Republicans such as Texas Members John Carter and Pete Sessions as cosponsors. If they can support new STEM visas without offsets, so can other Republicans today."There is a unique opportunity here to craft a balanced, bipartisan bill that can pass the Senate. But our Majority has instead chosen to jam through a partisan bill that has no chance of becoming law‹solely, I think, to score political points."It seems the only reason they have chosen to pursue this strategy right before an election is an attempt to appear more immigrant-friendly than their record proves them to be, and, perhaps, to curry favor with high-tech groups. But this is an anti-immigration bill, and it only sets back the high-skilled visa cause."I believe that if we take a step back, work in good faith on a bipartisan basis, we can pass a STEM bill with overwhelming support. I am eager to work with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to do just that. It's the right thing to do for the district I represent, and for our country. But this flawed bill is one I cannot support."# # #Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's remarks.
09.18.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced today that the Santa Clara County Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) will receive $750,000 in funding for the agency's first Bloom Energy fuel cell facility. The grant, awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation, will go towards a 400kW fuel cell facility for VTA's Guadalupe Division maintenance yard in San Jose, CA."The growing use of these kinds of cutting edge power sources shows we can reduce dangerous greenhouse gas emissions and meet our power needs with clean, affordable energy," Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) said. " For VTA this will mean a cost-effective power source able to meet its future needs, while allowing for expanded transit options in our community and cleaner air for our kids to breathe.""A clean, affordable transit system is vital to our local economy and environment," said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto). "This funding will help reduce VTA bus emissions in a cost effective way by using new, cutting-edge fuel cell technology, developed right here in California's 14th Congressional District. A green economy is a healthy economy.""I have long been impressed with Bloom Energy's technology and am proud to see DOT supporting this important partnership between an innovative Silicon Valley company and VTA," said Rep, Mike Honda (D-Campbell). "This grant will help VTA serve the pressing transit needs of our community in an environmentally friendly way while also supporting the development of our local clean tech economy."The approximately $4 million fuel cell energy facility will consist of independent power modules, offering VTA the ability to power the maintenance yard and deliver both AC and DC power to charge electric vehicles and buses more quickly. The new system will also offer VTA the ability to expand the power system by adding additional fuel cell modules to meet its future power needs.The three Representatives have been strong supporters of the infrastructure and improvement projects in Santa Clara County and the Valley. They were instrumental in securing the $900 million BART to Silicon Valley project funding announced earlier this year, and recently announced $3.75 million in funding for new zero-emission buses and vehicles in the transit fleet.# # #
09.17.2012	emRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today joined local transportation leaders from the South Bay region at a groundbreaking ceremony for the U.S. 101/Yerba Buena Improvement Project. Rep. Lofgren is a strong proponent of the $36 million infrastructure improvement project, which is the second phase of a larger initiative to improve safety along the U.S. 101 Capitol Expressway corridor by reducing bottlenecks and easing traffic congestion."As the second phase of the larger U.S. 101 corridor improvement initiative, the Yerba Buena improvement project will fix a major bottleneck in this heavily travelled corridor," said Rep. Lofgren. "This project shows how investing in infrastructure puts people to work, improves safety, reduces traffic and paves the way for future economic growth in our community."The first leg of the U.S. 101 corridor project, the $63 million Tully Road interchange improvement, was completed in June. Rep. Lofgren helped secure $1.1 million in federal funding for the Yerba Buena construction and $7 million to fund the Tully Road improvements from the highway funding and authorization bill known as SAFETEA-LU. The project also received more than $4 million in stimulus funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) and is expected to be completed in early 2014.###
09.12.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), a senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate of H.R. 5949, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2012:"Thank you Mr. Chairman and Mr. Speaker. I urge this body to reject this bill."You know, the surveillance bill raises several serious Constitutional and civil liberties issues that Congress needs to address and has not addressed in this bill. I'd like to discuss one of those."Congress should prohibit the federal government from intentionally searching for information on a U.S. person in a data pool amassed lawfully under Sec. 702 of FISA, should such a data pool ever be amassed, unless the searching official has a warrant."Now, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (FAA), does not make it clear that the government must obtain a warrant prior to searching for information acquired incidentally on a U.S. person in a large pool of data that the government has already lawfully obtained under Sec. 702 ‹ should such a data pool ever be amassed."Instead, the information about U.S. persons in such a situation is subject to "minimization procedures" adopted by the Attorney General, and that must be approved by the FISA Court. But that does not explicitly include a warrant requirement, which I think the Constitution requires."The prohibition on "reverse targeting," where the government deliberately targets a non-U.S. person for the purpose of acquiring information about the U.S. person at the other end of the line, is not a substitute for the warrant requirement to search a database for a U.S. person — should such a database ever be amassed under Sec. 702."Minimization procedures" are not a substitute for a warrant in such a case."I think that the government needs to comply with the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution all the time. I think that the privacy of Americans should not be subject to the lower standard of "minimization procedures." That's not in the Constitution."And I think, also, that when we think that we should trade the protections that our Founding Fathers devised for us in the United States Constitution — in the effort to buy safety — we're mistaken."We can be safe while still complying with the Constitution of the United States."I'm mindful that we began this Congress reading most of the United States Constitution on the floor of this House. It's ironic indeed that we should be ending this Congress with a bill that does violation to that very body."# # #Click here for video of Rep. Lofgren's remarks.
08.28.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, CA) today released the official response she received from the State Department on Vietnam’s human rights record and the detention of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan (Richard Nguyen), an American citizen and democracy activist. The letter expresses the State Department’s concern with human rights conditions in Vietnam and highlights the efforts Secretary Clinton, Ambassador Shear, and the U.S. Embassy in Vietnam have taken to try and secure the release of Dr. Nguyen. San Jose, CA — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, CA) today released the official response she received from the State Department on Vietnam’s human rights record and the detention of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan (Richard Nguyen), an American citizen and democracy activist. The letter expresses the State Department’s concern with human rights conditions in Vietnam and highlights the efforts Secretary Clinton, Ambassador Shear, and the U.S. Embassy in Vietnam have taken to try and secure the release of Dr. Nguyen. The letter makes clear that the United States government will not tolerate the rollback of human rights conditions in Vietnam, stating: “During Secretary Clinton’s meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in Hanoi on July 10, she urged Vietnam to release political prisoners, respect religious freedom, and allow Vietnamese citizens to peacefully express their political views, both online and elsewhere. We have been clear with Vietnamese leaders that the American people will not support broad advances in political and economic relations between our countries without demonstrable progress on human rights.” “I’m pleased to hear that Secretary Clinton and the State Department are taking proactive steps to combat the numerous and egregious human rights abuses in Vietnam,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Specifically, I’m hopeful that the efforts of Ambassador Shear and his team at the U.S. Embassy will result in the imminent release of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan. The repressive Vietnamese government has long silenced voices of dissent. We must continue to push the Vietnamese government to respect human rights and allow for meaningful freedom of speech. Secretary Clinton's leadership on human rights issues in Vietnam can only be commended.” The State Department’s letter was in response to an inquiry Rep. Lofgren wrote to Secretary Clinton on August 6, 2012. The inquiry expressed the Congresswoman’s concern about ongoing human rights issues in Vietnam and the imprisonment of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan, a U.S. citizen who was arrested in Vietnam on April 17, 2012. # # # Letter to Secretary Clinton State Dept Response
08.15.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today announced her office will be offering informational outreach and assistance for DREAM Act eligible youth, better known as "DREAMers," as the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) begins accepting applications for deferred action. There are an estimated 9,600 people in the 16th Congressional district who will potentially qualify through deferred action to avoid deportation."These are young people who were brought to the U.S. as children. Raised as Americans, but without the proper paperwork, they live in constant fear of deportation," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Sadly there are some who will try to use this process as a way to take advantage of unsuspecting young immigrants. That is why my office will be offering assistance to help DREAMers navigate the deferred action process through outreach and informational workshops in the weeks ahead."Beginning today, August 15th, USCIS will start accepting requests for deferred action together with applications for employment authorization. Potential DREAMers can learn more about the program at the USCIS website or by visiting Rep. Lofgren's website at www.lofgren.house.gov.# # #
08.09.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today joined with the Bay Area Sikh community to condemn last week's brutal attack on the Sikh Temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, and to call for national unity and reflection against the hatred and fear which now seems to have motivated the tragedy."The attack on the Sikh Temple is a tragedy which has caused our country to pause, and as President Obama said, do some deep national 'soul-searching.' My heart and sympathies goes out to the families and friends of the victims of this senseless attack."The targeting of Americans of the Sikh faith is a heinous act of violence born out of unjustified fear and unyielding ignorance of a religion that preaches peace and tolerance. While the malice that prompted this attack may be unfathomable to many people of good conscience, this tragedy is a troubling reminder of the consequence that hate-driven crimes have on our society."Today we stand united against this kind of hatred. I applaud our Bay Area Sikh community for their selflessness during this tragedy and for organizing a peace rally promoting greater understanding and unity. As a people, we need to come together to stop the dangerous hatred that gives rise to this kind of violence which destroys lives and tears at our country's fabric. By coming together to advance the American ideals of equality and freedom we can overcome the prejudice and bigotry of such a brutal act of terror."# # #
08.08.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today released a bipartisan letter signed by 100 Members of Congress to Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Steven Chu, calling upon the Secretary to address DOE and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) management issues they believe could hinder U.S. research on fusion at the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. A recent report by the National Academies of Science [hyperlink] has raised questions about whether scientific research efforts like fusion are being undermined by significant governance and management problems from the NNSA.Signaling their concern that vital research at NIF is being undermined by the bureaucratic micromanagement, the Members of Congress told Secretary Chu, "Given the tremendous progress to date, we are concerned that‹rather than technical and scientific challenges‹administrative, managerial and budgetary hurdles threaten to impede this promising research."Last month NIF made significant progress in their fusion research, firing a record breaking 500 trillion watt laser shot building up to its efforts to kickstart a sustained fusion reaction from a frozen hydrogen fuel target pellet. Unlike current nuclear-fission power, which produces radioactive waste, fusion harnesses the same reaction driving the core of the Sun's power generating energy in the sun and stars. By using lasers to trigger a fusion reaction in very small amounts of saltwater hydrogen fuel, fusion may ultimately promise a new clean power source that could end our dependency on other power sources.The lawmakers also touted the 500 trillion watt laser shot, saying "this milestone demonstrates major progress and...technical reviews by independent experts indicate that there are no fundamental technical reasons that would preclude eventually achieving ignition."In the letter, Representatives from both parties urged Secretary Chu to act: "It would be severely disappointing to get so close to a tremendous scientific breakthrough — fusion ignition at NIF — only to see it prevented by bureaucracy. We must not let science be stifled by bureaucracy."The letter can be viewed by clicking here.# # #
08.02.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) today announced $6.8 million in federal funding will go towards transportation projects in the Silicon Valley area for railway safety and highway construction. The grants, from the U.S. Department of Transportation, were awarded in the amounts of $5.2 million to the California Department of Transportation (CalTrans) and $1.6 million to Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA)."With the growing demands on our congested roads, these investments will help us build a better, faster and cost effective 21st century transit system," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Improving the San Jose to San Francisco corridor not only creates new jobs in the short-term, it also paves the way for future economic growth in our area for years to come.""Commuters deserve safe, efficient and cost-effective modes of transportation. This funding will go a long way toward modernizing the Peninsula's transit systems and help grow our local economy," Rep. Anna G. Eshoo said."These critical improvements will reduce traffic delays and improve safety for Silicon Valley commuters," said Rep. Mike Honda (D-Campbell). "Investing in our region's transportation system is a highly effective way to boost the economy today and in the future as well as to enhance the quality of life of our communities. I'm proud to represent a region that continuously works towards achieving the transportation technologies of tomorrow."CalTrans received two grants totaling more than $3.2 million for railway-highway crossing hazard elimination along the San Francisco to San Jose railway corridor. The funding will go towards preparing a grade crossing improvement plan identifying safety improvements at forty crossings along the current Caltrain corridor. From there, the grant funding will pay for installing additional safety equipment along the corridor at crossings.In addition, CalTrans will also receive $2 million in funding for Virtual Design Construction (VDC) for constructing the U.S. 101 in Santa Clara project. By using the latest technology, it is expected this initiative will reduce the time and cost for the project and increase safety for both workers and the traveling public.VTA will receive a $1.6 million grant funding the conversion of four miles of High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes on S.R. 237 for express lane (HOT lane) operations. The ongoing project, when completed, will provide congestion relief through more efficient use of existing roadways when carpool lanes are underutilized, while still encouraging carpool use.Reps. Lofgren, Eshoo and Honda have been strong supporters of infrastructure improvement initiatives and instrumental in securing funding for the projects. The grant funding is provided through the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Railroad Administration and Federal Highway Administration.# # #
07.31.2012	emToday 32 Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Ed DeMarco's decision to prevent Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac from offering mortgage principal write-down relief for underwater homeowners:"The American people, and our economy, are the real losers today with FHFA Acting Director DeMarco's decision. Economists from left to right in the political spectrum have called for targeted mortgage principal write-downs to help underwater homeowners stay in their homes. Even FHFA's latest analysis, as reported in the Wall Street Journal, says write-downs would yield $3.6 billion in savings and help 500,000 borrowers stay in their homes. By doing so, we could stop new waves of foreclosures from eroding surrounding neighborhood property values or adding to the multi-billion dollar mortgage debt weighing down our recovery."It is astonishing that Mr. DeMarco refuses to save taxpayers billions of dollars while boosting our economy and helping to keep hundreds of thousands of American families in their homes. This decision has no credibility or basis in fact and should make Americans question what Mr. DeMarco's real reasons are for not acting on his authority to help responsible families stay in their homes."In times of crisis we expect government officials to lead in the best interest of our country. Rather than make a case against allowing write-downs, Mr. DeMarco today has cemented the case for his own incompetency and failure to lead. Sadly, the American people will pay the price for his failures."The California Democratic Congressional Delegation has been actively involved trying to address the foreclosure crisis, repeatedly calling for action to help homeowners and resuscitate the housing market, including a letter in February signed by 116 Members of Congress.This statement is from the following Representatives: Joe Baca; Karen Bass; Xavier Becerra; Howard Berman; Lois Capps; Judy Chu; Jim Costa; Susan Davis; Anna G. Eshoo; Sam Farr; Bob Filner; John Garamendi; Janice Hahn; Mike Honda; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Jerry McNerney; George Miller; Grace Napolitano; Laura Richardson; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Adam Schiff; Brad Sherman; Jackie Speier; Pete Stark; Mike Thompson; Maxine Waters; Henry Waxman; Lynn Woolsey# # #
07.19.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced today that the Santa Clara County Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) will receive $3.75 million in funding for new buses through a U.S. Department of Transportation grant. The grant, awarded competitively, will offer the VTA significant funding to replace or expand their fleet of 450 buses and vehicles throughout their 326 square mile service area."This is welcome news to the more than 33.1 million riders who use VTA buses each year and will benefit from the added capacity and service these new buses will bring," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Specifically, this will bring new zero-emission vehicles into our community. It will mean safe, comfortable rides and greater accessibility for all of our residents and visitors.""For 40 years, VTA buses have provided a safe, accessible, and community-focused option for millions of Santa Clara County riders," Rep. Anna G. Eshoo said. "This award will help keep VTA's transit system running smoothly and support the agency's commitment to reducing emissions and congestion for the region.""Zero-emission vehicles are a critical part of the future of public transportation, and Silicon Valley is leading the way," said Rep. Mike Honda. "That is why I continue to push my fellow colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee to support these programs that transition our buses away from fossil fuels."The three Representatives have been strong supporters of the infrastructure and improvement projects in Santa Clara County and the Valley. They were instrumental in securing the $900 million BART to Silicon Valley project funding announced earlier this year, and have inaugurated several recently completed highway improvements projects. The grant funding is provided through the State of Good Repair Program of the U.S. Department of Transportation, which invests in the nation's bus and rail systems to provide safe and reliable public transport service.# # #
07.17.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced today that the Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport will receive up to $7 million in construction funding for runway related improvements through a U.S. Department of Transportation grant. The grant will fund the fifth phase of an ongoing $55 million construction project begun in 2009 improving the airport's general aviation taxiway running parallel to Runway 11/29."By expanding the airport's offerings through improved general aviation capabilities, more business travelers will choose Mineta San Jose International as the gateway to the Valley," said Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren. "This will be especially important as we look to the future when the Silicon Valley patent office is opened, bringing an influx of visitors whose travel will boost local businesses and create jobs in our community.""Mineta San Jose International Airport is Silicon Valley's airport, and these continued improvements reflect Silicon Valley's spirit of innovation," said Congressman Mike Honda. "The founding for the fourth phase of the airport improvement project will ensure that as our region grows, the Mineta San Jose International Airport be able to match and support that growth, allowing easy access for domestic and international business travelers and tourists and boosting the local economy."Both Reps. Lofgren and Honda have been strong supporters of the improvement project and instrumental in securing funding for the construction. The grant funding is provided through the Airport Improvement Program of the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration, which supports the nation's airport infrastructure by providing grants for capital improvements.# # #
07.17.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced today that Goodwill Industries of Santa Clara County, Inc., has been awarded a $419,948.00 grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for housing programs assisting homeless veterans. The grant, which will help support fifty-two participating households, is part of the Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) program improving housing stability for very low-income veterans and their families."Veterans and their families are vulnerable for becoming homeless through illness, job loss, or an injury they sustained while serving our country," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "Democrats are committed to helping our returning veterans. Thanks to programs such as the SSVF grant program, community organizations can help prevent at-risk veterans from losing their homes and offer outreach services to help them get back on their feet and rebuild their lives.""When veterans return home, our commitment to ensuring they have life's basic necessities, from health care to housing, must be unwavering," Rep. Anna G. Eshoo said. "These awards will go a long way to assist our returning veterans and their families who have made such enormous sacrifices for our country.""I am delighted that the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) has renewed funding to a pair of fantastic organizations, Emergency Housing Consortium of Santa Clara County and the Goodwill Industries of Santa Clara County, as part of its expanding Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program," said Rep. Mike Honda. "This type of funding is absolutely essential to the well-being of our veterans, who have so valiantly served our country. In their time of need, it is our duty to ensure that low-income Veteran families, living in or transitioning to permanent housing, are guaranteed the supportive services that they deserve."The $307,885 allocated to the Emergency Housing Consortium will serve approximately 56 participant households in Santa Clara, while the $420,000 granted to Goodwill Industries will serve 52 participant households in south Alameda, Santa Clara, San Benito, and San Mateo Counties," Rep. Honda noted. "I am committed to providing our veterans with the programs, services, and benefits they deserve for risking their lives to defend America. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I made sure that H.R. 5854, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Act of 2013, provided $71.7 billion in discretionary funding, which is the same level as the 2012 fiscal year. In Congress, I will continue to fight for increased funding to agencies that provide essential programs like SSVF - a key part of the urgent national mission to end homelessness among veterans."A Santa Clara County report estimated that on any given night in 2011, Santa Clara County had a homeless veteran population of 667 persons, down from 866 in 2009 thanks to programs such as this that allow organizations like Goodwill Industries of Santa Clara County to provide a range of services to very low-income veteran families living in — or transitioning to — permanent housing. Those community organizations provide a range of services that promote housing stability among eligible very low income veteran families.Under the grants, homeless providers will offer veterans and their family members outreach, case management, assistance in obtaining VA benefits and assistance in getting other public benefits. They can also offer temporary financial assistance on behalf of veterans for rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs.# # #
07.01.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) hailed the news that one of four new U.S. Patent and Trademark Office satellite locations will be located in San Jose, CA. The official decision is expected to be announced by the U.S. Commerce Department on Monday, July 2, 2012. A long time advocate to bring the patent office expansion to Silicon Valley and California, as recently as last week Rep. Lofgren publically pressed Patent Office officials to locate an office in San Jose."This is a big win for San Jose and California that will directly benefit the U.S. economy," Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren said. "With more than a quarter of all America's patents originating in Silicon Valley, our community is the driving force of American innovation. Right now there is a backlog of 620,000 pending patents with as many as 500,000 new patents filed every year, so inventors can face a three year processing wait. That is unacceptable and a huge setback for new products and cutting edge technologies.""By having a patent office in San Jose, enterprising startups and global technology leaders alike will benefit from direct access to services that currently are only available across the country in Washington," Congresswoman Lofgren said. "This means products can be brought from the drawing board to the marketplace faster and easier, creating a more direct path to economic growth and the job creation that comes from it."The announcement comes after a concerted effort by Reps. Lofgren, Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell). A bipartisan coalition of California's Congressional Delegation, advocating broadly for an office in California, assisted in the effort. The Leadership Group helped rally the Silicon Valley business community in advocating that the Commerce Department locate a patent office in San Jose. The City of San Jose, along with San Jose State University, played key roles in coordinating the effort in the region.The patent reform law signed into law by President Barack Obama in September 2011 required at least three new satellite patent office locations to be opened around the country by 2014 to process patent applications and to help inventors access services in their region. The four new offices expected to be announced will be built at no cost to the taxpayer because the Patent Office is funded directly through patent fees.# # #
06.29.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) cast her vote today to keep interest rates low on student loans. Rep. Lofgren, who led a rally against doubling student loan rates in May at San Jose State University, credited the students, families and officials across the nation who spoke out against Republican attempts to quietly let current rates double for stopping the hike."San Jose students, along with others across the country, made it clear that this is not the time for raising barriers to a college education if we are going to keep our economy innovative and competitive in the 21st Century," Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren said. "By keeping interest rates low, more than 572,000 students and families across California won't be forced to pay an additional $476 million in interest on loans just to pursue their dreams of a better life through higher education."At San Jose State University alone, 8,420 undergraduates rely upon $34.7 million in direct subsidized Stafford loan programs to help pay for their college education. Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, the Democratic-led Congress made historic investments in student aid through low loan interest rates, Pell Grants and tax credits that helped many students pursue their dreams of a higher education. The law brought interest rates on need-based federal student loans down to 3.4 percent, making these loans more affordable for low- and middle-income students.###
06.29.2012	emReps. Jim Costa (D-Fresno), Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), and Laura Richardson, Co-Chairs of the CA High-Speed Rail Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 239 to 185 to pass Rep. Jeff Denham's (R-CA) amendment preventing funding for California's High Speed Rail project:"Republicans have made it clear they will do anything they can to kill California's High Speed Rail project, and the Denham amendment is one more example of how thoughtless partisanship would hurt all of California. That's because, in addition to preventing high speed rail funding, it could also cut off rail related grant funding for projects like track safety and system upgrades in California. This short-sightedness would limit federal funds for California used to upgrade our transportation infrastructure so we can promote commerce and spur job creation."The facts for building high speed rail are not in dispute. Without it, we will need to spend more than twice the amount of the high speed rail project building over 4,000 new freeway lane miles, 115 new airport gates and 4 new runways just to keep up with California's population growth. By passing this amendment today, Republicans are pushing a job killing agenda focused on wasting billions in lost worker productivity and energy consumed tied up in highway and airport congestion‹money that could be better used growing our economy."###
06.28.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act:"Today's ruling is a victory for the millions of Americans who are the true beneficiaries of the Affordable Care Act's expanded, affordable coverage that can't be denied because of pre-existing conditions. I was proud to vote for this bill when it passed the House of Representatives in March 2010. Because of this law more than 440,000 children, adults and seniors of the16th congressional district have been shielded from excessive rate increases, health coverage rescissions, and lifetime coverage limits."Healthcare reform is already working to bring relief to our community. It is already expanding coverage for children and young adults, allowing businesses to expand coverage through tax credits, and helping Santa Clara County seniors afford the prescriptions they need."Because of the Affordable Care Act, in the 16th Congressional District:6,400 young adults in the district now have health insurance.3,900 seniors in the district received prescription drug discounts worth $2 million, an average discount of $520 per senior.46,000 seniors in the district received Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles.33,000 children and 120,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles.500 small businesses in the district received tax credits to help maintain or expand health care coverage for their employees.$4.8 million in public health grants have been given to community health centers, hospitals, doctors, and other healthcare providers in the district to improve the community's health.9,000 to 41,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers.Consumer protection provisions have helped protect 170,000 district residents from the worst abuses of health insurers like excessive rate increases.Reform has eliminated the threat of health coverage rescissions for more than 440,000 residents.Reform has banned insurance companies from establishing lifetime coverage limits for 240,000 residents.
06.20.2012	emToday, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) welcomed Gabriel Sul, the 2012 Congressional Art Competition Winner for the 16th Congressional District, to Washington, DC for the unveiling of his picture in the U.S. Capitol complex. Mr. Sul, a student at Mt. Pleasant High School, travelled to Washington where he joined hundreds of student artists from across the country in the unveiling ceremony for Congressional Art Competition winners."I am delighted to welcome Gabriel and his mother to Washington for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "San Jose is known for its rich and vibrant arts scene, and Gabriel's work shows a sophistication that made his work a standout in the competition. I'm proud that his work will hang in the U.S. Capitol representing the 16th Congressional District."Each spring, the House of Representatives and Senate sponsor the Congressional Arts Competition for high school students across America to demonstrate the important role that the arts play in American society. Students submit their own artwork through their high school, and one winner is chosen from each participating Congressional district. This year's 16th Congressional District winning artwork submission by Mr. Sul will be showcased for one full year in the Cannon Tunnel at the U.S. Capitol Complex. Rep. Lofgren (center) with 2012 Congressional Art Competition winner Gabriel Sul (right) & his mother (left)2012 Congressional Art Competition winner for the 16th Congressional District Gabriel Sul (left) and his mother (center) pose in front of his artwork in the U.S. Capitol
06.18.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement after House Resolution 683, the Resolution of Regret for the Chinese Exclusion Act, was passed by the House of Representatives today: "Chinese immigrants were the target of our nation's first law to ban immigration by race or nationality. The Chinese Exclusion Act, passed in 1892, largely barred Chinese people from traveling to this country unless they were merchants, teachers or students. It also prohibited Chinese residents, no matter how long they had legally worked in the country, from becoming naturalized citizens. Over 51 years elapsed before this unjust law was repealed by Congress in 1943. "Today, with over 2.5 million Chinese Americans, it's hard to imagine that such a law existed. Chinese Americans have become part of the fabric of this great country and have risen to become leaders of industry, culture, public service, education and science. "By passing this resolution Congress repudiates the Chinese Exclusion Act. Hopefully by recognizing the lessons of this shameful act of discrimination, we can stop similar harsh anti-immigrant laws from being enacted today."# # #
06.15.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the leading and most senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement, released the following statement in support of the Secretary of Homeland Security's announcement to use the Department's prosecutorial discretion on a case-by-case basis to offer "deferred action" to undocumented youth who were brought to the U.S. as children and can contribute to our nation through higher education or military service:"I strongly commend President Obama and Secretary Napolitano for their decision to exercise prosecutorial discretion on a case-by-case basis for certain young people who were brought to this country as children and know only America as their home. This announcement builds on prior Administration efforts to prioritize the removal of dangerous criminals over DREAM Act students and others who pose no threat to our country."The President understands these are innocent young people who are American in every sense of the word, but who live in constant fear of deportation. The President's actions will provide temporary deferred action and give these young people the opportunity to live freely and contribute to the country they love."The action taken today is a sensible progression of the Administration's prosecutorial discretion initiative, which has sought to inject rationality into an otherwise dysfunctional immigration system. This announcement will further help law enforcement focus its limited resources on immigration priorities, such as those with criminal backgrounds who pose real threats to our communities. Prosecutorial discretion has been used by law enforcement and immigration agents to set enforcement priorities since the country's founding."By using its legal authority to provide temporary deferred action and enable young people to actively contribute to our society and economy, the Administration is addressing an issue that has broad bipartisan support and is giving Congress the breathing room it needs to fix our country's immigration laws. While the Administration's action is an important step forward, it does not replace the need for Congressional action. Today's announcement, for example, does not provide these young people with a path to citizenship, which would allow them to fully participate in the American Dream. The DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform are still national imperatives."I will work with the administration to ensure that today's announcement is implemented quickly and thoroughly across the country. I will also continue to work with my colleagues across the aisle to finally pass the DREAM Act, which has enjoyed bipartisan support since its introduction in 2001. Today is a giant step forward, but we still have a long way to go."# # #
06.15.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today joined transportation leaders from across the South Bay area in a ribbon cutting ceremony opening the new U.S. 101 / Tully Road Improvement project. Rep. Lofgren was a strong proponent of the $63 million project, and spoke about how the improvements will reduce traffic congestion and improve safety along the busy U.S. 101 corridor in east San Jose by eliminating traffic bottlenecks and removing merging and weaving conflicts."Today we celebrate the culmination of a project that vastly improves travel and safety in one of the Valley's most congested corridors," said Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren. "It is important to note that in addition to reducing congestion, infrastructure projects like this are important investments that bring real economic benefits to San Jose for many years to come."Rep. Lofgren helped secure over $7 million in funding through the 2005 highway funding and authorization bill known as SAFETEA-LU. The project also received more than $4 million in stimulus funding from American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which Rep. Lofgren supported in 2009.# # #
06.07.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) delivered the following statement paying tribute to, and honoring the life of, U.S. Army Second Lieutenant Travis Morgado today in the U.S. House of Representatives. 2nd Lt. Morgado was killed in Afghanistan on May 23, 2012, while conducting operations in support of Operation Enduring Freedom:Remarks as delivered:"Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor the life and service of Army Second Lieutenant Travis Morgado, who was killed in action on May 23, in the Kandahar Province of Afghanistan. He was 25 years old. Travis was the son of Joe Morgado of San Jose, and our community was greatly saddened to hear of his passing."Born in Los Gatos, he moved to Edmonds, Washington, with his mother when he was 5. He graduated from the University of Washington with a degree in civil engineering in 2009, and enlisted in the Army, determined to serve his country."He deployed to Afghanistan on March 20th, and was tragically killed while conducting operations in support of Operation Enduring Freedom."Second Lieutenant Morgado leaves behind his mother, Andrea, and stepfather, Dean Kessler, his father, Joe, and stepmother, Nancy, as well as two younger brothers, a stepsister, and a stepbrother. I would like to extend my gratitude to Second Lieutenant Morgado and his family, and I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring his service to our country."He served America well with courage and honor. I ask all of Congress to join me in thanking his family as they grieve at his loss and to express our condolences to all of them." Click the image above to watch video of Rep. Lofgren's tribute to 2nd Lt. Travis Morgado
05.30.2012	Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation referred a letter from the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) General Counsel Alfred Pollard to the FHFA Inspector General, Department of Justice and Government Accountability Office. The letter from Mr. Pollard, which was apparently unsolicited, was sent to the California State Legislative Conference Committee and discusses his concerns with provisions in the Homeowners Bill of Rights. The letter, which can be viewed by clicking here, largely takes its substance from the talking points of the banking and mortgage industry. Lobbying on behalf of private industry is not an authorized activity for an independent federal regulatory agency. The Members state, "To the best of our knowledge, the letter was not requested by the Conference Committee, questions the needs for states to enact laws seeking to assist homeowners at risk of foreclosure, and contradicts the FHFA's statutory mission of protecting the public interest." The Members noted that, "significant portions of the 'Foreclosure Delays' section appear to be copied and pasted directly from testimony you gave at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing in New York in March...[yet] there are significant differences between New York and California foreclosure laws...This raises the question of whether your concern about efforts to mitigate foreclosures is specific to California law, or whether you are ideologically opposed to foreclosure mitigation in general." Click here to link to the letter (the text is also pasted below), which was signed by the following Representatives (in alphabetical order): Joe Baca, Susan Davis, Anna G. Eshoo, Sam Farr, Janice Hahn, Mike Honda, Zoe Lofgren, Doris Matsui, George Miller, Laura Richardson, Pete Stark, Mike Thompson, Maxine Waters, Lynn Woolsey # # # May 30, 2012 Alfred M. Pollard General Counsel Federal Housing Finance Agency 400 Seventh Street S.W., Eighth Floor Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Mr. Pollard: We are writing regarding your May 11th letter to the Members of the California State Legislative Conference Committee, where you discuss your concerns with provisions in the Homeowners Bill of Rights. Your letter, which to the best of our knowledge was not requested by the Conference Committee, also questions the needs for states to enact laws seeking to assist homeowners at risk of foreclosure, on the grounds that such laws needlessly delay foreclosures. After a careful review, we have concluded that your letter is devoid of any meaningful substantive analysis, takes the path of least resistance, which is most beneficial to the financial industry but most harmful to at-risk homeowners, and directly contradicts the FHFA's statutory mission of protecting the public interest. We find this unworthy of the high standards taxpayers have come to expect of their federal regulators, particularly in the wake of the regulatory failures that led up to the 2008 financial crisis. Issues Outside of FHFA's Mission We believe your letter fails to meet one of FHFA's core mandates to act in a manner consistent with the public interest. Congress created the FHFA to ensure the safe and sound operation of the government sponsored enterprises in a manner "consistent with the public interest". Given this congressional mandate, we are perplexed that you would not include in your letter any analysis of the harm the proposed California law may have on the safety and soundness of the enterprises or on the public interest. Instead, after offering your comments on two specific provisions (without clearly articulating whether any fixes would address your concerns), you devote more than half of the letter to a series of unsubstantiated assertions about the inadvisability of new state laws to protect homeowners — which, in your view, needlessly delay foreclosures and encourage litigation. Frankly, your expressed concern for "increasing legal risks for lenders and investors" is not one we would expect to hear from an independent regulator acting in the best interests of the taxpayers — though we certainly would expect to hear it from a regulated industry. Your letter comments on pending state legislation and even offers opinions on existing statutes, including California's non-judicial foreclosure process and the scope of California's tenant protection laws. Yet it does so in an unsubstantiated manner that demonstrates a clear bias towards the lending industry's preferred position. Such advocacy on behalf of private industry, particularly in a matter related to existing state law, is a very questionable activity for an independent federal regulatory agency to undertake, let alone one with an expressed mandate to act in a manner consistent with public interest. Even if we accept the premise that commenting on pro-consumer state-level legislation is an appropriate activity related to the agency's core duties, your letter addresses issues that are not under FHFA's primary jurisdiction. For example, the letter comments on pending legislation's definition of "robo-signing." If robo-signing facilitates unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would have primary federal responsibility. If such practices constitute or facilitate federal criminal fraud, the Department of Justice would have investigative responsibility. Equally concerning, your comments against a consumer's private right of action are nearly identical to a May 10, 2012 press release from the California Bankers Association (see attached). It has been well documented that servicers have caused unnecessary problems and delays in modifications, which in some cases have led to unnecessary foreclosures — a fact that your letter blatantly ignores. Every homeowner should be entitled to seek appropriate remedies through our judicial system if they believe such an action is warranted. Though you asserted that state laws may result in unnecessary delays and litigation, you failed to demonstrate with any rigorous analysis how this would harm public interest. More generally, significant portions of the letter also appear to stand in direct conflict to FHFA's statutory duties, including (1) the duties to "permit bona fide tenants who are current on their rent to remain in their homes" and to "maximize assistance to homeowners and...to minimize foreclosures," and (2) the duties to support "resilient national housing finance markets." It is concerning that you would lobby against legislation intended to achieve these exact goals, including protecting bona fide tenants and minimizing foreclosures. The pending legislation also intends to ensure that lenders and servicers comply with existing mortgage lending and servicing laws. Their failure to do so harms national housing finance markets. We are perplexed as to how such a position represents an action consistent with the public interest. Lack of Expertise on Issues Addressed in the Letter Unfortunately for a regulatory agency that oversees such an important segment of the mortgage market, it does not appear from your letter that your office has adequate expertise on the specifics of California law to offer such sweeping commentary. For example, significant portions of the "Foreclosure Delays" section appear to be copied and pasted directly from testimony you gave at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing in New York in March. This raises the question of whether your concern about efforts to mitigate foreclosures is specific to California law, or whether you are ideologically opposed to foreclosure mitigation in general. We note that there are significant differences between New York and California foreclosure laws‹for example, New York is a judicial foreclosure state, while California is not. Your letter also raises other questions about your familiarity with the relevant law. It suggests that existing federal law addresses the myriad concerns about lender and servicer abuses. Yet the servicing standards established by the national housing settlement only extend for three-and-a-half years. Meanwhile, the federal Protecting Tenants at Foreclosure Act (PTFA) is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2014. Hopefully, the PTFA will be extended and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will enact strong permanent mortgage servicing standards. But to suggest that a state government can rely on a federal law that has not yet passed and federal regulations that have not yet been enacted displays either ignorance on your part or an attempt to mislead. Moreover, the letter directly conflicts with Congress' intent in establishing a national floor, not a ceiling, for tenant protections after foreclosure. The PTFA asserts state and local laws may be enacted that "provides longer time periods or other additional protections for tenants." By attempting to force the federal standard into pending state legislation, FHFA is violating the spirit of PTFA. It is inappropriate to offer this sort of commentary on behalf of a federal regulatory agency, when you do not appear to have demonstrated a capacity for authoritative analysis to provide well-informed advice, and in a manner consistent with the public interest. We believe your comments indicate prioritization of the mortgage lending industry's views over compliance with your agency's mandates‹in particular, support for homeowners with mortgages owned or guaranteed by the Enterprises. For this reason, we believe your lobbying is inappropriate and we have referred your letter to the FHFA's Inspector General, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Government Accountability Office in an effort to seek guidance as to whether your lobbying efforts and positions comply with applicable statutes. Sincerely, (in alphabetical order): Joe Baca Susan Davis Anna G. Eshoo Sam Farr Janice Hahn Mike Honda Zoe Lofgren Doris Matsui George Miller Laura Richardson Pete Stark Mike Thompson Maxine Waters Lynn Woolsey
05.17.2012	emBoth California Senators, and 32 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, sent a letter today calling on Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki to immediately address serious delays and troubling veterans claims processing problems at VA Regional Offices (VAROs) in California. In the letter they refer to recent VA Office of the Inspector General (IG) reports, telling Secretary Shinseki:"Unfortunately, it is clear that high error rates are a serious problem in California VAROs, and that these problems are most often due to ineffective oversight by management and incorrect interpretation of VA guidelines by staff."The investigation revealed 97% of the disability claims reviewed by the IG in the Los Angeles VARO were incorrectly processed. Similarly, 77% of the disability claims in the San Diego VARO and over half of those at the Oakland VARO reviewed by the IG were incorrectly processed. Just as troubling, the investigation revealed about half of the traumatic brain injury case evaluations at all three facilities reviewed by the IG were processed incorrectly. California VAROs may also have deprived Gulf War Veterans of their opportunity to receive mental health treatments from the VA.The two Senators and 32 Representatives told Secretary Shinseki "Given the severity of the situation faced by California veterans waiting to receive their benefits, we ask that you provide us the following:The steps being taken to immediately ensure that VAROs in California properly address the IG's recommendations, including how staff will be held accountable for their performance.The follow-up actions that will be taken to ensure California VAROs are improving in their performance.An understanding of why the Los Angeles VARO is currently in what is referred to as "safe mode," which means that staff are not held accountable to VA standards."Click here to link to the letter, which was signed by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, and the following Representatives (in alphabetical order): Joe Baca, Karen Bass, Xavier Becerra, Howard Berman, Lois Capps, Dennis Cardoza, Judy Chu, Jim Costa, Susan Davis, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, John Garamendi, Janice Hahn, Mike Honda, Barbara Lee, Zoe Lofgren, Doris Matsui, Jerry McNerney, George Miller, Grace Napolitano, Laura Richardson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Linda Sanchez, Loretta Sanchez, Adam Schiff, Jackie Speier, Pete Stark, Mike Thompson, Maxine Waters, Henry Waxman, Lynn Woolsey
05.03.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) joined students and university officials today during a rally at San Jose State University in urging the Republican-controlled Congress to keep interest rates low on student loans. Speaking at the student-led rally, Rep. Lofgren said a lack of action to prevent loan rates from doubling in July will place a hefty price tag on local students and families who must borrow to attend college."California leads the nation in rising college costs with a 21% jump in tuition rates last year and low loan interest rates, Pell Grants and tax credits have helped shield many students pursuing their dreams of a higher education. If interest rates for college students double to 6.8 percent, more than 572,000 students across California will pay an additional $476 million in interest just to go to school," said Rep. Lofgren. "At San Jose State University, 8,420 undergraduates rely upon $34.7 million in direct subsidized Stafford loan programs to help pay for their college education. This is not the time to make cuts and raise barriers to a college education if we are going to keep our economy innovative and competitive in the 21st Century.""The cost of education continues to increase and this issue is very important to the more than 8,400 San Jose State University students who rely on these loans," said Calvin Worsnup, incoming President of the San Jose State University Associated Students. "That's why students are speaking up to have our voices heard that this isn't the time to double interest rates on student loans."Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, the Democratic-led Congress made historic investments in student aid. The law brought interest rates on need-based federal student loans down to 3.4 percent, making these loans more affordable for low- and middle-income students. Rep. Lofgren supports legislation, H.R. 3826 and H.R. 4170, that extends the 3.4 percent interest rate for need-based federal student loans. If Congress doesn't act before July, the rate will jump up to 6.8 percent, and more than 7 million students nationwide will incur an additional $6.3 billion in repayment costs for the 2012 — 2013 academic school year.###
04.30.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), released the following statement on Black April, commemorating Saigon's capture by the Vietnamese Communists on April 30, 1975, and honoring those who sacrificed for freedom in Vietnam:"Today I join others around the world in commemorating the 37th anniversary of the fall of Saigon to the communists. It is a time for somber reflection on the past and recognition of the resilience and strength of the Vietnamese-American community today," said Rep. Lofgren. "Black April also serves to remind us that the Vietnamese government continues to oppress its own people, arresting and harassing bloggers and peaceful advocates for democracy. That is why I introduced the FREE Vietnam Act, tying coveted trade preferences for Vietnam to improving human rights for its citizens. With the FREE Vietnam Act, we send a message to the Vietnamese government that these actions are unacceptable and continued human rights violations will not be tolerated."Click here for more information on H.R. 5157, the FREE Vietnam (Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement) Act.
04.27.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced the bipartisan Fostering Rights through Economic Engagement in Vietnam ("FREE Vietnam") Act barring Vietnam from enjoying special U.S. trade preferences until the country takes serious measures to curb human rights abuses.Despite consistent pressure from Congress and human rights organizations, the Vietnamese government continues to violate its international human rights obligations and it very own constitution. The FREE Vietnam Act prohibits Vietnam from participating in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program as long as it continues to engage in repressive behavior, denying basic human freedoms to individuals in Vietnam."We need to put Vietnam on notice that it cannot continue to violate human rights and expect preferred trade relations with the United States," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "The FREE Vietnam Act gives us the tools we need to not only send the right message to Vietnam, but also to take action against Vietnam for their continuous human rights violations."As introduced, the bill's original co-sponsors include Reps. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Susan Davis (D-CA) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA).
04.23.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement about H.R. 3523, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act of 2011 (CISPA). A vote on the bill is scheduled in the House of Representatives this week: "Our country faces a serious challenge in securing both public and private networks from a wide variety of attacks. I would support narrowly-drafted legislation that allows the government and the private sector to share information when truly necessary for cybersecurity purposes, as long as it also includes robust privacy protections. Unfortunately, CISPA as currently drafted does not meet these criteria and therefore I cannot support it in its current form. I made suggestions to improve the bill to safeguard the privacy and due process rights of all Americans. "CISPA could give the government far too much access to the online data of everyday Americans, like what websites we visit and what our emails say, as well as medical, educational, and financial records. The latest draft of this bill would allow the government to use this information for reasons other than cybersecurity. "Without any requirements to strip out personally identifiable information that companies share with the government, CISPA, creates a backdoor to a treasure trove of data, far beyond what it needs to legitimately defend against cyber threats. CISPA could also give the Department of Defense and the National Security Agency direct access to this data, rather than leaving civilian agencies in charge of protecting domestic networks. If changes are not made to this bill to protect the rights of Americans, I will not be able to vote for the bill."Click here for a more detailed list of concerns Rep. Lofgren has identified with the current CISPA bill.# # #
04.06.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement, released the following statement in response to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG) reports on Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Secure Communities program: "I am frankly disappointed in these reports from the OIG. After a long wait for the report, it is surprising to find that the OIG simply failed to provide answers to key questions. "The OIG found Secure Communities effective in finding and removing immigrants with criminal convictions. That wasn't the question. Does the program also ensnare victims and others with no criminal history? Is it susceptible to racial profiling? Does it ultimately undermine community policing efforts‹leaving us all less safe? "The OIG also fell short in its review of whether agency personnel intentionally misled government officials and the public with respect to the ability of States and localities not to participate in the program. Although the OIG does find that DHS and ICE botched up communicating with program participants by making numerous conflicting and misleading statements and ultimately failed to address the resulting confusion, we already knew that. The OIG failed to specifically address internal ICE email exchanges indicating that some of those misleading statements may have been made intentionally. The OIG doesn't say whether DHS or ICE provided misinformation through incompetence or dishonesty. That leaves me concerned about the thoroughness of this review. "After reading these reports, it still appears that fundamental changes must be made, in consultation with State and local officials, to ensure that Secure Communities advances immigration enforcement priorities without undermining public safety. Unfortunately, this lengthy review provided no meaningful information that was not already available."You can read the reports by clicking here and here.
04.02.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose, CA), released the following statement in response to the California High Speed Rail Authority's revised $64.8 billion business plan detailing the costs, financing and construction for the country's first state-wide bullet train system: "Today's revised plan is a blue print for a better, faster and cost effective 21st century transit system. By listening to the people of California, the Governor and High-Speed Rail Authority's strategy right sizes this effort, achieving high-speed rail for $30 billion less than previous cost estimates. Using a blended approach streamlines the system and ensures that the entire state will see immediate benefits. Major corridors like San Jose and San Francisco will see improvements, including electrification of the Caltrain corridor, which will help the local economy and pave the way for a one seat ride from San Francisco to L.A. "The time to build high-speed rail in California is now. Congested highways and airports cost billions each year in wasted productivity and energy‹money that could be better used growing our economy. Without high-speed rail in California, our state will need to build over 4,000 new freeway lane miles, 115 new airport gates and 4 new runways just to keep up with population growth. That short-sighted approach would cost more than twice as much as high-speed rail and would have negative impacts on our environment. This high-speed rail plan is a far reaching project and is important for San Jose, for California, and for our nation. I applaud the people of California for having the vision to make it a reality."# # #
03.28.2012	emReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) applauded the announcement that NASA will establish a National Aeronautics Research Institute (NARI) hosted at the NASA Ames Research Center to promote aeronautic innovation with $10 million in annual seed funding for early-stage concepts. As a virtual institute, NARI will use web-based technologies to solicit research, facilitate public-private partnerships, and disseminate technical findings."Those of us who live and work in Silicon Valley fully appreciate how this center and its resources can be a powerful tool for springing a good idea from the drawing board into reality," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "This new institute will help drive 21st century American aeronautics innovation to ease our crowded skies, help the environment, and boost safety.""I'm very proud that Ames has been chosen to lead NASA's new National Aeronautics Research Institute," said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo. "Once again, the vibrant work and strong leadership of Ames in the field of Aeronautics is being realized, and the innovative technologies that will flow from this Institute will strengthen our region and our country."NARI's research will be aimed at reducing air traffic congestion, mitigating environmental impacts, improving safety, and fostering innovative aircraft design through cooperative academic and public-private aeronautic research partnerships.
03.27.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced today that the Santa Clara County Housing Authority will receive a $1,193,421.00 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for housing programs assisting homeless veterans. The program is a joint effort between HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to move veterans and their families out of homelessness and into permanent housing."This funding will help care for veterans who sacrificed while serving for our country and now find themselves needing a helping hand," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "During difficult economic times, programs like this can make a world of difference for individuals and families trying to get back on their feet and rebuild their lives."The HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) program grant will be used to provide housing assistance for homeless veterans to rent privately-owned housing.
03.23.2012	emTwenty-four members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation released a letter today calling on U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, Jr., to investigate whether the murder of 17 year old Treyvon Martin "was motivated by racial bias and therefore a hate crime." In the letter, the Representatives tell Attorney General Holder: "The family of Treyvon Martin deserves to know the truth and the American people expect justice to be served."In their letter, the Representatives cite unresolved questions in the events leading up to the February 26th murder of the unarmed teenager in Sanford, Florida, by alleged murderer George Zimmerman, and the controversial actions of the Sanford Police Department in the aftermath of the shooting. The Representatives expressed support for the announced Department of Justice investigation of Treyvon Martin's murder, saying:"It is in the best interest of our constituents and the country that you conduct a thorough investigation that also determines whether this was motivated by racial bias and therefore a hate crime...History has shown that investigating these crimes and enforcing our laws against them bring the issue to light and help our society progress."Click here to link to the letter, which was signed by the following Representatives (in alphabetical order): Karen Bass; Xavier Becerra; Judy Chu; Anna G. Eshoo; Sam Farr; Bob Filner; John Garamendi; Janice Hahn; Mike Honda; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Jerry McNerney; George Miller; Grace Napolitano; Laura Richardson; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Jackie Speier; Pete Stark; Mike Thompson; Maxine Waters; Lynn Woolsey.
03.14.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, called upon House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) to take up and pass the bipartisan $109 billion Senate highway bill approved earlier today. Rep. Lofgren said that swift action by the Republican-controlled House is needed before the current transportation program expires at the end of the month."If House Republicans can't pass a bipartisan transportation bill they will be responsible for killing jobs across our state and letting our infrastructure crumble," said Rep. Lofgren. "Without action highway trust funding will stop, infrastructure contracts will have to be halted and up to 1.8 million Americans could find themselves unemployed. Passing the Senate's bipartisan bill would bring $7.5 billion in job-creating transportation funding to California, rebuilding our infrastructure and economy in the process."Rep. Lofgren has led the California Democratic Congressional Delegation in opposing H.R. 7, the House Republican backed transportation bill. That partisan bill would hurt California's economy by cutting $724.5 million in transit funding, blocking high-speed rail development and allowing oil drilling off the state's shoreline. The two-year, $109 billion transportation funding measure passed the Senate by a vote of 74-22 and enjoys broad support by business and labor groups.Click here to link to the letter signed by 32 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation to Speaker Boehner opposing H.R. 7.
03.12.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today hailed the signing of a $900 million multi-year full funding grant agreement for the BART Silicon Valley Project—Berryessa Extension between the Federal Transit Administration and the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority. Congresswoman Lofgren, a key supporter of the project who took part in the ceremony at the San Jose City Hall Rotunda, also touted the release of the first $100 million in funding announced today under the agreement."This $900 million agreement is an important milestone in connecting San Francisco to San Jose through regional public transit," said Rep. Lofgren. "Today we celebrate the culmination of a lot of hard work to bring the Silicon Valley Project BART extension into reality. This project has been many years in the making, and when completed, it will provide the Bay Area with improved public transportation and economic benefits for decades to come."The BART to Silicon Valley project is a multi-phase extension of the existing BART system to San Jose, Milpitas and Santa Clara. The first phase, expected to create 1,600 direct project-specific jobs, is the $2.1 billion Berryessa Extension, a 10-mile, two station project beginning south of the future Warm Springs Station in Freemont through Milpitas and ending in the Berryessa area north of San Jose. Congresswoman Lofgren said President Obama's proposed fiscal year 2013 budget request includes $150 million towards the $900 million multi-year full funding grant agreement.Click here to view a letter from Secretary Ray LaHood responding to Rep. Lofgren's support for the Berryessa extension.
02.27.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren, chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, released a letter signed by 116 Members of Congress to Ed DeMarco, Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), calling for mortgage principal write-down relief for underwater homeowners. With support for swift action building, the Members of Congress told DeMarco, "Your unilateral decision to block all forms of principal write-down has prevented the housing market from recovering more quickly."For several years, economists and experts on the housing and securities markets have called for targeted write-downs in the balances of mortgage principal owed by some underwater homeowners. On January 6th William Dudley, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, called on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to implement several different types of principal reductions. Mark Zandi, Chief Economist at Moody's Analytics, said at a February 9th Senate Banking Committee hearing that encouraging more principal reductions offers "the best odds of ending the housing crash more quickly and definitively." Many other leading authorities have made similar statements, including Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve; Martin Feldstein, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Reagan; and Alan Blinder, former Vice Chairman of the Federal Reserve.However, FHFA Acting Director DeMarco has refused to allow Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to write down the principal balances of any underwater mortgages, even in cases where it can be demonstrated that doing so would yield the greatest long-term savings for taxpayers. The Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) under his conservatorship own or guarantee approximately sixty percent of the outstanding residential mortgages in the United States, including nearly three million underwater loans.In the letter, the 116 Representatives urged FHFA Acting Director DeMarco to act: "Our country faces a national foreclosure crisis. The American people expect government officials, whether elected or part of the civil service, to solve the complex problems that our nation confronts. We therefore urge you to harness your agency's powers, resources, and financial expertise to prevent more foreclosures and reduce negative equity."The letter can be viewed by clicking here.
02.24.2012	emToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren applauded the award of a more than $3 million HIV/AIDS prevention grant by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to the Santa Clara County Department of Public Health. The grant will fund critical core medical services such as early intervention, outpatient health services, drug assistance programs, and home health care. The grant will also support preventative programs and specialized health and support services for children and women with HIV/AIDS."These services are invaluable to help Santa Clara County people living with HIV/AIDS who might otherwise suffer without the basic health care they need," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "As healthcare costs continue to increase, I am hopeful that this funding will help provide medical care to the victims of this horrible epidemic."The grants are designed to provide HIV/AIDS health care and support to those who have little to no health insurance. The funding will cover basic services such as physician visits, assistance in obtaining medications, home-based and hospice care, substance abuse and mental health services, and other related services.
02.23.2012	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), along with Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell), today awarded the Congressional Gold Medal‹the nation's highest civilian award‹to 147 veterans of the U.S. Army's 100th Infantry Battalion, the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, and the Military Intelligence Service. In addition to the veterans' acts of bravery, the Congressional Gold Medal honors their dedicated and courageous service to the United States in the face of injustice as Americans of Japanese descent interned in relocation camps following the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor. "These brave Americans, faced with the injustice of being imprisoned because of their Japanese ancestry, answered discrimination with courageous service and valor for their country," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Today, a grateful nation has the opportunity to honor and thank these veterans with the highest civilian award bestowed by the United States. Let it serve to remind us of the sacrifices they made to protect our freedom, and to be proud of their heroism which not only helped save America in World War II but also broke down barriers of prejudice, making our country a 'more perfect union'." The Congressional Gold Medal, bestowed by Congress, is the highest civilian award for an individual or unit who performs an outstanding deed or act of service for the security, prosperity, and national interest of the United States. The first recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal was George Washington in 1776, and the 145 individuals and units honored since include the Tuskegee Airmen, the Navaho Codetalkers, Thomas Edison, Charles Lindbergh and the Wright Brothers. Today's ceremony in San Jose's Japantown was held for veterans and family members unable to attend the November 2, 2011 ceremony in Washington, DC.
02.14.2012	emToday members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Rep. John Mica, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, opposing H.R. 7, the American Energy and Infrastructure Act. The letter, signed by 32 members of the delegation, warns the bill "will hurt California's fragile economy" by cutting highway funding, blocking high-speed rail development and allowing oil drilling off the state's shoreline.Among the proposals H.R. 7 makes which will hurt Californians, job creation and economic growth:Cuts $724.5 million over 5 years to highway, transit and rail investments in California.Delays until the year 2020 safety measures designed to automatically prevent train collisions and derailment required in the wake of the catastrophic 2008 Southern California Metrolink accident, including on rail lines upon which toxic hazardous materials are transported.Imposes a 25% cut to Amtrak, which will impact California since it is home to 3 of the top 5 busiest corridors in the U.S.Opens up off shore oil and shale drilling, putting California's shoreline and economy at risk by disingenuously claiming it will fund transportation needs, despite a National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) estimate the move will likely only produce 1% of the funding projected.Prohibits any funds for developing high-speed rail in California, despite major ongoing investments including a voter approved $9 billion bond. With travel on California interstates increasing five times faster than capacity, killing the project would cost $114 billion over the next 20 years for 2,300 new miles of highway, 115 additional airport gates, and 4 new airport runways to make up the lost capacity.Click here to link to the letter.
02.09.2012	emToday 29 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to the $25 billion multi-state housing settlement announcement:"The settlement announced today is a step forward. Attorney General Harris fought hard to ensure that Californian homeowners would receive significant relief‹a minimum of $12 billion to rebuild home equity, half of all the money in the settlement will come to California. We are also pleased that the agreement includes extensive mechanisms to hold the banks to their commitments.""However, as President Obama, Attorney General Harris and others have noted, this is not a complete solution to the foreclosure crisis in California. In fact, only a minority of California homeowners are eligible for this relief, which is limited to mortgages owned by the five banks involved in the settlement. Sixty-percent of California mortgages are held by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and that is why we have consistently called for FHFA Acting Director Edward DeMarco to offer principal reductions for these loans. The Federal Reserve and leading economists agree that principal reductions offer the best hope for stabilizing the housing market and minimizing creditor losses from foreclosures. In light of the commitments to principal reductions made by the banks in today's settlement, it is clear that Acting Director DeMarco's obstinance against principal reductions is misguided and untenable."This statement is from the following Representatives: Joe Baca; Karen Bass; Xavier Becerra; Howard Berman; Lois Capps; Judy Chu; Susan Davis; Anna G. Eshoo; Sam Farr; Bob Filner; John Garamendi; Janice Hahn; Mike Honda; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Jerry McNerney; George Miller; Grace Napolitano; Laura Richardson; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Jackie Speier; Pete Stark; Mike Thompson; Maxine Waters; Henry Waxman; Lynn Woolsey
02.07.2012	emToday Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, released the following statement in response to the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that Proposition 8‹the 2008 ballot measure limiting marriage between a man and a woman‹violated the U.S. Constitution:"There is no doubt today's decision is welcomed by Californians whose dreams of marriage were put on hold by this unconstitutional ban," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "But with the architects of Prop 8 vowing an appeal to the Supreme Court, we know the battle for marriage equality is not over. This is a fundamental American civil right, and I am committed to standing with those fighting to make marriage equality a reality."
02.02.2012	emRep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), members of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced legislation today to preserve consumer choice, reduce insurer and driver costs and improve competition in the market for replacement automotive parts.The Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade, and Sales (PARTS) Act, will place a two-and-a-half year cap on the period of exclusivity for U.S. design patents on auto parts as it relates to alternatively supplied repair parts. Under the PARTS Act the time period would commence as soon as a particular car model (containing a design-patented part) is introduced anywhere in the world. During the 30-month period, alternative manufacturers and distributors could manufacture, test, market and distribute parts pre-sale without infringing upon the design patents.Auto manufacturers currently retain a 14-year period of exclusivity for U.S. design patents on collision repair parts, which limits competition and choice while adding costs to insurers and consumers. The average vehicle lifecycle is 10.8 years, a period far less than the current 14-year protection period. The current environment has led to less choice in parts and higher costs for consumers, automotive repair technicians and insurance companies."Competition is the hallmark of our free market system," Rep. Issa said. "Consumers have dozens of choices in consumer electronics, food, services, clothing and other products‹this same array of choices, across all price points, should also extend to automotive repair parts."This is not the time to raise repair costs for Americans depending on their cars so they can get their kids to school and drive to work," Rep. Lofgren said. "We need a balanced approach, and this bipartisan bill encourages competition for an innovative, quality auto parts market at the best price for consumers."
02.01.2012	emToday 30 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to President Obama's housing proposal announcement:"It's encouraging the President is acting on our calls to help homeowners refinance and rebuild equity in their homes, but the reality is many of these initiatives require Congressional action. It's no secret that Republican leaders have opposed housing proposals helping responsible homeowners, which is why we call upon FHFA to embrace the principal paydown plan we have repeatedly offered for underwater homeowners facing the greatest risk of foreclosure."Additionally, we renew our call for the President to appoint a new FHFA Director committed to tackling the housing crisis. Sadly, Acting Director DeMarco's track record has proven his unwillingness to act in the best interest of homeowners and our economy, to the detriment of communities everywhere and our country's recovery."With a foreclosure rate twice the national average, Californians know our economy will never fully recover until we have a plan that brings relief to homeowners and neighborhoods, and that starts with putting a capable and committed leader at the helm of the FHFA."This statement is from the following Representatives: Joe Baca; Xavier Becerra; Howard Berman; Lois Capps; Dennis Cardoza; Judy Chu; Jim Costa; Susan Davis; Anna G. Eshoo; Sam Farr; Bob Filner; John Garamendi; Janice Hahn; Mike Honda; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Jerry McNerney; George Miller; Grace Napolitano; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Adam Schiff; Jackie Speier; Pete Stark; Mike Thompson; Maxine Waters; Henry Waxman; and Lynn Woolsey.
02.01.2012	emToday 17 women members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to the Susan G. Komen Foundation's decision to bar Planned Parenthood from receiving grants:"As the largest number of women legislators in Congress, we have come together to express our concern and displeasure over Susan G. Komen's decision. Caving to a Congressional right-wing witch hunt won't just hurt Planned Parenthood, it sets back women's health. Funding from Susan G. Komen has allowed Planned Parenthood to provide nearly 170,000 clinical breast exams in the past five years as well as more than 6,400 mammogram referrals. One in five women in America has gone to Planned Parenthood at some point in her life, and as science has shown, early detection is the key to survival. For the sake of women's health we sincerely hope that Komen will reconsider their decision, and until then, we do not plan to work with the national foundation."This statement is from the following Representatives: Karen Bass; Lois Capps; Judy Chu; Susan Davis; Anna G. Eshoo; Janice Hahn; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Grace Napolitano; Laura Richardson; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Jackie Speier; Maxine Waters; and Lynn Woolsey
02.01.2012	emToday 30 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), released the following statement in response to President Obama's housing proposal announcement:"It's encouraging the President is acting on our calls to help homeowners refinance and rebuild equity in their homes, but the reality is many of these initiatives require Congressional action. It's no secret that Republican leaders have opposed housing proposals helping responsible homeowners, which is why we call upon FHFA to embrace the principal paydown plan we have repeatedly offered for underwater homeowners facing the greatest risk of foreclosure."Additionally, we renew our call for the President to appoint a new FHFA Director committed to tackling the housing crisis. Sadly, Acting Director DeMarco's track record has proven his unwillingness to act in the best interest of homeowners and our economy, to the detriment of communities everywhere and our country's recovery."With a foreclosure rate twice the national average, Californians know our economy will never fully recover until we have a plan that brings relief to homeowners and neighborhoods, and that starts with putting a capable and committed leader at the helm of the FHFA."This statement is from the following Representatives: Joe Baca; Xavier Becerra; Howard Berman; Lois Capps; Dennis Cardoza; Judy Chu; Jim Costa; Susan Davis; Anna G. Eshoo; Sam Farr; Bob Filner; John Garamendi; Janice Hahn; Mike Honda; Barbara Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Doris Matsui; Jerry McNerney; George Miller; Grace Napolitano; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Linda Sanchez; Loretta Sanchez; Adam Schiff; Jackie Speier; Pete Stark; Mike Thompson; Maxine Waters; Henry Waxman; and Lynn Woolsey.
01.31.2012	emToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), the ranking member on the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee, commented on President Obama's Startup America legislative agenda, particularly the proposed changes to U.S. immigration policy aimed at attracting highly-skilled, job-creating entrepreneurs in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields."As a representative from Silicon Valley, I'm pleased the President is embracing policies I have championed to keep our country innovative and competitive, spurring new businesses that create jobs in the decades to come," Rep. Zoe Lofgren said. "After all, household names like Intel, Google, Yahoo and eBay were all founded by innovative immigrants who came to Silicon Valley willing to take a risk and build their dreams, and in the process they grew our economy and created tens of thousands of jobs for their fellow Americans."Just as in Rep. Lofgren's Immigration Driving Entrepreneurship in America (IDEA) Act of 2011, the policies announced by President Obama today will encourage masters and doctorate STEM field degree holders to establish new start-up businesses that create jobs for American workers. In addition to authoring the IDEA Act, Rep. Lofgren has held hearings and introduced legislation aimed specifically at fixing the broken immigration system:Legislation:H.R. 6039 (110th Congress) — Bill to provide green cards to students who have master's or PhDs from US universities in STEM fields.H.R. 5921 (110th Congress) — "High Skilled Per Country Level Elimination Act," to shorten green card backlogs for certain high-skilled immigrants in the United States.H.R. 5882 (110th Congress) — To recapture employment-based immigrant visas lost to bureaucratic delays and to prevent losses of family- and employment-based immigrant visas in the future.H.R. 3119 (112th Congress) — "Protecting American Families and Businesses Act of 2011," to shorten green card backlogs for certain high-skilled immigrants in the US, and to make it easier for foreign STEM students to obtain green cards.H.R. 2161 (112th Congress) — Immigrants Driving Entrepreneurship in America (IDEA) Act of 2011.Hearings:June 12, 2008 hearing on "Green Cards for Highly Skilled Workers"September 30, 2010 hearing on "The Role of Immigration in Strengthening America's Economy"
01.30.2012	emRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) held a workshop today at San Jose City Hall to help local businesses learn how they can compete for federal contracting opportunities in the $537 billion federal marketplace. Lofgren was joined by officials from the General Services Administration (GSA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA), who discussed tools and resources available to help entrepreneurs enter the federal contracting sector.The U.S. government is the world's largest single purchaser of goods and services, and the size of the federal marketplace has doubled in the last decade. However, selling products and services to the government can be difficult and frustrating, especially for firms new to contracting, and today's workshop offered valuable insights and tools to the participating San Jose businesses. Two local businesses, LumEnergi and SunWize, shared their experiences navigating the procurement process and touted the benefits of sub-contracting with seasoned firms as a way entrepreneurs can gain experience while also growing their enterprises."It should not come as a surprise that Silicon Valley businesses of all sizes and fields, ranging from leading high tech companies to construction firms and food vendors, provided more than $5.5 billion in services to the government in 2010," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "But I want to see more opportunities for our local businesses to compete in the federal marketplace. By making sure businesses have the tools they need to compete, I am hopeful today's workshop will help these local entrepreneurs go after opportunities to grow their businesses and create new jobs in our community."To view presentations from Rep. Lofgren's federal contracting opportunities workshop, please select from the following links:Please click here for the presentation by Ruth Cox, Regional Administrator of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA).Please click here for the presentation by SuNWize Technologies Inc.Please click here for the presentation by Lumenergi.Please click here for a program of the workshop's event and panelists.
01.24.2012	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's State of the Union address: "Tonight the President clearly laid out how Democrats are committed to rebuilding America's middle class, but our recovery will continue to drag if the ongoing housing crisis is not addressed aggressively. With a foreclosure rate twice the national average, Californians know we need a plan that brings relief to homeowners and neighborhoods so that our economy can fully recover. For families who have seen tuition rates skyrocket 21 percent in California over the past year, we also need a strong commitment to make higher education affordable as part of the American Dream. For Silicon Valley this is especially important to keep our economy entrepreneurial, innovative and competitive in the global marketplace in the years to come."
01.20.2012	Rep. Lofgren issued the following statement in response to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's (D-NV) decision to postpone consideration of the Protect IP Act and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith's (R-TX) announcement to delay action on SOPA:"Things changed in Washington this week when millions of Americans raised their voices to keep the internet free from censorship. Somewhere in China, thanks to software created in America to avoid the suppression of speech on the Internet, people are watching how a real democracy can work when everyone's voice is heard.Now that the deeply flawed SOPA and PIPA have been taken off the table, there's a new opportunity to address the problem of misappropriation of protected creative work in a better way. Americans who took the time to raise their voices should be happy to know that they have been listened to.Congratulations to all of those who spoke on these important issues."
01.19.2012	Twenty-seven members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, today sent a letter to President Obama requesting more aggressive action to prevent foreclosures and resuscitate the ailing housing market."For over a year-and-a-half, we've corresponded with the President and met with Secretaries Donovan and Geithner and FHFA Acting Director DeMarco, urging swift and immediate action to help our constituents. There still seems to be no bold or effective action taken by the Administration. We have asked to meet with the President as soon as possible to discuss ways to advance meaningful relief and effective solutions for the housing market," said Lofgren.Click here to read the full letter.
01.18.2012	Rep. Lofgren issued the following statement today regarding the official introduction of H.R. 3782, the Online Protection & Enforcement of Digital Trade (OPEN) Act in the House of Representatives. She joined bill author Darrell Issa (R-CA) and 23 other bipartisan original cosponsors on this measure to fight online piracy."Congress doesn't have to censor the Internet or restrain innovation in order to fight online piracy. The OPEN Act shows there's a better way. It relies on proven remedies‹attacking the profit motive for online infringement‹without the collateral damage to the Internet that SOPA and PIPA would cause. The OPEN Act has already benefited from a novel legislative experiment, through the solicitation of public comments and revisions at keepthewebopen.com. After the bill's introduction, I look forward to hearing additional constructive feedback and ways to incorporate it as the bill moves forward."Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) has introduced the OPEN Act in the Senate.For more information about the OPEN Act, visit KeepTheWebOpen.com
01.17.2012	Rep. Lofgren issued the following statement in conjunction with the "Stop SOPA / PIPA" opposition and education efforts occurring online today by Wikipedia, Google, Reddit, Mozilla, and Craigslist among others."It's inspiring to watch so many Internet users and creators stand up for the future of the Internet. That is precisely what's at stake in the battle over SOPA and PIPA. It's about whether the government will force users, entrepreneurs, networks, and websites to actively monitor those who use the Internet and whether merely linking to another website will be deemed illegal. In the end, it's about protecting the Internet as we know it.These issues are far too important to be left for lobbyists to sort out here in Washington, D.C. If my colleagues in Congress hear about opposition to SOPA and PIPA from their constituents, I am confident that these bills will not become law. If you care about online innovation and freedom of expression, call your Representative AND Senators today. Do not underestimate the power that you have."Click here to learn more about today's online activities and why SOPA is the wrong approach to online piracy.Click here to go directly to Zoe's homepage to see her blackout for today.
01.11.2012	The U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $3.49 million to a San Jose State University-led consortium to develop and advance public transportation research and education. The consortium members represent a diverse group of universities, including Rutgers University in New Brunswick, NJ; Howard University in Washington, DC; University of Detroit Mercy in Detroit, MI; Grand Valley State University in Allendale, MI; Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, OH; University of Toledo in Toledo, OH; University of Nevada, Las Vegas in Las Vegas, NV; and Pennsylvania State University in State College, PA.Congresswoman Lofgren led an effort, in collaboration with San Jose State University's Mineta Transportation Insititute, to secure the funding.The SJSU-led consortium will serve the public transportation industry through research, education and workforce development, and technology transfer activities. Areas of expertise include alternative fuels, safety and security, public policy, finance, workforce development, livable communities, environmental sustainability, economic competitiveness, new modes, and many other critical factors essential to sustainable mobility.Rep. Lofgren stated, "I want to congratulate San Jose State, as well as the other consortium universities, on receiving this grant funding. Transit options are critical to communities like ours in San Jose, and this investment will lead to important research to keep our public transportation systems running smoothly and safely for all.""The Mineta Transportation Institute's selection by the Secretary of Transportation to lead a nine-university national transit research consortium validates the quality of MTI's research and education programs. We look forward to helping to create a more sustainable national transportation system for America," said Rod Diridon, Executive Director Mineta Transportation Institute.Click here to view Rep. Zoe Lofgren's October 24, 2011 letter to the Department of Transportation in support of the UTC funding.
01.10.2012	Jan 10, 2012 Today, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren presented Mayor Chuck Reed with a U.S. Department of Commerce Certificate of Appreciation for Achievement in Trade at a city council meeting to recognize the City of San Jose's efforts to promote exports. This prestigious award acknowledges the City's close collaboration with the San Jose Export Assistance Center, the local office of the U.S. Commercial Service. The city has worked with the Export Assistance Center on a number of seminars, trade missions, visiting delegations and VIP visits throughout the past sixteen years. The City was instrumental in bringing the U.S. Commercial Service to San Jose in 1996 when it opened the San Jose Export Assistance Center. According to Congresswoman Lofgren, "Exports constitute an important element of the growth of San Jose's economy. We have the highest percentage of jobs created by exports, which attests to the benefits of international trade for our companies and for our City. I am pleased to recognize both Mayor Chuck Reed's office and the U.S. Commercial Service with this Certificate of Appreciation for Achievement in Trade." New data show that California merchandise exports increased 13 percent in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, growing from $104.5 billion to $117.9 billion. California's nine-month 2011 merchandise export sales outpaced the 2010 figures for the same period in many top destinations, including Mexico (up 24 percent), China (19 percent), Netherlands (17 percent), Hong Kong (16 percent), and Singapore (8 percent). For export assistance, visit the website of the San Jose Export Assistance Center at http://export.gov/california/sanjose or call (408) 535-2757 to speak with an International Trade Specialist.
01.10.2012	Twenty-eight members of the California Democratic delegation today sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he immediately make an appointment to make a permanent Director to the Federal Housing Financial Authority (FHFA). The position at the agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has been blocked by Senate Republicans for two and a half years. In November, 2011, 224,394 U.S. properties had foreclosure filings, one for every 579 units nationwide and one for every 211 units in California."For too long Republicans in the Senate have been playing games with the American people by blocking the Federal Housing Financial Authority from having a proper leader," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "These are difficult times and we need to be doing everything we can to prevent foreclosures and keep families in their homes. I would urge President Obama to take immediate action and appoint a permanent director."Click here to view the full letter.
12.21.2011	Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressiona Delegation, issued the following statement regarding the redistricting process in California:"The redistricting process in California was conducted by a Citizens Redistricting Commission, which was mandated by two voter-approved initiatives to hold all meetings in the open and make comments publicly available. Members from California, like Members throughout the country, were interested in the redistricting process and its outcome. In California, this process was conducted by a Commission paid for by state funds, with a .gov email address and whose offices are located in a state-owned facility. Members and their staff are allowed under joint Ethics and House Administration guidance to keep current on the status of redistricting. Any political conversations or activities were conducted without using official resources and on volunteer time, in compliance with the House guidance."Members, as citizens of the state of California, were well within their rights to make comments and ensure that voices from communities of interest within their neighborhoods were heard by the Commission. However, what was noteworthy was that any comments made were posted online‹out in the open. And equally important, the final product voted on by the Commission was entirely out of the hands of the Members. They, like any other Californian, were able to comment but had no control over the process, which was obvious when the deliberations of the Commission's meetings were observed."The Delegation meetings held centered on the following:-Providing information to Members on how the Citizens Redistricting Commission would conduct its work;-The schedule of Redistricting Commission hearings throughout the state;-Timely updates on what transpired at the public meetings of the Commission;-Legal questions Members raised regarding particulars on new redistricting efforts of the Commission;-Providing broad information to Members, understanding that individual district configurations were not the focus of the Delegation;-Providing Members with the new census data to bring them up to date on California's information; and-Providing Members with the legal parameters on communicating with communities of interest."At no time did the Delegation draw up a statewide map or retain legal counsel to do so."# # #________________________________________Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.16.2011	This markup is far from over, and it's already the longest markup that the House Judiciary Committee has had in quite some time. The process has been grueling, but some of the wide variety of concerns and opposition that surround this bill have now surfaced in the Committee. I've seen comments made online...on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, news websites, blogs, and keepthewebopen.com...from these posts it appears most who have heard about SOPA are opposed to it. But the posts also tell me that many people don't understand the power that they have. On my way to the markup today, I spoke with a colleague who had received a phone call from a small businessperson back home who opposed to SOPA and shared how it would affect them adversely. This caused my colleague to ask about the bill and to seek information about alternatives. If the American people want to have a say about the future of the Internet, more of these conversations need to happen. If you are opposed to SOPA, speak up. You can place a phone call to your Member of Congress' D.C. office and express your opposition. You can find your Representatives' contact info here. Members are all going home to their districts. Gather your friends and ask for a meeting in their district office. Organize. Speak up. Members of Congress face the voters of their districts they represent every other year at election time. The opinions of the people who live in the districts they represent matter to a Member of Congress a very great deal.
12.16.2011	This markup is far from over, and it's already the longest markup that the House Judiciary Committee has had in quite some time. The process has been grueling, but some of the wide variety of concerns and opposition that surround this bill have now surfaced in the Committee.I've seen comments made online...on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, news websites, blogs, and keepthewebopen.com...from these posts it appears most who have heard about SOPA are opposed to it.But the posts also tell me that many people don't understand the power that they have. On my way to the markup today, I spoke with a colleague who had received a phone call from a small businessperson back home who opposed to SOPA and shared how it would affect them adversely. This caused my colleague to ask about the bill and to seek information about alternatives. If the American people want to have a say about the future of the Internet, more of these conversations need to happen. If you are opposed to SOPA, speak up. You can place a phone call to your Member of Congress' D.C. office and express your opposition. You can find your Representatives' contact info here: https://writerep.house.gov .Members are all going home to their districts. Gather your friends and ask for a meeting in their district office. Organize. Speak up.Members of Congress face the voters of their districts they represent every other year at election time. The opinions of the people who live in the districts they represent matter to a Member of Congress a very great deal.
12.15.2011	Today Zoe is participating in the Judiciary Committee's markup of H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). It is expected that the markup will last all day Thursday and continue tomorrow, Friday. Check this page frequently as it will be updated throughout the markup with video clips of Zoe as she offers amendments in an effort to improve the bill.Watch the markup live, and comment on the bill, at KeepTheWebOPEN.com.Click here to learn why Zoe believes SOPA is the wrong approach to addressing online piracy.A couple of people sent Zoe this funny Internet meme of her. Can she be a meme? Thanks to whoever did this... - - - Videos from markup - - -1. Zoe asked that the entire SOPA bill be read into the record at the onset of the markup. The American public needs to know what is in this bill before the Committee proceeds. 2. Zoe's statement on Chairman Lamar Smith's Manager's Amendment. There's a need for copyright enforcement but there is a better way to do it without collateral damage to cybersecurity, innovation, commerce and the First Amendment.3. Why Zoe trusts the internet engineers and cybersecurity experts over paid consultants for the movie industry...4. Why Zoe opposed an amendment to give ISPs immunity for blocking entire websites.
12.13.2011	Dec. 13, 2011Rep. Zoe Lofgren supports a free and open internet while also making sure that creative Americans' ownership of digital intellectual properties is protected. That is why she supports the bipartisan, bicameral proposal OPEN: Online Protection & Enforcement of Digital Trade Act. The proposal is an alternative approach to protecting online piracy than the flawed H.R. 3261 (SOPA).To watch Zoe's video supporting OPEN click here.To learn more about #OPEN click here.To learn more about why Zoe opposes SOPA click here.
12.13.2011	Dec. 13, 2011Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about a constituent who is a victim of predatory banking practices. Darlene Bowland is a 68 year old woman fighting cancer and Wells Fargo bank. She lived alone in a modest home in San Jose, California until she was evicted a week before Thanksgiving just two weeks into her chemotherapy treatment. To get her to dismiss her lawsuit against them, Wells Fargo offered Darlene $7500 and the option of allowing her to move back into her house until December 15th, instead of until after Christmas as she requested.Darlene is just one of many victims of a World Savings loan product called a "pick-a-pay," which is designed to trap unwary homeowners into owing more than they borrowed, assuring the banks that sold them a captive audience that would need to continually refinance or face foreclosure."She owned her home free and clear at one time but was the victim of a pay loan, a way to confuse and basically steal her home," said Lofgren. "Last year, in 2010, the CEO John Stumpf earned more than $17 million in compensation. This Christmas Ms. Bowland will be couch-surfing with chemotherapy, [and] Mr. Stump will be enjoying his $17 million salary while her home in San Jose stays vacant. Merry Christmas from Wells Fargo."Read the full letter Rep. Lofgren sent to Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf here.
12.07.2011	Dec. 7, 2011— Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren spoke on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 1254, the Synthetic Drug Control Act, over concerns that the bill would have negative effects on scientific research."When a [substance] is placed on Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act it becomes difficult to obtain, not only for illegal purposes, but for researchers who wish to study its pharmaceutical and medical potential," Lofgren said. "Congress has established procedure for scheduling drugs, and it requires a scientific and medical evaluation. This bill would bypass that process."Lofgren cites statements from university faculty about the impact of the passage of H.R. 1254:"The bill is an irrational simplistic response to a social problem of great complexity. As such, the world will get significantly less medical and technical help with a low probability of helping anyone with a substance abuse issue." — Warren Heideman, Ph.D., Professor, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Associate Dean of Research, School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin-Madison"While we support restrictions on the sale of these chemicals for purposes of illicit use (such as internet or head shop sales of bath salts), scheduling so as to impede access to precursor chemicals in small quantities has the potential to seriously hamper medical research." — Neal L. Benowitz, MD, Professor of Medicine and Bioengineering & Therapeutic Sciences, Chief, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco"This effort is well intentioned but it will cause more problems than it solves." — John Arnold, Faculty Director, Berkeley Center for Green Chemistry
12.06.2011	Rep. Zoe Lofgren is proud to announce that San Jose's SolarTech received a merit award of $499,899 from the Department of Energy in the Rooftop Solar Challenge. The goal of the national competition was to drive significant reductions in the administrative costs for photovoltaic (PV) systems. SolarTech will use their award for the creation of "Early Adopter" pilot communities and the development of tools and model ordinances. "SolarTech is doing innovative work to help make clean and cost-effective solar energy more readily accessible to our residents," Lofgren said. "It's great to have San Jose companies be on the cutting edge of renewable energy sources and this grant confirms that our own SolarTech is a leader in this important industry."
12.02.2011	Today Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Jared Polis (CO-02) released the following statements regarding the legislative framework they developed with House and Senate colleagues to address the problem of copyright and trademark infringement perpetrated by websites operating outside the United States. The bipartisan group authored the draft as an alternative to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). SOPA has been widely criticized for the harm it could do to legitimate online commerce and innovation, free speech, cyber security, and the technical infrastructure of the Internet.The draft framework - "Fighting the Unauthorized Trade of Digital Goods While Protecting Internet Security, Commerce and Speech" - is authored by U.S. Senators Cantwell, Moran, Warner and Wyden and U.S. Representatives Chaffetz, Campbell, Doggett, Eshoo, Issa, Lofgren and Polis. To read the draft, please click here.Rep. Anna Eshoo: "Rogue websites and the pirates behind them represent the hijacking of American genius, and must be stopped. But the Stop Online Piracy Act's overly broad language will seriously hinder the growth of new businesses, new investments, and new jobs. The economic opportunities and innovation created by the Internet and start-ups could be crushed under the weight of SOPA. That's why I hope that the discussion draft released yesterday serves as a good starting point for future discussions on how to best protect U.S. intellectual property rights."Rep. Zoe Lofgren: "This bipartisan alternative is offered as a serious step toward building meaningful consensus to curb online piracy, which is a real and legitimate concern for me and my colleagues. The strength of this alternative is that it focuses on remedies that are proven to work without doing unnecessary collateral damage."Rep. Jared Polis: "The most effective way to combat online piracy is by treating piracy as the foreign trade issue it is. Governments controlling the Internet, as China has done, whether it is done under the pretense of restricting speech or rights infringement, is not a direction that the United States should encourage. We can and must protect the Internet, promote job creation and continue fostering the most entrepreneurial sector of the U.S. economy by going after the money that supports these illicit activities without harming legitimate websites and the breathtaking architecture of the Internet itself."Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Polis previously sent a letter along with a group of bipartisan Members to Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith and Ranking Member John Conyers, expressing their opposition to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). They expressed concern that the legislation would give the government broad new authority to order Internet Service Providers to implement various filtering technologies on their networks and create new forms of private legal action against websites.In that letter, the Members wrote: "At a time of continued economic uncertainty, this legislation will result in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments, and fewer new jobs. 'Rogue websites' are no doubt a serious problem and we fully support targeted measures to shut them down. Like you, we understand the importance of combating piracy to protect the intellectual property of the American entertainment industry from copyright infringement in other parts of the world. We believe this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The SOPA as written, however, is overly broad and would cause serious and long term damage to the technology industry, one of the few bright spots in our economy. We hope you will work with the technology community to find narrow and targeted remedies against online infringers. We also stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to find a solution that protects innovation, while combating against truly 'rogue' websites." The full letter by the bipartisan group of Members can be found here.* * *For more information about why Rep. Lofgren believes SOPA is the wrong approach to prevent online piracy, visit the Stop SOPA clearinghouse: click here.
12.01.2011	I rise in opposition to H.R. 3463. Instead of focusing on jobs and helping working class families, the Republican Leadership is hard at work today creating additional ways in which corporations and special interests can dominate our elections process. Presidential Election Campaign FundEnding the Presidential Election Campaign Fund opens the door for large political spenders to enjoy an even greater role in the funding of political campaigns.The voluntary public finance system for presidential campaigns was created in the early 1970's as a direct result of Watergate - the largest political scandal of our generation. Stopping corruption and preventing the appearance of corruption is as important today as it was during the Nixon years. The level of spending by corporations and special interests since the Supreme Court's decision in the Citizens United case should give every American a reason for concern. Do my Republican colleagues really believe that more corporate and special interest money in politics is going to benefit in any way the 99% of Americans who don't have lobbyists?The current public finance system for presidential elections does have some problems. Most notably, the money available for candidates opting into public financing funding has been outpaced by the cost of running amodern campaign. However, instead of eliminating public financing of presidential campaigns, we should instead try to modernize and fix the system. I would also point out that the Republican National Committee recently received $18 million dollars from the same fund that Republicans are proposing to eliminate today. If these funds are so objectionable to my colleagues, perhaps they should ask the RNC to return this money. Election Assistance CommissionI also oppose the elimination of the Election Assistance Commission.The EAC is the only federal agency solely focused on improving the administration of federal elections. The EAC develops voluntary electionmanagement standards and is a voting information clearing house for local election officials and voters. The EAC was created after the debacle of the 2000 presidential elections. Those of us who were here in 2000 remember how politically tense those weeks were. Over 100 million votes were cast, but it took a decision of the Supreme Court before a winner was declared. That experience left a black eye on our elections process and it is not something America should go through again. With state and local government budgets facing record deficits, less money is being allocated for the administering of elections. States and local governments are depending on the work of the EAC now more than ever.Have there been problems at EAC? Yes, there has. Is change needed at theEAC? Yes, there should be. The solution should be reforming EAC and exercising rigorous oversight of this commission to make sure its mission is being fulfilled. We should not give up on ensuring the integrity of federal elections andimproving voter access at the polls. Too much is at stake here.I urge my colleagues to vote NO on H.R. 3463.Let's focus on jobs and fixing our economy instead of passing bills thatgive corporations and special interests even greater influence in our elections.
11.29.2011	M. Speaker, this country hasneeded to eliminate the "per country" limits for employment-based immigrants,and increase those for family-based immigrants, for a very long time.Although these are relativelysmall fixes, and a great deal more needs to be done, these fixes represent abalanced approach to addressing some of the long-standing problems in ourbroken immigration system. And they are the right thing to do. We all know that ourimmigration system is severely broken, and it has been broken fordecades. At the heart of this broken system are the outdated employment-and family-based immigration systems, which suffer under decades-longbacklogs. In combination with the per country limits, these backlogs keepnuclear families apart for decades, while preventing U.S. employers fromaccessing and retaining the employees they need to stay competitive.H.R. 3012 begins to addressthese problems by eliminating the employment-based per-country limits andadjusting the family-based per-country limits to make the system fairer forpeople caught in the backlogs. This is a good step that will lead to moreequitable outcomes. But I must note that until wedo something about the backlogs themselves, we will continue to have adysfunctional system. This bill will help certain Indian nationals, whonow face a wait of 70 years to get green cards. But because the bill doesnot address the scope of the backlogs, it will increase the wait time for manyothers. Under this bill, everyone seeking an employment-based thirdpreference green card will have to wait 12 years. That may be moreequitable, but it doesn't fix the underlying problem.In any event, the bill makesthe system fairer, and that is why I support it. I just hope that we cancome together, as we have done today, to fix other areas of our immigrationlaw.Hopefully, this type ofbalanced legislation, in combination with true cooperation across the aisle,can serve as a model for addressing other areas of our broken immigrationsystem. This country desperately needs that we try.I thank the author of thebill, Jason Chaffetz, as well as Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith andRanking Member John Conyers, for working with me on this bill and addressingsome of my concerns. I urge my colleagues tosupport the bill.
11.17.2011	November 17, 2011Today Rep. Zoe Lofgren released a letter from Dr. Leonard Napolitano, the Director of the Sandia National Laboratories’ Center for Computer Sciences and Information Technologies and a world renown cybersecurity expert. The letter reports that the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) would “negatively impact U.S. and global cybersecurity and Internet functionality.” Dr. Napolitano’s letter was in response to a request from Rep. Lofgren that the Sandia Labs do a technical assessment of H.R. 3261, SOPA, and S. 968, the PROTECT IP. The letter also says that neither bill would be effective at controlling piracy and would delay implementation of DNSSEC Internet security regime. Sandia National Labs is funded by the Department of Defense and Department of Energy. Its mission, which includes both classified and unclassified research, includes nuclear weapons and energy, defense systems and assessments, homeland security and infrastructure. “This analysis from one of our nation’s top cybersecurity experts is the definitive word that this legislation would undermine Internet security efforts and would harm the Internet. Dr. Napolitano and his team are tasked with securing our cyber infrastructure. Their assessment as experts at our national lab gives us the final answer as to whether these bills would endanger our security. They would.” Click here for a full copy of the Sandia Labs letter. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.16.2011	November 16, 2001Today the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). Since Rep. Zoe Lofgren was not permitted to deliver her opening statement at the hearing, it appears below in full. Congresswoman Zoe LofgrenOpening Statement for the RecordCommittee on the JudiciaryHearing on H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy ActNovember 16, 2011 The matter before us today is enormously important. H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act, would reshape our country’s legal framework for online innovation and commerce, and perhaps the technical structure of the global Internet as well. Unfortunately, the panel of witnesses convened for this hearing is severely inadequate. Civil libertarians and law professors have said this bill is inconsistent with the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Network engineers and security experts have said that the bill could imperil cybersecurity and the technical infrastructure of the Internet. Consumer groups have expressed worries that the bill could raise the prices we pay for goods online. Human rights advocates have said that the bill could legitimize Internet censorship by repressive regimes around the world. Libraries and educational institutions have expressed concern that they could face new criminal and civil liability for innocent conduct. Venture capitalists and technology entrepreneurs have said that H.R. 3261 could stifle investment in legitimate Internet businesses and online services. None of these voices are represented at our hearing today. Members will not have the opportunity to explore any of these concerns in detail. In their place, a single Internet company—Google—was invited to testify, on a panel with five other witnesses testifying in defense of H.R. 3261. Infringing material exists on the Internet. Some websites exist that flagrantly violate copyright and trademark law. The question is what to do about it. No one should conflate opposition to this legislation with a disregard for the protection of intellectual property. Yet this is precisely what many of this bill’s proponents are doing, in an attempt to discredit substantive criticisms. H.R. 3261 is deeply flawed in many ways. I will highlight just a few: •Section 102 creates an open-ended technical mandate on Internet service providers (ISPs) to block their users from accessing blacklisted websites. Unlike S. 968, the PROTECT IP Act, this mandate is not limited to domain filtering. Instead, the government may apply for a court order to impose any filtering measure upon ISPs, so long as it is deemed “technically feasible and reasonable.” Does this include the blocking Internet Protocol addresses? Deep packet inspection? New filtering technologies as they are invented? The bill does not say. •Section 103 overturns critical safeguards in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for cloud computing and any website that provides a platform for user-generated content. This includes everything from photo and video sharing to social networking, blogging, and beyond. Under Section 103, such websites will face a new legal risk that they will be terminated by their payment and advertising providers, based on an accusation that they are dedicated “to the theft of U.S. property.” This charge could be based upon infringement committed by a website’s users, and the DMCA safe harbor in 17 U.S.C. 512(c) cannot be used as a defense. • Section 103 also allows a “portion of” a website to be deemed “dedicated to the theft of U.S. property,” regardless of the culpability of the website as a whole. Like many important terms throughout H.R. 3261, the precise meaning of these words is ambiguous, and will require years of expensive litigation to clarify. However, the plain meaning of the words seems to indicate that any large website could face a risk of termination by payment and advertising providers based solely upon infringing material contained in a single web page. •Under Section 103, any website, foreign or domestic, can be declared “dedicated to theft of U.S. property” if it takes “deliberate actions to avoid confirming a high probability of the use” of the site to carry out infringement. This appears to create a new basis for infringement liability in U.S. copyright law, which will take years and perhaps decades of difficult litigation to sort out. It also may impose a duty upon websites to monitor all user-generated content on their sites, in order to guard against a risk that their failure to do so would be construed as an act of “willful blindness.” For many legitimate websites, active monitoring is simply not feasible, given the enormous volume of content uploaded by their users during every hour of the day. Let me also add that the domain filtering scheme envisioned by H.R. 3261 will not be effective. Anyone determined to reach a blocked site may do so easily, merely by typing in the website’s IP address into the navigation of their browser bar, instead of the site’s domain name. Any ten year old could do it. Under this bill, the United States would construct an unprecedented Internet filtering scheme to block foreign websites. This is likely to have major costs and unintended consequences, while doing little to achieve the laudable goal of reducing online piracy. I agree with the goal of fighting online copyright infringement. Narrowly targeted legislation that does not ensnare legitimate websites or undermine the Internet’s technical and security infrastructure should be pursued. In particular, I believe that new remedies could deprive criminal websites of the revenues that motivate and enable their very existence, without doing unnecessary collateral damage. I also believe that a consensus on this issue between the content and technology industries is achievable. Unfortunately, H.R. 3261 is a draconian and one-sided approach that pushes us much farther away from such a consensus, instead of building towards it.Additional comments by Congresswoman Zoe LofgrenMade during Hearing on H.R. 3126, the Stop Online Piracy ActCommittee on the JudiciaryNovember 16, 2011 Many here in the room today want to write off the many serious criticisms of the Stop Online Piracy Act. We've heard that they are nothing more than hyperbole. And we've also been told that they are all motivated by profit. That is simply not the case. •Big technology companies weren't the ones who said that this bill could cause the United States to “lose its position as a global leader in supporting a free and open Internet.” That's from dozens of human rights groups around the world. •Big technology companies weren't the ones who wrote that the bill “has the potential to do consumers more harm than good.” That's from Consumers Union and other non-profit consumer groups. •Big technology companies didn’t write that the bill “is in conflict with the First Amendment.” That’s from the American Civil Liberties Union. Over 100 law professors agree. •Big technology companies didn’t write that the bill will “kill our best hope for securing the Internet.” That's from Stewart Baker, former Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Homeland Security and former General Counsel at the National Security Agency. •It was dozens of venture capitalists—not the big technology companies—who wrote that the bill "will stifle investment in Internet services, throttle innovation, and hurt American competitiveness." Based on the rhetoric we’ve heard today, one would think that it was the policy of this committee to dismiss the views of those in the industries we are regulating. These are only a few of many similar examples. I understand why the cosponsors of this legislation are angry about facing such widespread criticism. But it is a mistake to focus on impugning of motives of the bill's critics, rather than engaging in the substance of the criticism. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.07.2011	November 7, 2011Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren applauded an $800,000 grant to YouthBuild/San Jose Conservation Corps from the Start Making a Real Transformation (SMART) program of YouthBuild USA. This grant will help up to 60 young people, 16-24 years of age, earn their high school diploma or GED while building affordable homes for low-income families. The program also teaches valuable construction and trade skills to those in the program. “This grant is an investment in our country’s future,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “We are giving these young Americans the skills they’ll need to stand on their own while at the same time helping our country grow. This program follows the old adage that it’s best to teach a man to fish than to give him fish.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.03.2011	November 3, 2011Today, a bipartisan group of members of Congress from California sent a letter to the Director of the Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) calling for the opening of a satellite office in California. In 2010, California generated 30,080 patents, representing 25% percent of all patents granted in the United States, and over four times more than any other state. Full text of letter:November 2, 2011 Director David KapposUSPTO Headquarters - Main Campus AddressMadison Buildings (East & West)600 Dulany StreetAlexandria, VA 22314Dear Director David Kappos:We are writing today as a bi-partisan group of Members from California to urge that you consider our state as the next home for a satellite patent and trademark office. California serves as a strategic location for a United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) satellite office with its leadership in the development and receipt of patents. In 2010, California received 30,080 patents, representing 25% percent of all patents granted in the United States. California's patent production stands well above the pack. For comparison, the second highest patent recipient New York received 8,095 patents, which represents roughly a quarter of the total granted in California. We are hopeful that having a satellite office in California will make it easier and less expensive for the state’s inventors to go through the patent application process. Additionally, our state's economy is built on a deep foundation of top R&D universities and labs that encourages a strong and vibrant entrepreneurial spirit. California is home to a density of leading high tech and biotech companies and remains the venture capital leader of the nation. In addition, the roughly 500,000 patents granted to California recipients over the last few decades alone justifies locating a local patent and trademark office in the state. Bringing a satellite office to California close to our multitude of innovations and inventors is good for business and will further California’s worldwide reputation as a hub of technological innovation. We look forward to working closely with you as the agency implements its process to select strategically located satellite offices and we urge your consideration of our request. Sincerely,List of Signers in Alphabetical Order:U.S. SenatorsBarbara BoxerDianne FeinsteinU.S House of RepresentativesJoe Baca Karen BassXavier BecerraHoward BermanBrian BilbrayMary Bono-MackKen CalvertLois CappsDennis CardozaJudy ChuJim Costa Susan DavisJeff Denham David DreierAnna G. Eshoo Sam FarrBob Filner Elton Gallegly John GaramendiJanice HahnWally HergerMike Honda Duncan HunterDarrell Issa Barbara Lee Jerry LewisZoe Lofgren Doris Matsui Kevin McCarthy Buck McKeonJerry McNerney George MillerGrace NapolitanoDevin Nunes Laura Richardson Dana Rohrabacher Lucille Roybal-AllardLinda SanchezLoretta SanchezAdam SchiffBrad ShermanJackie SpeierPete StarkMike ThompsonMaxine WatersHenry WaxmanLynn WoolseyCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.01.2011	November 1, 2011Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to the House of Representatives passing H.R. 1002, the Wireless Tax Fairness Act. I’m delighted that my colleagues in the House joined me in supporting the Wireless Tax Fairness Act. This bill is a common sense approach to tackling the rapidly increasing and discriminatory nature of local and state wireless service taxation. We need to encourage the development and adoption of wireless broadband, not tax it out of existence. My legislation simply places a five-year freeze on new taxes that are solely imposed on wireless services. I’m hopeful that the Senate will take up and pass Senators Wyden and Snowe’s companion measure, S 543, so we can get this on the President’s desk. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.12.2011	October 12, 2011Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to her votes against the Panama, Colombia, and South Korea Free Trade Agreements. I was fortunate to have had the opportunity to meet with many of my constituents about the free trade agreements that I voted on tonight, in particular the Korea agreement. The Korea proposal was a mixed bag. It was positive in its reach on standard setting in the high tech industries that export equipment connected with the internet. On the other hand, it also expands draconian copyright enforcement schemes that will damage the architecture of the internet itself with accompanying damage not only to technology but also to free speech. This was a difficult decision but in the end my concerns outweighed other considerations and I voted no. The continuing human rights abuses in Colombia precluded my support for that proposal. The Panama proposal contained the same troublesome copyright enforcement schemes as the Korea agreement. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.12.2011	October 12, 2011Today, members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), chaired by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to act immediately to address our country’s troubled housing market. Specifically, the letter calls on President Obama to: Urge the Federal Housing Finance Agency to establish a plan to refinance all mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Push for a major principal reduction plan for underwater homeowners, such as modifications in coordination with Chapter 13 bankruptcy filings.Institute a “Homeowner’s Bill Of Rights” that would apply to HAMP, FHFA, HUD, VA and private servicer modification programs and include the following:Make the process homeowner-friendly: Ensure a single point of contact; require servicers to review documents within a timely fashion and disclose information; and ban “advanced fees.” Eliminate needless obstacles to effective modifications: Allow for flexibility in the debt to income ratio; end the requirement that homeowners be delinquent in order to be eligible for a loan modification; end dual tracking; and require that servicers not report adverse credit information while trial or permanent modification is underway;Ensure accountability and establish an appeals process: Create an Office of Consumer Advocate; conduct random audits of modifications; and establish an independent appeals process for homeowners who believe their modification has been improperly rejected or handled in violation of program rules Full text of letter below:October 11, 2011The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear President Obama:As Members of Congress from California, we are writing to express our continuing concerns about the ongoing housing market decline and the manner in which the financial institutions are handling delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications, and foreclosures. We believe that these institutions are failing to act in good faith and that there are immediate steps your Administration should be taking to address the devastating problems facing homeowners. On October 4, 2010, we wrote to your Administration requesting help for struggling homeowners who were at the mercy of mortgage servicers. Our letter included dozens of cases from throughout California that highlighted systemic problems in the way financial institutions handle mortgages and the foreclosure process. Since then, we have held meetings with the Secretary of Treasury, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and others outlining the enormous obstacles facing our constituents who are trying to save their homes. Additionally, in March 2011, a group of Members requested a meeting with the Vice President to discuss ways the Administration can be helpful. We continue to hear from our constituents that servicers are uncooperative, misleading and even deliberately obstructive and we have not seen successful efforts from your Administration in response. In September 2011, RealtyTrac released data that showed that one in every 226 housing units in California had a foreclosure filing during the month of August alone – more than twice the national average. The data also showed that California had a staggering 55% increase in foreclosure notices in August, the second highest in the nation. Numerous reports indicate that our housing troubles are worsening. Each foreclosure represents a missed opportunity for a family to stay in its home. We cannot afford to allow this to continue. We therefore respectfully urge you to take the following actions: Urge the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to use its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to allow all mortgages currently owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that meet basic criteria the opportunity to refinance at historically low market rate. This would allow homeowners to reduce their monthly mortgage payment by hundreds of dollars—reducing the number of defaults and preventing foreclosure. Secure a far greater number of meaningful principal reductions for underwater homeowners. One promising possibility would be a temporary reduction in the interest rates of certain homeowners who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, so that the entirety of their monthly payments would go to paying down their principal balances for five years. Coordination with the bankruptcy process would make these reductions more likely to succeed than other types of loan modifications, while also limiting the program to those who truly need it and avoiding the administrative failures that have plagued many other initiatives. Such a plan could be implemented for mortgages held by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as we believe that such a plan would be entirely consistent with FHFA’s obligation to minimize taxpayer losses in the Enterprises. This plan could also be implemented as part of the nationwide settlement currently being negotiated by a group of state attorneys general. Institute a “Homeowner’s Bill Of Rights” that would apply to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of Veterans Affairs, Home Affordable Mortgage Program, Federal Housing Finance Agency, and private servicer modification programs and include the following:Make the process homeowner-friendly: Establish a single point of contact; require servicers to review documents within a timely fashion and disclose information about the process; and ban “advanced fees.”Eliminate needless obstacles to effective modifications: Allow for flexibility in the debt to income ratio; end the requirement that homeowners be delinquent in order to be eligible for a loan modification; cease dual tracking; and prohibit servicers from reporting adverse credit information while trial or permanent modification is underway.Ensure accountability and establish an appeals process: Create an Office of Consumer Advocate; conduct random audits of modifications; and establish an independent appeals process for homeowners who believe their modifications have been improperly rejected or handled in violation of program rules.These are actions that can be taken immediately by your Administration to help address the overwhelming problems facing our constituents. We understand that these are not the only actions that must be taken, and we will continue to work in Congress on behalf of struggling homeowners to encourage recovery in the housing market and to prevent similar problems in the future. Our current economic crisis began in the housing market. Until the housing market is stabilized, our economy will not be able to fully recover. We hope you will act in the best interest of the American people who are facing extreme hardships to keep homeowners in their homes and stabilize the economy.Joe BacaKaren BassXavier BecerraHoward BermanLois CappsDennis CardozaJudy ChuJim CostaSusan DavisAnna EshooSam FarrBob FilnerJohn GaramendiJanice HahnMike HondaBarbara LeeZoe LofgrenDoris MatsuiJerry McNerneyGeorge MillerGrace NapolitanoLaura RichardsonLucille Roybal-AllardLinda SanchezLoretta SanchezAdam SchiffBrad ShermanJackie SpeierPete StarkMike ThompsonHenry WaxmanLynn Woolsey The California Democratic Congressional Delegation consists of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. This group outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined.
10.07.2011	October 7, 2011Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the ranking member on the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee, introduced the Protecting American Families and Businesses Act of 2011. This legislation reforms sections of our nation’s byzantine immigration laws that keep families apart and prevent American companies from recruiting the world’s best and brightest. It adjusts per country limits, recaptures previously-issued visas that go unused due to bureaucratic delay, and provides temporary relief for certain individuals caught in green card backlogs. The bill’s provisions include: eliminating per country limits on the employment-based side (with a three year phase-in);raising the per country limit on the family-based side from 7% to 15%;•expanding “AC-21” protection to also include L and F visa holders, giving them the same protections H-1B visa holders currently have;creating a new “W” temporary visa for the spouses and minor children of lawful permanent residents (LPRs) caught in the green card backlogs; and,recapturing unused employment-based and family-based green cards to shorten green card backlogs. “Our nation gains nothing from keeping families separated and blocking companies from hiring the world’s brightest innovators,” said Rep Zoe Lofgren. “Keeping fathers and mothers separated from their families, is not the American way. This legislation reforms our current anti-family visa system, keeping spouses and children together.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.06.2011	October 6, 2011Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren introduced the American Innovation in Manufacturing (AIM) Act which temporarily reduces the cost share requirement for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, the only Federal program that is solely devoted to improving the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturers. MEP was created in 1988 and is administered by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Its goal is to enhance productivity, technological performance, and strengthen the global competitiveness of small- and medium-sized U.S. manufacturing firms. MEP consists of a nationwide network of 60 Centers – at least one in every state – and over 370 field offices. MEP is a public/private partnership that delivers a high return on investment to taxpayers. For every one dollar of federal investment, MEP generates $32 in new sales growth. This translates into $3.6 billion in new sales annually and in 2009 MEP clients reported creating & retaining 72,075 jobs. The AIM Act would set MEP cost share requirements at 50:50 for a one year period, the same as all other economic development programs in the Commerce Department. Additional details on MEP are available at http://www.nist.gov/mep/ “To remain the leading player in the global economy, we must ensure that American manufactures have the tools they need to stay competitive, noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Innovation is more than developing the latest gadget or gizmos, it’s also about finding better ways of building gadgets and gizmos.” Current Co-sponsors: Carnahan, Cicilline, DeFazio, Dingell, Filner, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Kaptur, LaTourette, Levin, Lujan, McGovern, Moore, Nadler, Pierluisi, Richardson, Tim Ryan, Welch Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.08.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to the President’s speech calling for Congressional action on jobs. September 8, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to the President’s speech calling for Congressional action on jobs. I welcome and support the President’s call for an American Jobs Act, and I urge my Republican colleagues to work with the administration and Democrats in Congress to put America back to work. Getting our economy back on track is the fastest and surest way to get our budget problems under control. I’ve served in elected office since the early 1980’s, first as a school board member, then as a member of the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, and finally as a member of Congress. I’ve spent my entire career in public service working to find compromise. Governing is not about getting your way, it’s about doing the most good for the most people. This proposal is not what I would consider an ideal solution, but it is a sensible and reasonable approach. I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle put aside their partisan goals and join us in governing. The American Jobs Act, as proposed by the President would: •cut taxes for small businesses, the engines of job creation, to help them hire and grow; •put more money in the pockets of working and middle class Americans; •put more people back to work --teachers laid off from state budget cuts, veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, first responders, and constructions workers rebuilding our roads and bridges, and schools; and •help the long term unemployed, by helping them support their families while they look for work and reforming the system to better connect them to real jobs. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.26.2011	To celebrate the return of nearly two dozen firefighters to the line this week, the City of San José and the San José Fire Department today brought together federal, state and local leaders who aided the Fire Department in obtaining a $15 million grant to reinstate laid-off firefighters.August 25, 2011San Jose, CA – To celebrate the return of nearly two dozen firefighters to the line this week, the City of San José and the San José Fire Department today brought together federal, state and local leaders who aided the Fire Department in obtaining a $15 million grant to reinstate laid-off firefighters. The grant, awarded from the Federal Emergency Management Agency‘s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, has allowed the Fire Department to reinstate 22 firefighters who were laid off in July 2010. These firefighters have completed a refresher Fire Academy training, and will report to duty starting Friday, August 26. “I’m delighted that we were able to secure this absolutely essential funding from the federal government to keep firefighters on the job,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Every day, all across our city, brave men and women rush into danger responding to calls for help. I’m humbled to have played a part in making sure those calls go answered and I’m immensely proud of the work that our first responders do in our community.” “In these trying budget times, I am extremely pleased to welcome these 22 firefighters back to our department and our community,” said Mayor Chuck Reed. “I’d like to thank the many different people who joined together to help us receive and accept this grant award.” “The awarding of the SAFER grant will significantly improve the level of emergency services in San José by bringing back much needed firefighters and companies to the community,” noted Fire Chief William McDonald. “As a result, our on-duty staffing levels will increase, assisting us in better addressing the needs of our residents. Our Department is honored to have received the grant and I believe the residents of our city will greatly benefit.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.01.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to her vote on the “Boehner” debt ceiling plan. July 29, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to her vote on the “Boehner” debt ceiling plan. Tonight, I voted against the so called Boehner plan to raise the debt ceiling. I voted no because this plan is nothing more than an attempt to hold our economy hostage for partisan again and would guarantee This plan does nothing to solve the true problems our country faces and pushes the entire burden of balancing our budget entirely on working families, senior citizens, and young Americans. It’s important to remember how we got here, when President Clinton left office, our nation was on the path to a $5.6 trillion surplus. The nation’s debt exploded after President Bush and a Republican-controlled Congress demanded the wealthiest Americans get a $2.8 trillion tax cut and then launched two foreign wars costing nearly $1.3 trillion, both of which were passed into law without any offsets or revenue measures to cover the costs. The debt ceiling is about paying for what America has already spent. And, until this current crisis, it was always raised in an unencumbered fashion. President’s Reagan and Clinton routinely raised the limit. This is a manufactured crisis designed to further an extreme ideological agenda. I support a balanced budget and will support both revenue increases and spending reductions. I can’t support targeting working families to bear the most of the burden. I find it reprehensible that the Republican Party is willing to play chicken with our nation’s economy. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.29.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to her vote on the “Boehner” debt ceiling plan. July 29, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement in response to her vote on the “Boehner” debt ceiling plan. Tonight, I voted against the so called Boehner plan to raise the debt ceiling. I voted no because this plan is nothing more than an attempt to hold our economy hostage for partisan again and would guarantee we default in six months. This plan does nothing to solve the true problems our country faces and pushes the entire burden of balancing our budget entirely on working families, senior citizens, and young Americans. It’s important to remember how we got here, when President Clinton left office, our nation was on the path to a $5.6 trillion surplus. The nation’s debt exploded after President Bush and a Republican-controlled Congress demanded the wealthiest Americans get a $2.8 trillion tax cut and then launched two foreign wars costing nearly $1.3 trillion, both of which were passed into law without any offsets or revenue measures to cover the costs. The debt ceiling is about paying for what America has already spent. And, until this current crisis, it was always raised in an unencumbered fashion. President’s Reagan and Clinton routinely raised the limit. This is a manufactured crisis designed to further an extreme ideological agenda. I support a balanced budget and will support both revenue increases and spending reductions. I can’t support targeting working families to bear the most of the burden. I find it reprehensible that the Republican Party is willing to play chicken with our nation’s economy. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.14.2011	Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved Rep. Zoe Lofgren’s "Wireless Tax Fairness Act" on a unanimous voice vote. This bi-partisan, pro-consumer legislation provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee.July 14, 2011Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved Rep. Zoe Lofgren’s "Wireless Tax Fairness Act" on a unanimous voice vote. This bi-partisan, pro-consumer legislation provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee. On average, wireless customers now pay 16.3% in taxes and fees, more than twice the average rate of 7.4% on other goods and services. In many localities, this cumulative tax burden is even worse: 26.8% in Baltimore, 19.9% in Omaha, 18.2% in Tallahassee, and 20.4% in New York City. The Wireless Tax Fairness Act would halt this trend by imposing a temporary, five-year freeze on new taxes that are imposed only on wireless services. Wireless broadband access is rapidly becoming a key platform for innovation, and this legislation will help foster further investment and access in this key market. Importantly, it does not take away any existing revenue from state or local governments, as it will only apply to future discriminatory taxes. An amendment to the bill, offered by Rep. Lofgren and approved by the committee, would exempt local wireless devices with direct voter approval from the moratorium. “Wireless connectivity is fast becoming the simplest and easiest route to the Internet,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “If we hope to compete in the interconnected global marketplace of tomorrow, the government needs to encourage the deployment and adoption of wireless broadband. In many places, the taxation of wireless approaches or even exceeds the rates of sin taxes on goods like alcohol and tobacco. This legislation simply freezes existing discriminatory wireless taxes to help foster wireless networks as a platform for innovation and jobs growth.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.13.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren announced that Mineta San Jose International Airport had secured a $7.49 million dollar federal grant from the United States Department of Transportation. The grant will fund continued improvements to the airport’s general aviation taxiway and provide connections from the west side of the airfield to the existing taxiway/runway network, allowing expanded general aviation uses, including air cargo and corporate aviation.July 13, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren announced that Mineta San Jose International Airport had secured a $7.49 million dollar federal grant from the United States Department of Transportation. The grant will fund continued improvements to the airport’s general aviation taxiway and provide connections from the west side of the airfield to the existing taxiway/runway network, allowing expanded general aviation uses, including air cargo and corporate aviation. The Airport estimates that as many as 4,000 new jobs could be created when the taxiway improvement and expansion project is complete. The construction phase of the taxiway improvement is expected to create 80 jobs and will involve the removal of existing pavement, construction of new concrete pavement for the taxiway extension, and installation of airfield signage and lighting. “These types of infrastructure improvement projects provide a dual boost to our local economy,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “We put people to work today and build the infrastructure and capacity to keep them working far into the future. As the Bay Area’s population continues to grow and our global economy becomes more connected, travelers will have new options. These investments will help make Silicon Valley’s Airport more attractive to travelers, airlines, and other aviation related businesses.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.12.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren joined with dozens of her colleagues in asking President Obama to oppose any Medicaid cuts that would risk women’s health or restrict the ability of health care providers to treat women. July 12, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren joined with dozens of her colleagues in asking President Obama to oppose any Medicaid cuts that would risk women’s health or restrict the ability of health care providers to treat women. The full text of the letter is below: July 11, 2011President Barack Obama1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NWWashington, DC 20500Dear President Obama,We urge you to oppose any Medicaid cuts that would jeopardize women’s health or restrict the ability of health care providers to treat women in the program. Medicaid provides services to more than 50 million people, and more than two-thirds of the program’s adult beneficiaries are women. As a result, proposals to cut Medicaid particularly burden women. The blended FMAP rate, for example, would lead to cost-shifting to the states, ultimately restricting health care access for women—grandmothers in nursing homes, friends or relatives with special needs, working moms with young kids. To protect women’s health, we must protect Medicaid. Medicaid provides nursing home care, disability services, and basic health care to millions of women. Women comprise a majority of older Americans who rely on Medicaid. Twenty-five percent of total federal and state Medicaid dollars funded services for elderly individuals in 2007, and women made up 69 percent of these elderly individuals. Nationally, Medicaid paid nearly half of all nursing home expenditures, and fifty percent of those who benefitted from these expenditures were elderly women, compared to only seventeen percent of elderly men. Women also comprise a majority of individuals who rely on Medicaid because of their disability. Forty-two percent of total federal and state Medicaid dollars supported services for non-elderly individuals with disabilities in 2007, and women made up 53 percent of these individuals. And women comprise a majority of non-elderly adults who rely on Medicaid. While only 12 percent of total federal and state Medicaid dollars support services for other non-elderly adults, 77 percent of these adults were women—many of them mothers struggling to raise their children in difficult economic times. As a result, proposals to lower Medicaid eligibility levels, reimbursement rates, or otherwise cut funding from the program disproportionately burden women. Lower eligibility levels will result in fewer women with access to needed care, which will have a substantial affect on health outcomes. A recent report showed that 90 of adult Medicaid beneficiaries had a usual source of care as compared to 48 of uninsured adults. Moreover, such proposals will result in many older women—mothers and grandmothers—being forced out of nursing homes or be forced to bear the burden of crushing medical debt. Elderly women and women with disabilities will have fewer resources available to help them stay in their homes and communities, which could also increase the need for more expensive institutional care. Reduced access to care among Medicaid beneficiaries would also likely result in inadequate use of prenatal care, which is associated with increased risks of low birthweight, preterm birth, neonatal mortality, infant mortality and maternal mortality. Proposals to cut funding from Medicaid also jeopardize health care providers’ ability to deliver vital care, and patients’ ability to get the care they need. Surveys have shown that inadequate payment rates are the leading cause of providers’ decision not to accept Medicaid patients, and low payments form a barrier to access to provider care. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 23 percent of women Medicaid beneficiaries reported a problem finding a new doctor who would accept their insurance, compared to 7 percent of Medicare beneficiaries and 13 percent of women with private insurance. A 2008 survey found that 28 percent of ob-gyns surveyed said they would not accept new Medicaid patients, compared to only 4 percent who were not accepting new patients with private insurance. Finally, proposals to cut funding would ultimately cost States and the Federal government more in the long run. The consequences of inadequate prenatal care, for example, ultimately result in higher costs to the health care system, as preterm births increase US health care costs by $26 billion annually. Moreover, regular access to family planning services through the Medicaid program offers another efficient way to save money. The sobering statistics re-iterate that regular access to health care is a necessity, not an option. Efficiencies like women’s medical homes and improved access to family planning services—rather than cuts to eligibility levels or provider reimbursement rates–are a more effective approach that will benefit, rather than harm, the women who depend on the program. In fact, the Medicaid program has long recognized the importance of improving access to family planning services—both in terms of improving women’s health and in terms of cost-savings to the government. This is why it is especially critical that existing protections for family planning, such as the mandatory service requirement and the 90 percent federal match, are preserved. Therefore, we urge you to ensure that deficit reduction does not occur at the expense of our nation’s women, and to protect women’s health by protecting Medicaid. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.08.2011	Today, The California Democratic Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Obama asking him to reject cuts to Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program being proposed by Republican members of Congress. Proposed cuts would gravely affect the 40% of the state’s children and the nearly 2 million disabled and elderly individuals who rely on Medicaid and CHIP. July 8, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, The California Democratic Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Obama asking him to reject cuts to Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program being proposed by Republican members of Congress. Proposed cuts would gravely affect the 40% of the state’s children and the nearly 2 million disabled and elderly individuals who rely on Medicaid and CHIP. Full text of the letter below: July 8, 2011The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear President Obama:The $100 billion or more in Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) cuts under consideration as a part of the negotiations to raise the debt ceiling would undermine the future of the Medicaid program. Moreover, it would be harmful to the 11 million people California covers in Medicaid and CHIP. We share Governor Brown’s opposition to these cuts and urge you to reject them.We understand that as you work to address the long-term budget deficit you are faced with extremely challenging decisions. However, these cuts will severely impact healthcare coverage for senior citizens, poor and disabled children, and others with disabilities. Moreover, they will dampen economic recovery efforts in the state and in the nation. Among the proposals we understand you are considering for achieving the cuts are establishing and then cutting a single “blended rate” for federal matching funds (replacing previously established differential matching rates for different populations) as well as eliminating the ability of states to use provider taxes as a source of financial support for Medicaid. These proposals shift the burden of cuts to the states by reducing federal payments to states or eliminating long approved revenue sources to finance the program. California has the second largest Medicaid expenditures in the country representing 13% of the total program. Reductions in the match rate alone could mean over a $5 billion loss in federal dollars for California. We made a commitment to states to support them as a part of the Affordable Care Act in the expansion of healthcare to all Americans. This includes expansion of Medicaid to nearly 17 million new individuals over the next decade. We established incentives for states to find the uninsured made newly eligible for the program by covering their full cost initially and 90% permanently. This proposal would retreat on that promise and undermine the health reform effort that we together worked so hard to achieve. Provider taxes are a legitimate and long established source of funding for the Medicaid program and relied on by virtually every state. They provide states a critical source of revenue to support the Medicaid program and are vital to avoid further provider payment reductions or benefit cuts in times of economic stress in states. Eliminating the provider tax, which is estimated to reduce federal expenditures by $40 billion, is multiplied in its effect on states by eliminating the available state dollars as well. Provider taxes are especially critical for California where they are providing for $4.4 billion in Medicaid funding in the current year.California has already had to put a plan in place to cut services, increase beneficiary cost sharing, and cut funding from providers because of the current fiscal situation. To cut billions more will severely impact low-income families and individuals with disabilities, and access to critical services, including nursing home and community care services. In California, Medicaid and CHIP provide healthcare coverage to 40% of the state’s children and nearly 2 million disabled and elderly individuals. Such cuts will further damage the California economy and adversely affect our efforts to get people jobs. We want to continue to work with you to address our long-term deficit issue, but shifting the problem onto states and the most vulnerable populations served by Medicaid and CHIP is not the answer. Sincerely,Joe BacaKaren BassXavier BecerraHoward BermanLois CappsDennis CardozaJudy ChuSusan DavisAnna EshooSam FarrBob FilnerJohn GaramendiMike HondaBarbara LeeZoe LofgrenDoris MatsuiJerry McNerneyGeorge MillerGrace NapolitanoLaura RichardsonLucille Roybal-AllardLinda SanchezLoretta SanchezAdam SchiffBrad ShermanJackie SpeierPete StarkMaxine WatersHenry WaxmanLynn Woolsey
06.22.2011	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) welcomed Jessica Herrera, the 2011 Congressional Art Competition Winner for the 16th Congressional District, to Washington, DC for the unveiling of her painting in the Capitol complex. Ms. Herrera, a student at James Lick High School, travelled to Washington and joined hundreds of artists from across the country in the unveiling ceremony for Congressional Art Competition winners. June 22, 2001Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) welcomed Jessica Herrera, the 2011 Congressional Art Competition Winner for the 16th Congressional District, to Washington, DC for the unveiling of her painting in the Capitol complex. Ms. Herrera, a student at James Lick High School, travelled to Washington and joined hundreds of artists from across the country in the unveiling ceremony for Congressional Art Competition winners. “I’m delighted to welcome Jessica and her family to Washington for this wonderful occasion,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “I’m proud to have Jessica’s work hanging in the United States Capitol representing the 16th Congressional District.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.16.2011	Rep. Zoe Lofgren and U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced legislation Wednesday to ensure U.S. protection for refugees and asylum seekers fleeing persecution in their home countries. The Senate bill is cosponsored by Senators Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.).June 15, 2011Washington, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren and U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced legislation Wednesday to ensure U.S. protection for refugees and asylum seekers fleeing persecution in their home countries. The Senate bill is cosponsored by Senators Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). The Refugee Protection Act will help address shortfalls in current law, and help the U.S. fulfill its obligations under the 1951 Refugee Convention. Congress first addressed these obligations when it enacted the Refugee Act of 1980. The Refugee Protection Act would repeal the most harsh and unnecessary elements of current law. The bill introduction precedes international recognition of World Refugee Day, which is celebrated annually on June 20. “As we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Refugee Act and the 60th anniversary of the Refugee Convention, the time is ripe for us to recommit ourselves to protecting refugees and survivors of torture and barbaric regimes,” said Lofgren. “Drawing upon the strong foundation in law and practice that has long made the US a global leader in the protection and resettlement of refugees, the Refugee Protection Act of 2011 contains several much needed changes to our refugee and immigration laws to ensure that we continue to serve as a beacon of freedom to people around the world. America has always led by example, and it’s time we lead the world forward in addressing the realities of persecution in the 21st Century.” "The Refugee Protection Act will reaffirm the commitments our nation made in ratifying the 1951 Refugee Convention,” Leahy said. “This bill would repeal the most harsh and unnecessary elements of current law, and restore the United States to its rightful role as a safe and welcoming home for those suffering from persecution around the world." “We must do everything that we can to help these innocent victims of conflict, religious persecution and ethnic hatred,” said Levin. “The Refugee Protection Act of 2011 is a huge step in fulfilling our commitment to aiding these refugees.” Akaka said, “From the devastating aftermath of World War II through the landmark Refugee Act of 1980 to today, this bill continues our Nation’s historic commitment to provide safe haven to asylum seekers and refugees seeking freedom from persecution and oppression abroad.”“For over a century, the United States has been a safe place for those facing persecution around the globe,” Durbin said. “The Refugee Protection Act will ensure that refugees and asylum seekers with genuine claims continue to receive the protection of the United States. This bill reforms the process for handling refugee and asylum claims to ensure legitimate refugees and asylum seekers are treated fairly, while protecting the safety of the American people. I’m glad Chairman Leahy has continued his efforts on behalf of refugees and I’m happy to support him.” The Refugee Protection Act will increase protections for asylum seekers, and make important reforms to the expedited removal process by enabling asylum seekers to pursue their claims first before the Asylum Office of the Department of Homeland Security. The bill will require the immigration detention system to ensure that asylum seekers and others have access to counsel, religious practice, and visits from family. The bill also ensures that innocent asylum seekers and refugees are not unfairly denied protection as a result of overly broad terrorism bars that can have the effect of sweeping in those who were actually victimized by terrorists. The bill ensures that those with actual ties to terrorist activities will continue to be denied entry to the United States. The Refugee Protection Act legislation is supported by more than 40 organizations that support and advocate for fair refugee and asylum policies. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.14.2011	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today introduced the Immigration Driving Entrepreneurship in America (IDEA) Act of 2011, which allows American companies to attract and retain highly-skilled foreign graduates of American universities in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields. June 14, 2011Washington, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today introduced the Immigration Driving Entrepreneurship in America (IDEA) Act of 2011, which allows American companies to attract and retain highly-skilled foreign graduates of American universities in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields. The IDEA Act would also create a new green card category for entrepreneurs who establish new start-up businesses, create jobs for American workers, and invest in the American economy. The legislation reforms the current H-1B and L-1B visa programs to better protect workers from exploitation and prevent the undercutting of American wages. The fees generated by these new visa categories and reforms would be invested in our educational system to better prepare American students for the jobs of tomorrow. It makes no sense for us to educate the world’s brightest students and then ship them back to their home countries to compete against us. My bill would allow some of the world’s sharpest minds to stay in the United States and help us grow our economy.For generations, immigrants have flocked to our shores to build their dreams, and in turn they have grown our economy and provided hundreds of thousands of jobs to their fellow Americans. Companies like Intel, Google, News Corp, Yahoo, and eBay were founded by innovative immigrants and now employ tens of thousands of people. More than 52 percent of Silicon Valley startups were founded or co-founded by immigrants, and immigrant-founded companies produced $52 billion in sales and employed 450,000 workers in 2005. Immigration has historically made our economy stronger. My bill embraces that history and encourages the world’s thinkers and doers to join us. The bills primary provisions would:•Help American companies attract and retain the best and the brightest workers by empowering them to seek green cards for advanced degree graduates in STEM fields from the most distinguished American universities.•Attract new businesses by awarding green cards to entrepreneurs with significant venture capital funding who agree to open their start-ups in the U.S. •Incentivize job creation by awarding green cards to entrepreneurs who create new jobs for at least 10 American workers.•Fix our employment-based immigration system by eliminating backlogs and streamlining regulatory hurdles.•Protect American workers by increasing wages and reforming the broken H-1B and L-1 visa programs.•Better prepare American students for jobs in new technologies by investing significant capital into improving STEM education in the U.S. •Promote investment in the American economy by reforming the EB-5 Employment Creation Investor Program. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.01.2011	Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced that the Upper Guadalupe River Flood Protection Project would be receiving $3.3 million in construction funds from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for construction in fiscal year 2011. The Upper Guadalupe River Flood Protection project’s goal is to protect 7,500 Santa Clara County homes and prevent an estimated $280 million of flood damage. June 1, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced that the Upper Guadalupe River Flood Protection Project would be receiving $3.3 million in construction funds from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for construction in fiscal year 2011. The Upper Guadalupe River Flood Protection project’s goal is to protect 7,500 Santa Clara County homes and prevent an estimated $280 million of flood damage. In 1995, flooding damaged over 150 homes in Gardner and Willow Glen, and forced the closer of Highway 97 and parallel light-rail lines. Damaging floods have occurred in area periodically, most notably in 1982, 1983, 1986, 1995, and 1998. The project also will provide long-term environmental benefits for local fish and wildlife habitat. “This project will help give thousands of Santa Clara County homeowners peace of mind, knowing that their homes will be protected from flooding,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Having seen the destructive nature of past flooding in the area, I’m delighted that this project will move forward. Investments like this one benefit the entire community, raising property values, lowering insurance rates and putting people back to work.” “I’m pleased that the Corps of Engineers will be dedicating much-needed funding for construction of the Upper Guadalupe River project,” said Rep. Mike Honda. “When it is completed, this project will free area residents from the worry that flood waters will force them from their homes and businesses or cause a commuting nightmare. As a member of the Budget and Appropriations committees, I am working to ensure that funding is available in the Corps budget for next year as well. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.13.2011	After receiving insufficient responses from the Obama Administration regarding the seizing of Internet domain names believed to be housing copyright infringing content without a court order – a massive shift in the way the U.S. had combated digital copyright infringement in the past – U.S Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) released the following statements:Washington, D.C. – After receiving insufficient responses from the Obama Administration regarding the seizing of Internet domain names believed to be housing copyright infringing content without a court order – a massive shift in the way the U.S. had combated digital copyright infringement in the past – U.S Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) released the following statements:Rep. Lofgren: “ICE’s response fails to address legitimate concerns about “Operation In Our Sites.” Domain seizures without due process are a form of censorship. In this instance, our government has seized domains with nothing more than the rubber stamp of a magistrate, without any prior notice or adversarial process, leaving the authors of these sites with the burden of proving their innocence. While this might be enough for the seizure of stolen cars or knock-off handbags, it is not enough for web sites and speech on the Internet. It is disturbing that this administration is treating them the same.” Click here for Rep. Lofgren’s letter to ICE and their response. Senator Wyden: “It is hard to imagine that the administration can effectively deter online copyright infringement when they refuse to answer basic questions regarding what they believe constitutes infringement. While the departments finally responded to questions that I sent them more than three months ago, the responses from ICE and DOJ reveal a single-minded determination to stamp out online infringement and demonstrate little if any understanding of the Internet’s value and function. “Particularly troubling is their refusal to explain how linking is different than free speech. Given that hyperlinks in many ways form the foundation of the Internet, efforts to go after one site for linking to another site – which the Administration is currently doing and the Protect IP Act would expand on – threaten to do much more than protect IP. There are many actions that we can all agree the Administration can and should be taking to crack down on counterfeiting of U.S. goods and the illegal sale of U.S. IP products that don’t involve advancing novel and unsupportable theories like holding sites liable for linking.” Click here for Senator Wyden’s letter to ICE and DOJ and their responses here and here . Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.11.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement commemorating the 17th anniversary of Vietnam Human Rights Day. Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement commemorating the 17th anniversary of Vietnam Human Rights Day. The images of people rising up and demanding democracy across the Middle East serve as a vivid reminder of the freedoms that countless Vietnamese have been beaten, tortured, imprisoned, and murdered trying to achieve. Journalists, bloggers, students, whistleblowers, and religious communities face harassment, abuse, and imprisonment for speaking out. Pro-democracy activists are routinely arrested and jailed under draconian and wide-reaching anti-propaganda laws, without due process or the ability to even speak in their own defense. The U.S. Commission on Religious Freedom (USCIRF) released its 2011 Annual Report two weeks ago, stating that “[t]he government of Vietnam continues to control religious communities, severely restrict and penalize independent religious practice, and brutally repress individuals and groups viewed as challenging its authority.” Despite consistent pressure from Congress and human rights organizations, the Vietnamese government continues to violate its international human rights obligations and it very own constitution, silencing the voices of its citizens. Today, I ask all people of conscience to reflect on the struggles of the courageous Vietnamese citizens who are striving to implement change in an authoritarian society. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.10.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech today in El Paso calling for a renewed effort on comprehensive immigration reform. May 10, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech today in El Paso calling for a renewed effort on comprehensive immigration reform. As a long time advocate for immigration reform, I welcome the President’s renewed call for action on a bipartisan immigration reform bill. I remain committed to working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to pass a comprehensive bill that is just, fair, and enforceable. I support a comprehensive approach that secures our borders, ensures that our laws are enforced, promotes family unification, and regularizes the status of those who currently live in the shadows. We must also protect American workers, provide for the legitimate needs of our economy, and bolster our economic growth. We are a country of immigrants, and we should honor those immigrant roots by passing comprehensive immigration reform. Having served as both Chair and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration over the past 4 years, I’ve seen firsthand the damaging effects that our broken and dysfunctional immigration system has had on the U.S. economy and families. I agree with the President that the United States desperately needs a comprehensive solution that solves our nation’s immigration woes. However, I also believe that the President has the authority to provide immediate relief to some families facing difficulties with our draconian immigration system. He owes it to America to use the authority that the law already provides to every President. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.14.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to the FY 2011 continuing resolution being considered in the House of Representatives. April 14, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to the FY 2011 continuing resolution being considered in the House of Representatives. I support reducing the deficit. But the reductions in this CR are too narrowly focused on a small sliver of the budget. The Departments of Education, Labor, and Health and Human Services, which make up around 5 percent of the total budget, account for nearly 50 percent of reductions. The continuing resolution also makes drastic cuts to transportation projects necessary for our nation to stay competitive. Defense spending, which makes up 20 percent of all spending, will actually see a $5 billion increase. One of the first things I learned as an elected official many years ago is that compromise is necessary to governance. But this measure does not reflect compromise that’s fair to America’s middle class. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.08.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to a possible shutdown of the federal government. April 8, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to a possible shutdown of the federal government. Speaker Boehner has refused to accept numerous plans to keep government open and has instead sided with the Tea Party against compromise. One of the first things I learned as an elected official is that compromise is the central tenant of governance. A group of ideologues has managed to bring much of the federal government to halt. While I too support reducing our deficit, this shutdown is not about the deficit or the national debt. When Nancy Pelosi was Speaker and George W. Bush was President, the government was not shut down because of philosophical decisions. Today, Speaker Boehner is leading an ideological movement to defund birth control for low income women. Click here for a summary of what a government shutdown means to you. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.11.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statementon the tragedy in Japan. March 11, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statementon the tragedy in Japan. In the aftermath of the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan, our thoughts and prayers go out to the Japanese people.During these dark days, the Japanese people need to know that they do not stand alone. America stands with you, first responders from all over the United States and U.S. military forces are already on scene assisting rescue efforts. Beyond that, we will continue to support our friends as they recover from this disaster.For Americans living or traveling in Japan or for those worried about Americans who where in Japan during the devastating earthquake, the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo stands ready to assist you. Please follow the link to the State Department's website for further information. http://japan.usembassy.gov/index.html Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.10.2011	Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Trent Franks (R-AZ) joined Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) in jointly introducing the bi-partisan, pro-consumer "Wireless Tax Fairness Act," which provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee.March 10, 2011Washington, D.C. - Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Trent Franks (R-AZ) joined Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) in jointly introducing the bi-partisan, pro-consumer "Wireless Tax Fairness Act," which provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee. On average, wireless customers now pay 16.3% in taxes and fees, more than twice the average rate of 7.4% on other goods and services. In many localities, this cumulative tax burden is even worse: 26.8% in Baltimore, 19.9% in Omaha, 18.2% in Tallahassee, and 20.4% in New York City. The Wireless Tax Fairness Act would halt this trend by imposing a temporary, five-year freeze on new taxes that are imposed only on wireless services. Wireless broadband access is rapidly becoming a key platform for innovation, and this legislation will help foster further investment and access in this key market. Importantly, it does not take away any existing revenue from state or local governments, it simply caps the current taxes and fees. “Wireless Tax Fairness Act, is about expanding access and innovation in our nation’s wireless broadband market,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “By freezing wireless taxes and fees, we hope to spur additional consumer driven development in wireless broadband and to increase access to advanced wireless networks. This legislation is about stabilizing the wireless and giving consumers the opportunity to choose services based on the merits and not on the changing rate of taxation.” "Access to wireless networks represents a key component of millions of Americans' livelihoods, providing the efficient communications capabilities -- whether phone, broadband internet, or otherwise -- necessary to run a successful business,” said Rep. Trent Franks. “The exorbitant taxes on wireless customers are not only unfair, they are counter-intuitive, adding yet another costly impediment to the success of so many American businesses, which are struggling in the midst of a prolonged recession and already hefty tax burden, as well as singling out low-income and senior Americans, who frequently rely on wireless service as their sole means of telephone and internet access, to bear the brunt of the tax's impact." Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.03.2011	Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) celebrated the renaming of Westgate Post in San Jose after local labor leader Tony Cortese. Mr. Cortese, a graduate of San Jose’s James Lick High School, served as President of the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC), Branch 193, for 27 years before his passing in 2007. Mr. Cortese is also widely known as the founder of theNALC Santa Clara County Food Drive, which served as the model for the NALC’s national food drive. Over 18 years, letter carriers have collected over 1 billion pounds of food to feed the nation’s hungry, and it all started with Tony. March 3, 2005Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) celebrated the renaming of Westgate Post in San Jose after local labor leader Tony Cortese. Mr. Cortese, a graduate of San Jose’s James Lick High School, served as President of the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC), Branch 193, for 27 years before his passing in 2007. Mr. Cortese is also widely known as the founder of the NALC Santa Clara County Food Drive, which served as the model for the NALC’s national food drive. Over 18 years, letter carriers have collected over 1 billion pounds of food to feed the nation’s hungry, and it all started with Tony. “I was honored to have introduced the bill to rename the post office building after Tony,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Tony was a mediator and a leader who had the amazing ability to bring people together and was deeply respected by both management and his fellow letter carriers. While he is greatly missed, his name and legacy and commitment to his community will live on at the Anthony J. Cortese Post Office and the NALC’s food drive.” “Having stood on the House floor in support of legislation to designate my district’s Westgate Station Post Office in memory of my friend Tony Cortese, it is an honor to see it come to reality,” noted Rep. Mike Honda. “Tony’s tireless advocacy for letter carriers, and his four-decade legacy at the Postal Service, will never be forgotten; this naming ensures that. Serving as the president of the National Association of Letter Carriers Local 193, Tony accomplished much on behalf of San Jose’s working families, expanding health benefits, procuring buildings and providing open forums for union members, community advocates, and local elected officials. This Post Office naming is the least we can do to honor Tony’s countless contributions to our community.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.16.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to H.R. 1, a continuing resolution that threatens American innovation, and diminishes investments in rebuilding America.February 16, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to H.R. 1, a continuing resolution that threatens American innovation, and diminishes investments in rebuilding America. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1. While I agree with my Republican colleagues that we need to address our nation’s deficit, the budget cuts being proposed would do more harm than good for our economy. Specifically, the legislation’s cuts to science and technology research would impair our ability to compete globally. H.R. 1 would dramatically reduce investments in the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST). These agencies conduct cutting-edge science and technology research that keeps America innovative and competitive. The budget cuts will not only create significant job losses today but also stagnate our economic growth in the future. As a resident of Silicon Valley, I know firsthand what investments in science research and development can do for our economy, and I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing H.R. 1. Click here to see a detail fact sheet outlining the cuts in H.R. 1. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.15.2011	Several members of Congress from California are urging mortgage servicers to work with a new federally funded program in California intended to help unemployed homeowners pay their mortgages and avoid foreclosure. February 15, 2011Washington, D.C. – Several Northern California members of Congress are urging mortgage servicers to work with a new federally funded program in California intended to help unemployed homeowners pay their mortgages and avoid foreclosure. The Keep Your Home California Unemployment Mortgage Assistance Program provides qualified unemployed homeowners up to $3,000 a month for up to six months to help pay their mortgage. The lawmakers recently learned, however, that if the monthly mortgage exceeds $3,000, the servicers will not accept any payment at all, even if the homeowner could send a second check to cover the difference between what is owed and what the program covers. As a result, unemployed homeowners who could avoid foreclosure proceedings thanks to this program are instead at risk of failing to pay their mortgage and landing in foreclosure. “It’s time that banks and servicers become part of the solution and not the problem,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). “It’s ridiculous that servicers and banks are unwilling to participate in a program that will help protect the value of the very asset on which their loan is based on. I find it deeply troubling that servicers would have borrowers default rather than simply accepting payment.” “If this program is to have meaningful success, mortgage servicers are going to have to get on board with processing these payments,” said Rep. George Miller (D-Martinez), one of several California members of Congress who wrote to mortgage services today about this issue. “Refusing to accept dual payments is unacceptable and is a disservice to the homeowners who are doing everything they can to stay in their homes while they look for work. Homeowners shouldn’t have to forfeit their homes because of bureaucratic intransigence by banks and servicers.” News reports and discussions with California housing agency officials responsible for the program confirm that servicers are rejecting two simple solutions to the problem that monthly mortgages can easily exceed the program limit of $3,000 – to either accept two checks, one from the program and one from the homeowner, or to forebear the amount of the mortgage that exceeds the $3,000 program payment. In their letter, the lawmakers wrote that, “we believe refusing to accept supplementary payments from homeowners is inexcusable and we strongly urge you to remedy this problem expeditiously… It is unacceptable that servicers in California are unwilling or unable to figure out a workable resolution to this problem, particularly given that two viable options to address the issue exist.” This letter follows another recent letter from California members of Congress to large mortgage servicers urging them to fully participate in the four pillars of the CalHFA program. Only one large private servicer, GMAC , is participating in each of the four programs offered under the Keep Your Home California umbrella. A copy of the letter is here.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.15.2011	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to amendments eliminating family planning funding. February 15, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in opposition to amendments eliminating family planning funding. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my opposition to the Pence amendment and efforts to eliminate the Title X family planning program. Title X funding has connected millions of American women with essential health care since it was created forty years ago.Given that federal funds, including those provided through Title X funding, are already banned from being used for abortion service, the real impact of this proposal is that over 5 million Americans will lose access to health care services – including important preventive care, such as cancer screenings, annual exams, and contraception.This is a time when we should be focused on creating jobs, helping middle-class families, and encouraging innovation, not restricting access to health care for millions of Americans. Thank you Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose these efforts to eliminate Title X funding, and I yield back the balance of my time.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.28.2011	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced that she will serve on the House Judiciary Committee, the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, and the Committee on House Administration in the 112th Congress. She will serve as ranking member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement and as a member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet. On the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, she will serve on the Energy and Environment Subcommittee and on the Investigations and Oversight Subcommittee. On the House Administration Committee, she will serve as the ranking member on the Oversight Subcommittee. January 28, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced that she will serve on the House Judiciary Committee, the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, and the Committee on House Administration in the 112th Congress. She will serve as ranking member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement and as a member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet. On the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, she will serve on the Energy and Environment Subcommittee and on the Investigations and Oversight Subcommittee. On the House Administration Committee, she will serve as the ranking member on the Oversight Subcommittee. “My committee assignments for the 112th Congress will enable me to continue my efforts to strengthen Silicon Valley’s economy and our innovative edge. I remain committed to working with my Congressional colleagues in a constructive bipartisan manner to achieve these goals” noted Rep. Lofgren. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.25.2011	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement announcing her departure from the House Committee on Ethics. January 25, 2011Washington, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement announcing her departure from the House Committee on Ethics. At the beginning of the 112th Congress, I agreed to temporarily serve as Ranking Member in order to expedite travel and advice paperwork for members and their staffs’. Pursuant to my agreement with the Democratic Leader, I tendered my resignation today upon the official announcement naming Rep. Linda Sanchez as Ranking Member. I wish Ranking Member Sanchez and her fellow committee members my best as they continue the committee’s important work. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.25.2011	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 398, which amends immigration law to protect military personnel and their spouses. This legislation would allow military personnel serving overseas and their spouses, to freeze the 90 day filing period for removing conditional status, until the service member returns from his or her deployment. January 25, 2011Washington, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 398, which amends immigration law to protect military personnel and their spouses. This legislation would allow military personnel serving overseas and their spouses, to freeze the 90 day filing period for removing conditional status, until the service member returns from his or her deployment. Under current immigration law, when any person becomes a lawful permanent resident through marriage to an American, conditions are placed on that status if the marriage is less than two years old at the time of admission to this country or adjustment of status. New couples are then given a 90-day period of time just prior to the second anniversary of the grant of conditional residence within which to petition to lift those conditions. They are given a second 90-day period of time to appear for an interview before the Department of Homeland Security. If either requirement is not met, the conditional permanent residence is terminated and the foreign national spouse could be deported. Co-sponsors include, Judiciary Committee Chair Rep. Lamar Smith, Ranking Member Rep. John Conyers, and Immigration Subcommittee Chair Elton Gallegly. “While this legislation falls far short of the comprehensive reform immigration reform that our system desperately needs, it will be of immense help to the dozens of military families that will benefit from this change,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The brave men and women who take up our nations call to serve need to focus on the important jobs they are doing. This bill gives them the flexibility to delay their filing until they are prepared to do so.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.20.2011	Today, Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced $9,989,955 in Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance grants from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. These funds will go to local organizations providing a range of assistance to homeless persons and families, including transitional housing, permanent housing, and other supportive services. Local grantees are:January 20, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) announced $9,989,955 in Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance grants from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. These funds will go to local organizations providing a range of assistance to homeless persons and families, including transitional housing, permanent housing, and other supportive services. Local grantees are: Bill Wilson Center $852,038 Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County $1,331,497Community Technology Alliance $393,701Emergency Housing Consortium of Santa Clara County $415,335 Family Supportive Housing, Inc. $556,562Housing Authority of the County of Santa Clara $3,366,996 InnVision the Way Home $1,547,185Santa Clara Unified School District $200,534 Santa Clara Health and Hospital System--MHD $865,346 South County Housing Corporation $91,011St. Joseph's Family Center $287,217West Valley Community Services of Santa Clara County, Inc. $82,533 “During these difficult economic times, when the need for housing services is highest and when local governments can least afford it, these grants are essential to keeping people off the streets,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “These local agencies and groups, in many cases, are the only thing standing between many working families and a night out in the cold. I applaud them for their work and will continue to support their vital role in our community.” “Given the unsustainable unemployment rates in Santa Clara County and California, at over 10% and 12% respectively, as well as the economic crunch facing our state, this federal funding for affordable housing comes at a critical time,” said Rep. Mike Honda. “The foreclosure crisis continues throughout Santa Clara County, where 1 in 365 households are experiencing foreclosures. That means thousands of constituents in our community now need affordable alternatives. We cannot leave them stranded with nowhere to go. These federal dollars come at a critical time, helping keep our Valley afloat, while preparing the solid foundation for successfully weathering uncertain times – all part of the process of ensuring that tax dollars are being efficiently and effectively returned to our communities in visible and meaningful ways.” “Thank you so much for making this program happen for Santa Clara County residents,” noted Trish Crowder of Family Supportive Housing. “Because of this funding we are able to provide transitional housing for 22 families in our community. These families are homeless because they have not found suitable places to live. The program provides apartments for families, where they can stay for 12-24 months. During their stay, they pay 30% of their income for the rent and they receive many supportive services. They work with a case manager to help them set goals and they receive support to achieve those goals. At the end of the program, they will be in a financial position to take over the rents on those units and to live there independently. All of the supportive services they receive makes it a successful program for the families and they are able to return to self-sufficiency in our community. Our community and our families are greatly appreciative of HUD’s concern and resources.” “The two HUD grants fund transitional housing services for up to 24-months to single and parenting homeless youth ages 18-24,” said Sparky Harlan of the Bill Wilson Center. “The homeless youth include young people who have aged out of foster care at age 18 and have no family to help support them. We provide housing, help with continuing their education and securing employment, and teach independent living skills. After six months in our program, 75% of our homeless youth are employed and 65% are enrolled in higher education. Without the HUD funds more homeless youth and former foster youth would end up among the chronic homeless street population. We end the cycle of homelessness for our most vulnerable youth.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.19.2011	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to her re-election as Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, which consists of 34 Members. Rep. Lofgren was first elected chair in June 2003, and has subsequently been re-elected at the beginning of every Congress since. January 19, 2011Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to her re-election as Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, which consists of 34 Members. Rep. Lofgren was first elected chair in June 2003, and has subsequently been re-elected at the beginning of every Congress since. I’m humbled that my Democratic colleagues from the great state of California have re-elected me as Chair of our delegation. As a life-long resident of California, I’m immensely honored to continue my work bringing our delegation together to advocate for our state. The entire California Congressional Delegation—Democrats and Republicans—is not only the largest delegation in the nation, with 53 Members, but is also well positioned to help California because of the seniority of our Delegation. And with 34 Democratic Members, the Democratic Congressional Delegation has more Members than any other states combined delegation. I will continue to work in a bipartisan way with my Republican counterpart and his delegation as we have in the past. And I look forward to working with the newly elected Brown Administration in California and continuing to work with the Obama Administration on behalf of California’s families. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.10.2011	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to shooting in Tucson, AZ. January 9, 2010Washington, D.C. – Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to the attack onRep. Giffords of Arizona."I'm deeply saddened by the barbaric and senseless attack in Arizona. My thoughts and prayers are with all of thevictims and their families."Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.06.2011	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to news that an American diplomat was brutally assaulted by Vietnamese police forces.January 6, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to news that an American diplomat was brutally assaulted by Vietnamese police forces. I’m appalled by the news that an American diplomat was assaulted by agents of the Vietnamese Government. Once again, this oppressive and barbarous regime has shown the world its true colors. The thugs and liars in Hanoi not only brutalize and oppress their own people, but have now decided to attack an American diplomat for merely attempting to meet with members of the clergy who have been jailed for their pro-democracy activism. This brutal and unprovoked attack must not go unanswered. I urge Secretary of State Clinton to once again add Vietnam to the list of Countries of Particular Concern. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her ninth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.17.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement on H.R. 4853 – Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. December 16, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement on H.R. 4853 – Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my concerns regarding the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010. The American economy is slowly recovering from the worst recession we’ve seen since the Great Depression. While there has been some improvement, the economy is still fragile, and we need to ensure that our tax policy for the near future supports job growth if we are to continue on this path of recovery. Unfortunately, the tax package that the Senate has sent us today does not support the creation of new jobs. The United States is quickly being surpassed by other countries in infrastructure and clean energy investments. Rather than supporting tax policies to reverse this trend, the Senate’s tax package focuses on tax cuts for the wealthiest in our population and old energy sources that do not present great possibilities for our future.While the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) made important strides in closing that gap, this legislation is a step backwards. The Senate’s tax package includes a one year extension of the Treasury Grant Program enacted in section 1603 of ARRA that allows renewable energy companies to receive a cash grant in lieu of either the production or investment tax credit. The Program was designed to allow renewable energy projects to continue while investor demands for tax credits lagged in a sluggish economy. Unfortunately, a one year extension is insufficient to ensure a steady stream of investment in renewable energy projects and may stall the momentum we’ve built in creating a strong, green economy. Further, the tax package fails to include the Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit from ARRA, a program that was immensely useful. The tax credit was created to expand domestic clean energy manufacturing. America needs to rebuild its manufacturing base to compete in the global marketplace. The Manufacturing Tax Credit is crucial to laying a foundation for the United States to be a leader in the clean energy manufacturing industry. The failure to extend these critical programs will have negative economic impact across the country and in my district in San Jose. As a Member from Silicon Valley, I represent many renewable energy and energy efficiency companies that are currently utilizing these credits to create jobs and stimulate the economy. By not including robust renewable energy programs as part of our tax policy, we are failing to invest in our economic future, and for that reason, Madam Speaker, I am unable to vote for the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.16.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in support of listing Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern.” December 16, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in support of listing Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern.” Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H. Res. 20, calling on the State Department to list the Socialist Republic of Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" with respect to religious freedom. The State Department removed Vietnam from the CPC list in 2006, and since then, the human rights situation in that country has deteriorated significantly. After a brief improvement while Vietnam was seeking membership in the World Trade Organization, the Vietnamese government returned to its former ways – intimidation and repression of basic human freedoms. According to the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom’s (USCIRF) recently released annual report, “The government of Vietnam continues to control government-approved religious communities, severely restrict independent religious practice, and repress individuals and groups viewed as challenging political authority.” Vietnam remains a severe violator of religious freedoms, and the CPC designation is a potentially powerful tool that should be used to highlight this shortcoming and encourage action. USCIRF has recommended CPC status for Vietnam every year since 2001, and continues to do so this year, advising that “[g]iven these ongoing and serious violations, the uneven pace of religious freedom progress after the CPC designation was lifted, the continued detention of prisoners of concern, and new evidence of severe religious freedom abuses, USCIRF again recommends that Vietnam be designated as a CPC in 2010.” I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I strongly urge the State Department to follow the advice of the Commission and redesignate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.09.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), released the following statement applauding the Department of Transportation’s announcement that up to $624 million dollars will redirected to California for high-speed rail development. The California Democratic Congressional Delegation recently sent a letter to Secretary LaHood asking that the funds be redirected to California. December 9, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), released the following statement applauding the Department of Transportation’s announcement that up to $624 million dollars will redirected to California for high-speed rail development. The California Democratic Congressional Delegation recently sent a letter to Secretary LaHood asking that the funds be redirected to California. Click here for the letter to Secretary LaHood. I’d like to applaud the Obama Administration for its decision to redirect funds not being used by other states to California so that our state could continue to develop its high-speed rail system. This additional funding will help ensure that California will remain at the forefront of high-speed rail development in the United States. As our nation’s most populace state, California has a distinctive need for new and innovative transportation solutions. The California Democratic Congressional Delegation consists of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. This group outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined.
12.08.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement supporting the passage of the Dream Act. December 8, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement supporting the passage of the Dream Act. There are young people who were brought to America by their parents without immigration documents. Even though they did not make the decision to violate immigration law and were only doing what their parents told them to do, there is no opportunity under our system for these young people to “get right with the law.” Many of these young people have no memory of the land where they were born. Many speak only English and cannot speak the language of the land of their birth. The Dream Act lets them step forward, register their names and fingerprints, pay their taxes, pass background checks and then contribute to our nation’s wellbeing. While their parents violated the law by immigrating without permission, the child should not suffer for the act of their parents. This bill will allow these young people to comply with the immigration laws, contribute to America and pay taxes. The Congressional Budget Office, the independent financial analyst for Congress, advises us that enacting this measure into law would actually reduce the deficit by an estimated $2.2 billion over the next ten years through a combination of new taxes that will be paid by “Dream ct” children and additional reductions in expenditures. I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to support this bill which honors our country's history as a nation of immigrants.Click here for a summary of the Dream Act.Click here for a Dream Act mythbuster. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.23.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), issued the following statement applauding Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ for approving the state of California’s Medicare demonstration project: November 23, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), issued the following statement applauding Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ for approving the state of California’s Medicare demonstration project: I applaud the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) for their recent approval of California’s plan to improve coordinated care for California’s neediest. The plan will help bring $8 billion to California over the next five years and will lay the foundation for implementing the historic health care reform bill. The funding is expected to help reduce the number of uninsured in California by 2/3. I’m also pleased that CMS approved California’s hospital quality assurance fee, which will provide additional funding for both public and private hospitals who serve a disproportionate number of uninsured and Medi-Cal patients. Link to Letter from California Senate President pro Tempore Steinberg and California State Assembly Speaker Perez The California Democratic Congressional Delegation consists of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. This group outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined.
11.17.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement about S. 3804, the Combating Online Infringement and Counterfeits Act, which is scheduled for markup tomorrow in the Senate Judiciary Committee.November 17, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement about S. 3804, the Combating Online Infringement and Counterfeits Act, which is scheduled for markup tomorrow in the Senate Judiciary Committee. While well intentioned, S. 3804 may have significant unintended consequences. I’m particularly concerned that it could set a precedent for further control and censorship of the Internet by foreign governments, and risk the fragmentation of the global domain name system (DNS). Many prominent human rights activists and Internet engineers have voiced these concerns, and they deserve serious consideration. For this reason, I am disappointed that the Senate Judiciary Committee plans to markup this legislation without a hearing. Artists and innovators deserve to be paid for their work, and I have no sympathy for those who operate websites that are truly devoted to copyright infringement. However, we can promote emerging digital business models for creative work and deter bad actors without running the risk of breaking the global Internet. I look forward to working to achieve these goals, if and when the House Judiciary Committee considers S. 3804 or similar legislation. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.05.2010	Today, California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD) members sent a letter to Attorney General Holder, Federal Reserve Chair Bernanke, and Acting Comptroller of the Currency Walsh requesting investigations into systemic wrongdoing by financial institutions in their handling of delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications, and foreclosures. Delegation members have received thousands of complaints from their constituents, which appear to outline a clear pattern of misconduct on the part of lenders and servicers. October 5, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD) members sent a letter to Attorney General Holder, Federal Reserve Chair Bernanke, and Acting Comptroller of the Currency Walsh requesting investigations into systemic wrongdoing by financial institutions in their handling of delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications, and foreclosures. Delegation members have received thousands of complaints from their constituents, which appear to outline a clear pattern of misconduct on the part of lenders and servicers. Recent press accounts have also reinforced the view that these institutions are routinely failing to respond in a timely manner, misplacing requested documents, and misleading both borrowers and the government about loan modifications, forbearances, and other housing related applications. “It’s clear that even after promising to work with borrowers, and receiving government incentives to do so, financial institutions are simply stringing the American people along,” noted Delegation Chair, Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “After reviewing thousands of complaints from our constituents, it appears that we aren’t dealing with isolated incidents and that a pattern of misconduct and obstruction is present.” PDF of Full Letter -- 275.67 Kb PDF of Case Work Examples -- 1.68 Mb Full Text of Letter: Dear Attorney General Holder, Chairman Bernanke and Acting Comptroller Walsh, As members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, we urge you and your respective agencies to investigate possible violations of law or regulations by financial institutions in their handling of delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications, and foreclosures. Over the last few years, thousands of our constituents have reported that many financial institutions, despite good faith efforts on the part of most homeowners to work out reasonable loan modifications or simply seek forbearance of foreclosure, routinely fail to respond in a timely manner, misplace requested documents, and send mixed signals about the requirements that need to be met to avoid foreclosures. We are particularly perplexed by this apparent pattern in light of the many incentives Congress and the Obama Administration have offered to servicers and lenders to avoid foreclosures where financially viable, including subsidies and loan guarantees from taxpayers. Avoidable foreclosures end up being unnecessarily costly for homeowners, lenders and servicers, and our housing market, whose health is essential to our economic recovery. The apparent pattern reported by our constituents leads us to conclude that their problems are not just personal anecdotes anymore. Recent reports that Ally Financial (formerly GMAC) and JP Morgan may have approved thousands of unwarranted foreclosures only amplify our concerns that systemic problems exist in the ways many financial institutions have dealt with homeowners who are seeking to avoid foreclosures. We are now in the third year of the worst housing crisis we have seen in decades. Far too many families in California, and across the country, continue to lose their homes. While Congress and the Obama Administration have taken steps to help mitigate the housing problem, this devastation has persisted and, in fact, worsened as the country’s unemployment rate increased. We have heard numerous stories of financial institutions being uncooperative at best or misleading and acting in bad faith at worst. These heartbreaking stories are commonplace, persisting across the state and across lenders and servicers. As you can see from the attached document, which highlights examples of casework throughout California, it appears that banks have repeatedly misled and obstructed homeowners from receiving the help Congress and the Administration have sought to provide. The excuses we have heard from financial institutions are simply not credible three years into this crisis. People in our districts are hurting. We have tried to help them in the face of the many challenges they have faced in their dealings with financial institutions. It is time that banks are held accountable for their practices that have left too many homeowners without real help. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren The California Democratic Congressional Delegation consists of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. This group outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined.
09.15.2010	Today, the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law voted to forward Rep. Zoe Lofgren’s Cell Tax Fairness Act to the full Judiciary Committee. The bipartisan bill would provide for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee. A typical consumer already pays 15.2% in federal, state, and local taxes on their cell phone bill as compared to 7.1% for most other taxable goods and services.September 15, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law voted to forward Rep. Zoe Lofgren’s Cell Tax Fairness Act to the full Judiciary Committee. The bipartisan bill would provide for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee. A typical consumer already pays 15.2% in federal, state, and local taxes on their cell phone bill as compared to 7.1% for most other taxable goods and services. “My bill is a common sense, bipartisan measure that will help consumers and foster further innovation in mobile broadband,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This does not take away any existing revenue for state or local governments, it simply calls for a moratorium on new discriminatory taxes. This legislation will ensure that consumers make choices about communications technology based on the merits and not on the taxes they’ll be charged.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, andInternational Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S.House of Representatives from California.
08.10.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which includes $10 billion in funding to save teacher jobs. The bill also includes $16.1 billion in health assistance to states. August 10, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which includes $10 billion in funding to save teacher jobs. The bill also includes $16.1 billion in health assistance to states. Estimates indicate that nearly 319,000 jobs will either be saved or created by these investments in state and local government. The bill, which costs of $26.1 billion, includes offsets of $27.5 billion, equaling $1.4 billion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. The funding in the bill is supported by a majority of the nation’s Governors, including many Republican Governors, and by numerous organizations, including the bipartisan National Conference of State Legislatures, National Association of Counties and the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations. “As we approach the beginning of the school year, it’s essential that we ensure that our nation’s classrooms are properly staffed, “said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This legislation will help relieve some of the pressure local and state governments are feeling in this recession. In California alone, 16,000 teaching jobs will be saved by the funding contained in this measure. By closing tax loopholes that have promoted shipping jobs overseas, we not only pay for this bill, but actually help reduce on national deficit. This is a common sense and bipartisan approach to helping our communities and keep jobs here at home.” Letter from Governor Schwarzenegger supporting the Education Jobs Fund. Letter from the California State Legislature in support of H.R. 1586. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.22.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) sent the following letter to The Hill newspaper responding to their letter defending their decision to accept paid advertisements from the communist government of Vietnam: July 22, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) sent the following letter to The Hill newspaper responding to their letter defending their decision to accept paid advertisements from the communist government of Vietnam. Ms. Francine M. McMahon, PublisherThe Hill1625 K Street NWSuite 900Washington, DC 20006 Dear Ms. McMahon, Thank you for responding to the letter I sent on June 24th, in which I raised my concerns about The Hill’s publication of advertisements placed by the Government of Vietnam. I received your response on a day which coincided with The Hill’s publication of yet another of these advertisements. You are correct. You are not required in any way to answer my inquiry regarding the payments you received from the communist government in Vietnam to run their propaganda ads. While I certainly respect The Hill’s First Amendment rights, the possession of the right does not require a newspaper to publish every item submitted to it. As the Supreme Court held in Miami Herald Publishing v. Tornillo, “A newspaper is more than a passive receptacle for news, comment, and advertising. The choice of material to go into a newspaper… constitute[s] the exercise of editorial content and judgment.” In fact, just last week, NBC and CBS refused to run a television advertisement from the National Republican Trust PAC that promotes opposition to the construction of a mosque near Ground Zero in New York City. I am saddened that The Hill has continued to run these advertisements paid for by the government of Vietnam. This oppressive and brutal regime regularly engages in censorship, and arrests and jails democracy activists with its draconian “anti-propaganda” law. You have the protection of our Constitution’s First Amendment. That doesn’t require you to accept payment from an oppressive regime who is spreading their own propaganda. The advertisement, which suggests an improving U.S.-Vietnamese relationship, and dismisses human rights violations as the product of mere cultural differences, fails to point out the backslide in conditions that occurred once Vietnam achieved its trade goals. In the 15 years since diplomatic relations were normalized, little progress has been made. As the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) assesses in its 2010 Annual Report, released in May 2010: “Vietnam’s overall human rights record remains poor, and has deteriorated since Vietnam joined the WTO in January 2007. Vietnam is an authoritarian state governed by the Communist Party. Over the past two years, the government has moved decisively to repress any perceived challenges to its authority, tightening controls on the freedom of expression, association, and assembly.” The government of Vietnam holds itself out to be a positive example to other countries, and is now using our media to spread propaganda, whitewashing serious human rights concerns and implying that our two countries should merely “keep working in the areas of agreement.” While I understand the benefit of diplomacy and constructive dialogue, it has been my experience that the government of Vietnam lacks a meaningful commitment to reform. I firmly believe that we need to send a message to the Vietnamese government that we do not condone its repression of basic human rights. The regime’s use of anti-propaganda laws to silence dissent and maintain one-party control is not democracy, should not be tolerated, and should not be ignored for economic gain or any other reasons. I am disappointed that The Hill continues to provide a voice to a government that silences so many of its own citizens, including reporters who do not enjoy the freedom of the press in Vietnam that you enjoy in the United States. Sincerely, ZOE LOFGRENMember of Congress Click here for Rep. Lofgren’s letter to the editor questioning the Hill’s decision to accept ad revenue from the Vietnamese government. Click here for the letter Rep. Lofgren sent to The Hill newspaper request details on the Vietnamese government ads. Click here for The Hill’s newspaper’s reply to Rep. Lofgren's requesting additional details on the Vietnamese government ads. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.01.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), along with Reps. George Miller (D-CA), Bart Gordon (D-TN), Richard Neal (D-MA), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Michael McCaul (R-TX), introduced the One Global Internet Act of 2010. This legislation focuses on trade barriers and restrictive technology standards that threaten the free flow of information and undermine global trade. The Act establishes a government task force that would review, prioritize, and act on attempts by foreign governments to degrade or disrupt the flow of goods, services, and/or content on the Internet. July 1, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), along with Reps. George Miller (D-CA), Bart Gordon (D-TN), Richard Neal (D-MA), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Michael McCaul (R-TX), introduced the One Global Internet Act of 2010. This legislation focuses on trade barriers and restrictive technology standards that threaten the free flow of information and undermine global trade. The Act establishes a government task force that would review, prioritize, and act on attempts by foreign governments to degrade or disrupt the flow of goods, services, and/or content on the Internet. Click here for a detailed summary of the legislation. “Preserving an open and truly global Internet should be a top priority for the U.S. government,” noted Rep. Lofgren (D-CA). “All over the world, foreign governments are subverting the Internet for their own ends. A core set of technical standards can guarantee wider access to information and a bigger, fairer global marketplace. The promise of the Internet lies in its ability to transcend national borders. This bill helps realize that promise.” “American entrepreneurs and businesses will thrive abroad if we protect their intellectual property rights and tear down restrictive trade barriers,” said Rep. Goodlatte, co-chair of the Congressional Internet Caucus and the International Anti-Piracy Caucus. “This legislation will help ensure that Americans are getting a fair shake by highlighting restrictive trade practices, and will help ensure that businesses and individuals alike have access to one Internet free of censorship.” “Free flow of information and trade over the Internet is vital to our economy and security,” said Rep. McCaul (R-TX), co-founder of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “This legislation gives us greater ability to assure both individuals and businesses that their privacy and intellectual property are protected and that they will have uninterrupted access to the global marketplace without threat of censorship by oppressive regimes.” “Our trade policies should reflect both U.S. values and U.S. interests as a global leader in technology and innovation. Regimes that attempt to lock down Internet traffic threaten the market for American goods and the free flow of information, said Rep. Gordon (D-TN). “The One Global Internet Act, as well as the America COMPETES Act now making its way through Congress, take steps to coordinate a strong federal response and create a fair set of technical standards to protect a free global Internet.” “In this day and age, the internet is a central part of our economy and an important source of free information for people around the globe,” noted Rep. Thompson (D-CA). We must use our country’s political and economic power to protect the free flow of information and opportunities created by the Internet. If we don’t act, foreign governments will have undue power over global commerce and communications.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.30.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in response to the House’s vote to pass The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act conference reportJune 30, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in response to the House’s vote to pass The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act conference report. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act sets the stage for regulatory protection for consumers and tax payers. After years of Republican led deregulation, our economy lost 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings and net worth. This legislation is a step forward in reining in the most egregious practices and loopholes that brought the world economy to its knees. Click here for a summary of the bill's provisions. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.24.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in response to the House’s vote to pass H.R. 5175, DISCLOSE Act.June 24, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in response to the House’s vote to pass H.R. 5175, DISCLOSE Act. “The DISCLOSE Act is the first step in stemming the tide of corporate money in our electoral process. While I strongly believe that more must be done to ensure that the voices of America’s voters aren’t drowned out by unregulated corporate cash, I’m delighted to see the House acting on this bill. I’m hopeful that our colleagues in the Senate can set aside their differences and quickly act on this important piece of legislation.” Rep. Lofgren's floor statement in support of the bill is below: Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.21.2010	Recently, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the International Adoption Harmonization Act of 2010 which allows an adopted child to legally immigrate so long as the adoption is completed and the petition is filed before the child turns 18. The current age limit is 16. The bill would also restore an international adoption exemption that was inadvertently eliminated when the U.S. joined the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoptions. June 21, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Recently, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the International Adoption Harmonization Act of 2010 which allows an adopted child to legally immigrate so long as the adoption is completed and the petition is filed before the child turns 18. The current age limit is 16. The bill would also restore an international adoption exemption that was inadvertently eliminated when the U.S. joined the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoptions. “I have heard countless stories from prospective parents in the United States about the inflexibility and draconian nature of our laws,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. Adopting a child from a foreign country is already hard enough without unneeded bureaucratic headaches. My bill simply makes a few common sense changes to current law that will make it easier for American citizens to navigate the complicated adoption process.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.17.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) welcomed Jesus Zuniga, the 2010 Congressional Art Competition Winner for the 16th Congressional District, to Washington, DC for the unveiling of his painting in the Capitol complex. Mr. Zuniga, a graduating senior at San Jose’s Downtown College Prep, travelled to Washington to participate in the unveiling ceremony for all Congressional Art Competition winners. June 17, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) welcomed Jesus Zuniga, the 2010 Congressional Art Competition Winner for the 16th Congressional District, to Washington, DC for the unveiling of his painting in the Capitol complex. Mr. Zuniga, a graduating senior at San Jose’s Downtown College Prep, travelled to Washington to participate in the unveiling ceremony for all Congressional Art Competition winners. “It was a pleasure to welcome Jesus to Washington and personally congratulate him for his work,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The Congressional Art Competition gives members a unique opportunity to recognize developing young artists and to showcase their districts in Washington.” Click here for pictures of Zoe welcoming Jesus to Washington, DC and of his winning entry in 2010 Congressional Art Competition. Click here for additional information on the Congressional Art Competition. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.20.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced the winner of the 2010 “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional Art Competition for the 16th Congressional District of California. “Stressing Out”, painted by Jesus Zuniga a senior at San Jose’s Downtown College Prep, was selected and will be displayed as part of a year-long national exhibition in the United States Capitol. Mr. Zuniga will join Rep. Lofgren in Washington this June for the official unveiling of his painting. May 20, 2010 Washington, D.C. — Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced the winner of the 2010 “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional Art Competition for the 16th Congressional District of California. “Stressing Out”, painted by Jesus Zuniga a senior at San Jose’s Downtown College Prep, was selected and will be displayed as part of a year-long national exhibition in the United States Capitol. Mr. Zuniga will join Rep. Lofgren in Washington this June for the official unveiling of his painting. “San Jose has always had a rich and vibrant arts scene and I’m delighted to see a new generation of artists developing in our city,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Jesus’ work demonstrates an amazing level of sophistication and dedication. I’m honored to have his piece representing the 16th Congressional District in Washington and look forward to personally welcoming him to our nation’s Capitol." For additional infomartion on Jesus visit Downtown College Preps' website: http://www.dcp.org/sites/default/files/J_Zuniga_Cong_Art_Contest.pdf Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.19.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement supporting the introduction of H.R. 5322 the Patent and Trademark Office Funding Stabilization Act, by Representatives John Conyers, Jr. and Lamar Smith. May 19, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement supporting the introduction of H.R. 5322 the Patent and Trademark Office Funding Stabilization Act, by Representatives John Conyers, Jr. and Lamar Smith. I applaud Chairman Conyers and Ranking Member Smith for their efforts to give the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) the resources it urgently needs to address the backlog of patent applications. The bipartisan Patent and Trademark Office Funding Stabilization Act is a narrowly tailored measure that only focuses on fee setting authority, fee diversion, and temporary surcharges. While I continue to support efforts towards a larger patent reform package, I believe this narrow fix should be enacted as soon as possible so the USPTO has the resources it needs to reduce the backlog, improve the quality of patent examinations and streamline its operations. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.13.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement on the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, H.R. 5116.May 13, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement on the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, H.R. 5116. Madam Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 5116, to reauthorize the America COMPETES Act. This bill continues the commitment we made to science and innovation from the first COMPETES Act, passed in 2007. As a Member representing Silicon Valley, I have seen firsthand what innovation and research can do to keep us competitive and economically strong. H.R. 5116 will foster research by reauthorizing the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, the National Science Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and keep them on a path that will double their authorized funding over 10 years, based on 2007 appropriated levels. This funding will support basic research in labs across the country. The Act also includes loan guarantee programs for small- and medium-sized manufacturers to bring their new and innovative products beyond the prototype stage and into production. Madam Speaker, the bill fosters STEM education and will help ensure that today’s children are prepared to be tomorrow’s competitive workforce. H.R. 5116 provides greater coordination of STEM education programs across federal agencies and aligns the programs at all levels of education – from K-12 through doctoral degrees. Once students are interested in STEM fields, we need to foster their growth and ensure that they have the right tools and support to stay within the STEM pipeline. The COMPETES Reauthorization Act also encourages innovative thinking and solutions by reauthorizing the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E) to perform high-risk, high-reward energy research that could lead to the game-changing technology we need to wean ourselves off of polluting fossil fuels. I would like to note one concern I have with this legislation. Section 123 establishes a working group to coordinate the policies of various agencies regarding public access to the results of federally-funded research. I agree that coordination could improve technical uniformity in the dissemination of data, boosting interoperability across agencies and disciplines. However, the working group should not extend its mandate to demand uniformity in all public access policies, such as those for scientific publications. In particular, it should not interfere with the policy of the National Institutes of Health, which requires free public access to the published results of research funded by NIH. This legislation should not be interpreted to restrict existing open access to scientific knowledge, or to prevent its expansion. This issue aside, I am pleased of the commitment we are making to science and innovation today, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.11.2010	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in commemoration of Vietnam Human Rights Day. May 11, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement in commemoration of Vietnam Human Rights Day. Madam Speaker, I rise in honor of the 16th Commemoration of Vietnam Human Rights Day. I am proud to represent San Jose, home to the largest Vietnamese population outside of Vietnam itself. Many of my constituents have family and friends still in Vietnam, and the reports about the human rights situation in that country are concerning. Beginning in 1994, Congress has designated May 11th as Vietnam Human Rights Day – a day to reflect on the struggles of the thousands of innocent Vietnamese citizens that seek basic human rights and freedom. Sadly, in the sixteen years since Congress first established this day calling for Hanoi to respect basic human rights, the situation has not improved. In fact, after the United States granted Vietnam Permanent Normal Trade Relations in 2006, conditions worsened as the Vietnamese government, having received the trade agreement it sought, returned to its violent and incursive methods of silencing free speech. While the Vietnamese government presents a façade of democracy to the world, journalists, bloggers, and whistleblowers are imprisoned for merely raising questions about government policies or calling attention to corrupt behavior. Pro-democracy activists are arrested and jailed under arbitrary, expansive, and vague anti-propaganda laws, often without due process. Despite years of pressure from Congress and humanitarian organizations, the Vietnamese government continues to deny these charges, show a lack of a serious commitment to reform, and openly violate both its own constitution as well as its international human rights obligations. Moreover, religious freedom remains an issue. Reports of harassment, discrimination, and repression related to religion continue. In its Annual Report for 2010, released this month, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has renewed its call for Vietnam to be designated as a Country of Particular Concern by the State Department. I wholeheartedly agree with this recommendation, and strongly urge the State Department to follow it. On this May 11th, I ask my colleagues to honor the efforts of those who are fighting for freedom and democracy in Vietnam, and to consider how we might be of assistance in their difficult and courageous struggle for the basic human rights that we, as Americans, enjoy. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.26.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4543, introduced by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), naming the Post Office at 4285 Payne Avenue in San Jose, California, the "Anthony J. Cortese Post Office Building." April 26, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4543, introduced by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), naming the Post Office at 4285 Payne Avenue in San Jose, California, the "Anthony J. Cortese Post Office Building." Mr. Cortese, a graduate of San Jose’s James Lick High School, served as President of the National Association of Letter Carriers, Branch 193, for the 27 years before his passing in 2007. “I’m grateful to my fellow members for voting to pass this bill honoring Anthony J. Cortese, a local legend and friend,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Tony was known for being able to bring people together, and was deeply respected by both management and his fellow letter carriers. He is also widely credited with helping to start an annual food drive in which mail carriers collect donations for local food banks, which has now spread nationwide. While he is greatly missed, his name and legacy live on at what will now be the Anthony J. Cortese Post Office.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.01.2010	On March 21, 2010, the House of Representatives passed a health insurance reform bill that helps extend quality, affordable health care to all Americans and helps contain our nation’s skyrocketing health care costs. The factsheets linked here provide simply, straightforward answers to your questions about health insurance reforms impacts on you. March, 31 2009 On March 21, 2010, the House of Representatives passed a health insurance reform bill that helps extend quality, affordable health care to all Americans and helps contain our nation’s skyrocketing health care costs. The White House has developed an excellent online resourcefor Americans looking for more information about what health reform will meanfor them. Itcan be found at: www.whitehouse.gov/health-care-meeting An individual can choose which situation best applies to them,among the following choices, and then can learn howhealth reform affects them: “I have insurance through my work.” “I own a small business.” “I have Medicare.” “I do not have insurance.” “I buy my own insurance.” Additional Detailed Fact Sheets from the White House: HealthReform for American Families HealthReform for Children HealthReform for Young Adults HealthReform for Early Retirees HealthReform for Seniors HealthReform for African Americans HealthReform for Latinos HealthReform for Rural Americans HealthReform for Women HealthReform for Small Businesses Additional information available on my Health Care Reform Information and Resource Page Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of SanJose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S.House of Representatives from California.
03.21.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed a comprehensive health insurance reform measure. Below is Rep. Lofgren’s statement on her vote to pass this historic legislation:March 21, 2010 Today, the House of Representatives passed a comprehensive health insurance reform measure. Below is Rep. Lofgren’s statement on her vote to pass this historic legislation: I’m proud to have stood on the floor of the House of Representatives today and cast my yes vote for this historic bill. I voted yes for the nearly 50,000 currently uninsured residents of the 16th Congressional district who will now be eligible for health insurance. I voted for yes for the 6,000 seniors in my district who will no longer be subject to the donut hole in Medicare Part D. I voted yes for the 55,000 young adults in the 16th District who will now be able to extend their coverage under their parent existing insurance. I voted yes for the roughly 15,000 small businesses in the 16th District who will be able to extend coverage to their employees because of the tax credits in this bill. I voted yes for the 800 families in the 16th District who every year are forced to file for bankruptcy due to medical bills. I voted yes because this legislation will reduce the deficit by $130 billion over the next ten years and by $1.2 trillion over the second decade. Simply put, I voted yes because it was the right thing to do and because my constituents overwhelmingly demanded it. Click here for a breakdown of the legislation's impact on the 16th Congressional District. Click here for my health care reform information page. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.09.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 935, introduced by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), congratulating Drs. John E. Warnock and Charles M. Geschke of Adobe Systems, Dr. Esther Sans Takeuchi, Dr. Forrest M. Bird, and IBM Corporation as the recipients of the 2008 National Medal of Technology and Innovation. March 9, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 935, introduced by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), congratulating Drs. John E. Warnock and Charles M. Geschke of Adobe Systems, Dr. Esther Sans Takeuchi, Dr. Forrest M. Bird, and IBM Corporation as the recipients of the 2008 National Medal of Technology and Innovation. Below is Rep. Lofgren’s statement on the bill: Madam Speaker, today I rise as the proud sponsor of House Resolution 935, congratulating Drs. John E. Warnock and Charles M. Geschke of Adobe Systems, Dr. Esther Sans Takeuchi, Dr. Forrest M. Bird, and IBM Corporation as the recipients of the 2008 National Medal of Technology and Innovation.The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is the highest honor for technological achievement bestowed by the President on leading innovators in the United States. The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded annually since 1985 and recognizes outstanding contributions to America’s economic, environmental, and social well-being through the development of technological products, processes, and innovation. The purpose of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation is to recognize those who have made lasting contributions to America's competitiveness, standard of living, and quality of life through technological innovation. By highlighting the national importance of technological innovation, we hope to inspire future generations of Americans to prepare for and pursue technical careers to keep America at the forefront of global technology and economic leadership. The 2008 National Medal of Technology and Innovation Laureates include innovation and achievement in the display and dissemination of information, lifesaving medical technology, and computer design and development. I’m particularly proud that two of the 2008 Medal recipients, Drs. John E. Warnock and Charles M. Geschke, hail from my district in San Jose, California. Drs. Warnock and Geschke, through their work at Adobe Systems, pioneered innovations that were crucial to the revolution in desktop publishing that began in the 1980s and continues today. The advances in desktop publishing had, and continue to have, a profound effect on the way we create and communicate information across mediums such as print, video, and Internet. It is fitting that today we recognize two individuals who have been influential in informing how we create, communicate, and interact with information; the work of Drs. Warnock and Geschke played a prominent role in ushering in what we know as “The Information Age.” As a Member representing Silicon Valley, I know firsthand how technological and scientific innovations provide invaluable contributions to our society. Research and innovation have long been key drivers of our economy, particularly in the Bay Area. Advances in science, medicine, and technology will continue to shape our economy and our world. Therefore, it is vital that we encourage and recognize those who lead the way in these critical areas—those like our 2008 National Medal of Technology and Innovation Laureates. It is my hope that in spotlighting the very best in technology and innovation, we provide encouragement to the next generation of students, researchers, scientists, entrepreneurs, and businesses to continue to invest their time, energy, expertise, and resources into creating the next era of technological achievement. It is through innovation and advancement in science and technology that we will continue to be a leader in the global economy, protect our environment, and improve the lives of all Americans. Again, I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring the 2008 recipients of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation, and I urge the passage of the resolution. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.04.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) congratulated the California State University system on its 50th anniversary. March 3, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) congratulated the California State University system on its 50th anniversary. Click the image below to watch a clip of Rep. Lofgren's floor statement. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.12.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement congratulating San Jose State University for securing a $5 million Recovery Act grant to recruit, train and place unemployed and dislocated workers in biotechnology jobs. February 12, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement congratulating San Jose State University for securing a $5 million Recovery Act grant to recruit, train and place unemployed and dislocated workers in biotechnology jobs. Participants will complete pre-clinical training and will then be placed in clinical training at a State-approved employer partner laboratory. Training will prepare participants for licensure and certification as Medical Laboratory Technicians, Clinical Laboratory Specialists, Clinical Genetic Molecular Biologist Scientists, and Cytogeneticists. “Almost exactly a year after I voted to pass the Recovery Act, I’m delighted that San Jose State’s grant proposal was selected to receive funds,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “With the federal government’s help, we can transition unemployed and displaced local workers into burgeoning new fields like biotech. This serves not only the previously displaced worker, but also our entire economy by providing trained and educated workers to companies that are at the forefront of innovation. The surest way to pull ourselves out from this economic downturn is to innovate and create our way to economic prosperity.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.04.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the bipartisan Robocall Privacy Act of 2010 with co-sponsors Melissa Bean (D-IL), John Campbell (R-CA), Bob Filner (D-CA), and Grace Napolitano (D-CA). The bill imposes criminal fines on entities that (1) make political robocalls between the hours of 9 p.m. and 8 a.m. or (2) make more than two political robocalls to the same number in the same day. These sanctions would not apply if a robocall includes the name of its sponsor at the beginning of the call, along with a telephone number for the sponsor of the robocall. February 4, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the bipartisan Robocall Privacy Act of 2010 with co-sponsors Melissa Bean (D-IL), John Campbell (R-CA), Bob Filner (D-CA), and Grace Napolitano (D-CA). The bill imposes criminal fines on entities that (1) make political robocalls between the hours of 9 p.m. and 8 a.m. or (2) make more than two political robocalls to the same number in the same day. These sanctions would not apply if a robocall includes the name of its sponsor at the beginning of the call, along with a telephone number for the sponsor of the robocall. “The recent proliferation and misuse of robocalls is a huge annoyance to Americans and also threatens the very political process these calls were intended to further,” noted Rep Zoe Lofgren. “The goal of our bill is to addresses the most egregious offenders without targeting legitimate use. Our bill is not an absolute ban on the use of robocalls, because we understand and respect the importance of political speech and the First Amendment’s protection of that speech.” “I am proud to join Rep. Lofgren in introducing this bill to protect American families from being harassed by unsolicited, anonymous, and invasive political robocalls,” said Rep. John Campbell (R-CA). “Unfortunately, in past elections, robocalls have been used to harass and overwhelm voters, oftentimes calling their households late at night. Americans deserve accountability and responsibility from their candidates for federal office, which is why I will continue to work on a bipartisan basis to approve this bill.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.27.2010	Today, the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD) members issued the following statements in response to President Obama’s announcement that the federal government has allocated $2.25 billion from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for high speed rail design and construction in California. All 34 CDCD members voted for ARRA, while no California Republican members supported the bill. January 28, 2010 California High Speed Rail Receives Federal Support Washington, D.C. – Today, California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD) members issued the following statements in response to Obama’s Administration’s announcement that the federal government has allocated $2.25 billion from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for high speed rail design and construction in California. All 34 CDCD members voted for ARRA, while no California Republican members supported the bill. “I’m heartened by the Obama Administration’s announcement that California will finally be receiving federal support for its high speed rail project,” noted CDCD Chair Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). “California is uniquely situated to receive and quickly utilize these Recovery Act funds. Last year, California’s voters passed a $9 billion bond initiative to fund construction of the state’s high speed rail system, making it the only state to have passed a high-speed rail measure. We now stand ready to move beyond the drawing board, and these federal funds will help put Californians to work building the infrastructure of the future.” “This is such great news for our state and the San Joaquin Valley,” said Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno). “This is also a high point in my legislative career as I have worked on high-speed rail development in California for the last twenty years, including authoring the bond which passed in the November 2008 election, and have been a leader in Congress on high-speed rail issues since I was elected in 2004. The proposed high-speed rail system in California is going to be a big economic boost to the Valley and is going to revolutionize the way Californians travel. Investments in new ways of travel right now, such as high-speed rail, rail is the key to our transportation future. I am confident this investment will pay off for our state in just a few years.” "This project will create good-paying jobs for tens of thousands of Californians, and it will boost our economy for generations to come,” noted Rep. George Miller (D-Martinez). "One of the best ways to rebuild our economy and put hardworking people back to work is by making smart investments in our infrastructure," said Rep. Sanchez (CA-47). "By pumping over $2.2 billion into California's high-speed rail system, the president is sending a strong signal that clean energy matters while creating hundreds, if not thousands, of new jobs. I am particularly pleased that this funding will support high speed rail projects in my district in Fullerton and Anaheim." “At a time when good economic news is hard to come by, this announcement is exactly what California needs,” said Congressman Adam Schiff (D-Pasadena). “These funds will help create thousands of well-paying jobs, strengthen our state’s transportation infrastructure, and improve our air quality. California has always been at the forefront of innovation and with these funds we will continue to lead the way in building the next generation of efficient mass transit.” “I am glad to see these funds being directed back to California,” said Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced). “This effort will reduce both traffic and air pollution, while providing valuable jobs. I will continue to do all I can to support this effort.” “This is great news, specifically that the Capitol Corridor will be receiving $29 million for passenger rail improvements,” said Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-05). “This includes $6 million for the new passenger platform for the soon to be relocated downtown tracks and funding to improve the capacity of the tracks between downtown and Davis.” The California Democratic Congressional Delegation consists of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. This group outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined.
01.27.2010	Normal0falsefalsefalseEN-USX-NONEX-NONEst1:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) }/* Style Definitions */table.MsoNormalTable{mso-style-name:"Table Normal";mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0;mso-tstyle-colband-size:0;mso-style-noshow:yes;mso-style-priority:99;mso-style-qformat:yes;mso-style-parent:"";mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;mso-para-margin:0in;mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt;mso-pagination:widow-orphan;font-size:11.0pt;font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif";mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman";mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast;mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman";mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;}Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s first State of the Union address. January 27, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s first State of the Union address. Tonight, the President outlined his commitment to reinvigorating America’s middle class. While it’s now clear that the Recovery Act halted the economies slide into depression, the focus must now shift from stabilization to growth. In his address to the nation, the President outlined a plan to improve our economy for middle-class Americans, to make it easier for students to pay off their loans, to help families with soaring child care and elderly care costs, and to give all workers more tools to save for their retirements. I hope his plan works. As the President said in his speech, “We are strained but hopeful, struggling but encouraged.” The America people’s capacity for hope and perseverance has never seized to amaze me. Times are tough, but we are tougher. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.21.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, (D-CA) released the following statement after a bipartisan meeting with California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. January 21, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, released the following statement after a bipartisan meeting with California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. I’d like to thank the Governor and the bipartisan delegation from the State Senate and State Assembly for coming to Washington to personally meet with the California Congressional Delegation. I believe we had an open and productive meeting based on our mutual desire to help the people of California, especially during these difficult times. And as a result, all have pledged their support to ongoing efforts to continue to bring federal dollars to California.The California Democratic Congressional Delegation has worked hard to ensure that California receives the support it needs from the federal government. During these difficult economic times, California has already been awarded $33.5 billion from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Just over half of Recovery Act funds have been awarded so far, with significant funding still to be awarded. Estimates indicate that the Recovery act has created or saved 110,000 jobs in California alone. California is also slated to receive over $6.4 billion from the Jobs for Main Street Act and we look forward to working with the participants in the meeting today to pass the Jobs package through the Senate. While much has been done at the federal level to help our state, we will continue to find responsible ways to bring federal funding to California and ensure that everyone in California is able to weather this economic storm. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.21.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chair of the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections, released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s ruling on Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission.January 21, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chair of the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections, released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s ruling on Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission.I’m appalled that the Supreme Court would overturn decades of established precedent and gut our nation’s campaign finance laws. This decision isn’t about free speech, it’s about money. The Court has opened the door to unlimited and unrestricted spending by the largest and wealthiest corporations. The vast coffers of Wall Street banks, health insurance giants, and oil companies will now be free to saturate our air waves and media with their political agenda to drown out other voices. The conservative courts assertion that “independent expenditures including those made by corporations do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption…” is absurd. The conservative court is essentially dragging us back into 19th century when robber barons controlled the political process. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of SanJose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.21.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the nomination of Judge Lucy H. Koh for the United States District Court, Northern District of California by President Obama. January 20, 2010Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the nomination of Judge Lucy H. Koh for the United States District Court, Northern District of California by President Obama. I commend the Obama Administration for nominating Judge Lucy H. Koh to United States District Court for the Northern District of California. I strongly and enthusiastically support Judge Koh’s nomination to the federal bench and urge that she be confirmed promptly. If confirmed Judge Koh, who currently sits on the Superior Court of California for the County of Santa Clara, would be the first Korean-American federal judge in the country. Judge Koh is highly qualified for the bench, having served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Central District of California, as a special assistant to the U.S. Deputy Attorney General and special counsel for the U.S. Department of Justice. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.19.2010	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement on the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti. January 17, 2009Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement on the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti. My thoughts and prayers go out to the Haitian people as they deal with the aftermath of this devastating natural disaster. I repeat President Obama’s message to the Haitian people: ‘You will not be forsaken. You will not be forgotten.’ Our courageous men and women in uniform and countless aid workers have already mobilized to respond to this horrific disaster. The United States, in cooperation with the United Nations and other international aid groups, is committed to assisting the Haitian people as they rebuild their nation. In this hour of need, the American people have stepped forward to donate unprecedented amounts of funds to alleviate the suffering in Haiti. From the State Department:The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens are urged to contact the Embassy via email to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy’s Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747; ca-taskforce@state.gov . Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department’s Consular Affairs website. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.02.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General’s report on detainee transfer policies and procedures at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).December 2, 2009Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General’s report on detainee transfer policies and procedures at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General’s report reinforces many of my concerns about Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) treatment of immigration detainees. It’s clear from the report that ICE continues to arbitrarily transfer detainees without any clear rationale. These transfers contribute to a system that denies detainees due process and access to self secured counsel, while at the same time costing taxpayers untold millions by needlessly slowing the adjudication and removal process. I’m hopeful that ICE’s new leadership will embrace report’s recommendations and make appropriate improvements in the process and procedures. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.02.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren(D-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obamaspeech outline his administration’s plans for the conflict inAfghanistan.December 1, 2009Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama speech outline his administration’s plans for the conflict in Afghanistan. While I appreciate the President’s remarks, my overriding concern remains the stability of the region and that of Afghanistan’s nuclear armed neighbor Pakistan. I’m awaiting more in-depth briefings by senior administration officials, which will hopefully address the questions I have concerning the stability of the region. Despite tremendous sacrifice by our troops in the field and American taxpayers at home, Pakistan’s stability and the spread of chaos through the region remains of paramount concern. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.07.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act.November 7, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act. Today, I joined a majority of my colleagues in voting to pass H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. This legislation is an honest commitment to quality, affordable health care for all Americans that will help contain our nation’s skyrocketing health care costs.It’s clear that our nation's health care insurance system is in trouble. Costs continue to escalate, placing impossible burdens on working families, small businesses and government. In California, 18.5 percent of the population is currently uninsured and the average worker’s share of family health insurance premiums nearly doubled from 2000 to 2007. If we continue to do nothing, health care costs will continue to grow out of control, swamping our already imperiled economy. This legislation, while not perfect, will help extend insurance coverage to an estimated 96 percent of Americans while at the same time reducing the deficit over the next decade. The inclusion of a viable public option will help ensure that Americans have real choice in insurance options and introduce much needed competition into the health insurance marketplace. As the debate on health reform shifts to the Senate, I will continue working to ensure this bill is signed into law. For additional information on the Affordable Health Care for America Act, click here to visit my health insurance reform information page. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.29.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the official unveiling of the Affordable Health Care for America Act today. October 29, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the official unveiling of the Affordable Health Care for America Act today. This bill is much more than just the amalgamation of three previous health care bills, it is a testament to the legislative process and compromise. I commend Speaker Pelosi for her efforts in assembling this legislation and bringing our caucus together. This bill is an honest commitment to quality, affordable health care for all Americans. The Affordable Health Care for America Act would help extend insurance coverage to an estimated 96 percent of all Americans while at the same time reducing the deficit. The inclusion of a “public option” will ensure that American’s have real choice in insurance options and will introduce healthy competition into the health insurance market place. I look forward to the upcoming floor debate on this historic bill and its eventual passage into law. Click here for additional facts on H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving hereighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose andSanta Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee onStandards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the HouseJudiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, BorderSecurity, and International Law. She chairs the House AdministrationSubcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland SecurityCommittee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California DemocraticCongressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of theU.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.15.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the release of the American Affordable Health Choices Act. July 15, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the official unveiling of the American Affordable Health Choices Act. The rapidly escalating cost of health care has become a serious drag on our economy and a threat to the stability of American families. It’s estimated that in California 18.5 percent of the population is currently uninsured and the average worker’s share of family health insurance premiums nearly doubled from 2000 to 2007. The stability of America’s middle class requires health care reform with affordable, adequate, accessible coverage. Reforming our inefficient health care system is a much needed step in our path toward economic recovery and long term stability. I look forward to working with my colleagues as this historic and vital bill moves forward. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.15.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 3177, the Fusion Engineering Science and Fusion Energy Planning Act of 2009, to enhance research and development in fusion and move closer to the possibility that practical fusion may meet global energy needs.July 15, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 3177, the Fusion Engineering Science and Fusion Energy Planning Act of 2009, to enhance research and development in fusion and move closer to the possibility that practical fusion may meet global energy needs. This bill will strengthen existing fusion engineering sciences research by giving Department of Energy (DOE) scientists the ability to go beyond basic research in fusion and apply their efforts to fusion capable materials and fusion energy enabling technologies (such as, fueling, heat removal, safety systems, etc.). It also requests that the Secretary of Energy provide Congress with a detailed plan to address the full range of research and development and facility needs required to achieve practical fusion energy. “Scientists at the Department of Energy have done amazing and highly productive work on the basic science of fusion,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The time is approaching to move beyond the basic science research and into the possibility of implementation. The development of a reliable fusion reactor would open an almost inexhaustible supply of clean power and forever alter our way of life.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.26.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement after her vote to pass H.R. 2454 - American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009. June 26, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement after her vote to pass H.R. 2454 - American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009. For far too long our nation has failed to adequately address its dependence on oil, and the environmental and economic damage which that dependence has wrought. This legislation is a first step on a new path, one where clean domestic energy lights our cities, powers our factories, and fuels our farms. This bill will also help put Americans back to work during these difficult economic times by creating tens of thousands of new green collar jobs. In California alone an estimated 174,000 new green collar jobs will be created. No legislation is perfect, this one included, but it does take a balanced and sensible approach in dealing with our nation’s energy needs. Continued inaction only deepens our dependence on foreign energy and compounds the long term damage already done to our environment and economy. Simply put, this bill is a major step in addressing both the economic and environmental needs of our country. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.26.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 3059, a bill creating an exemption for repair parts in U.S. patent law. This legislation applies only to repair and replacement parts that restore an article’s original appearance. This legislation was introduced to address the rising cost of replacement parts – original equipment manufacturer (OEM) parts are 35-100% more expensive than non-OEM secondary repair parts. June 26, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 3059, a bill creating an exemption for repair parts in U.S. patent law. This legislation applies only to repair and replacement parts that restore an article’s original appearance. This legislation was introduced to address the rising cost of replacement parts – original equipment manufacturer (OEM) parts are 35-100% more expensive than non-OEM secondary repair parts. “During these difficult economic times, consumers need as much help as they can get,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “An unwarranted rise in the cost of repair parts puts a severe dent in the pocket books of many working Americans, who depend on their vehicles to take their kids to school, drive to the doctor, and simply get to work. I believe that our patent system should provide an appropriate incentive for industrial designers to innovate. However, the system must be balanced and take into account the legitimate needs of consumers.” Groups supporting this bill include: American Insurance Association, Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association, Automotive Body Parts Association, Consumer Federation of America, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies, Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, Public Citizen, and the Quality Parts Coalition.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.25.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement after today’s bipartisan immigration meeting at the White House. June 25, 2009Washington, D.C. –Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement after today’s bipartisan immigration meeting at the White House. I’m heartened that President Obama shares my desire to push forward with a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. As I’ve stated before, Congress cannot move this legislation without the President’s active involvement and support. Today’s meeting reinforced my hope that we can pass a bipartisan and comprehensive bill that ensures our borders are secure, that our laws are enforced, that promotes family values with family unification, that regularizes the status of those that currently live in the shadows, that protects American workers, and provides for the legitimate needs of our economy.I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate as we continue our discussions. I applaud the President for his leadership and look forward to standing next to him as he signs into law a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.03.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to Attorney General Holder’s announcement that he was reversing a Bush administration rule which held immigrants did not have the right to effective legal counsel during immigration court proceedings. June 3, 2009Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to Attorney General Holder’s announcement that he was reversing a Bush administration rule which held immigrants did not have the right to effective legal counsel during immigration court proceedings. I applaud Attorney General Holder for reversing his predecessor’s ill advised and poorly reasoned rule on access to effective counsel in immigration courts. The rule of law and due process are the foundation of our great nation, without them our Constitution becomes meaningless. Denying immigrants, who have hired their own counsel, due process was an affront to justice and undermined the Constitution. The Obama administration should be commended for its commitment to restoring due process in our immigration courts.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.14.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement on her vote against the FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill.May 14, 2009Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement on her vote against the FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill.When President Bush asked for war funding without a commitment to end the war in Iraq, I voted no. I voted for President Obama and admire him, but a change in administration without a change in plan is not enough. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.07.2009	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced the Single Parent Protection Act of 2009, which would allow an individual who is entitled to receive child support, but not receiving it, a tax credit equal to the amount of unpaid child support. The bill would also increase the tax liability of the individual required to pay such support by the amount of the unpaid child support. ë_Bill Would Give Parents Additional Child Support Options May 7, 2008Washington, D.C. – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced the Single Parent Protection Act of 2009, which would allow an individual who is entitled to receive child support, but not receiving it, a tax credit equal to the amount of unpaid child support. The bill would also increase the tax liability of the individual required to pay such support by the amount of the unpaid child support. “Unfortunately, there are far too many parents who regularly fail to pay their court ordered child support,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill would give parents who have custody another tool to help them collect unpaid child support. It is estimated that less than 30% of eligible parents receive the full child support payment they are legally entitled to. This bill sends a clear message to those parents who consistently fail to meet the child support payments; they can no longer run from their responsibilities.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She is the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.06.2009	bToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced the Gulf Coast Civic Works Act of 2009, which will help ensure that real progress is made toward rebuilding and sustaining the Gulf Coast region. This bill establishes the Gulf Coast Civic Works Commission within the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Federal Coordinator of Gulf Coast Rebuilding to coordinate multiple recovery projects, rebuild key infrastructure, and revitalize the region’s workforce. The legislation, which is co-sponsored by Gulf Coast Representatives Joseph Cao (R-LA), Charlie Melancon (D-LA), and Gene Taylor (D-MS), ensures that local community input is integrated into the decision making process and that local companies are given access to contracts. Bill Would Create Federal Authority to Coordinate Multiple Recovery ProjectsMay 6, 2008Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced the Gulf Coast Civic Works Act of 2009, which will help ensure that real progress is made toward rebuilding and sustaining the Gulf Coast region. This bill establishes the Gulf Coast Civic Works Commission within the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Federal Coordinator of Gulf Coast Rebuilding to coordinate multiple recovery projects, rebuild key infrastructure, and revitalize the region’s workforce. The legislation, which is co-sponsored by Gulf Coast Representatives Joseph Cao (R-LA), Charlie Melancon (D-LA), and Gene Taylor (D-MS), ensures that local community input is integrated into the decision making process and that local companies are given access to contracts. “This legislation establishes a framework to protect the interests of local workers, businesses, and communities while moving the rebuilding efforts forward,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The federal government has consistently failed to address the needs of the Gulf Coast, this bill will help ensure that critical infrastructure is finally rebuilt. During these difficult economic times, the creation of the Gulf Coast Civic Works Commission would put thousands back to work building the infrastructure America needs.”
04.28.2009	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently authored a letter that was also signed by Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), and Anh “Joseph” Cao (R-LA), calling on the Obama Administration to actively participate in the UN Human Rights Council's review of Vietnam during the current session of the Universal Periodic Review (UPR).Letter Calls on Government to Press Vietnam on Human Rights RecordApril 28, 2009Washington, D.C. – Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently authored a letter that was also signed by Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), and Anh “Joseph” Cao (R-LA), calling on the Obama Administration to actively participate in the UN Human Rights Council's review of Vietnam during the current session of the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). The Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, which is co-chaired by Reps. Lofgren, Smith, Sanchez, and Cao, worked with the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom and various non-governmental organizations to develop a list of suggested questions for the review. This list accompanied Rep. Lofgren’s letter, which was sent to the United States Mission to the United Nations. Click here for a pdf of the letter to United States Mission to the United Nations Click here for a pdf of the Vietnam Caucus Questions. April 24, 2009 TheHonorable Susan RicePermanentRepresentative of the United States to the United Nations140 East 45thStreetNew York, NY10017 Dear MadameAmbassador: As Membersof the United States House of Representatives and Co-Chairs of theCongressional Caucus on Vietnam, we write to urge the United States Mission tothe United Nations to participate actively in the Human Rights Council's reviewof Vietnam during the current session of the Universal Periodic Review(UPR). The UPRprocess offers a unique opportunity to assess publicly the human rights recordsof UN Member States. On May 8, 2009,Vietnam will come before the UPR for the first time. As you know, any Member State can posequestions of the Government of Vietnam during the review. We believeit is imperative that the UPR include a full accounting of human rightsconditions in Vietnam, including the multitude of abuses detailed in the StateDepartment's 2008 Country Report on Human Rights Practices. Toward that end, the Congressional Caucus onVietnam has worked with the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedomand various non-governmental organizations to develop the enclosed list ofsuggested questions for the review of Vietnam. These questions cover a wide range of critical issues and abuses,including the Vietnamese government's continuing crackdown on democracyactivists, journalists and other dissidents, its restrictions on religiousfreedom, its pervasive censorship of the internet, and widespread arbitrarydetention and deprivation of due process. Werespectfully request that the United States Mission consider submitting the enclosedquestions during the UPR session for Vietnam. Given that the UPR considers the human rights record of each countryonly once every four years, it is crucial that this opportunity not be missed. Sincerely, ZOE LOFGREN CHRISTOPHER H. SMITHMember ofCongress Member of Congress LORETTASANCHEZ ANH "JOSEPH" CAO Member ofCongress Member of Congress cc: Acting Assistant Secretary of State Karen Stewart, Bureau ofDemocracy, Human Rights, and Labor ActingAssistant Secretary of State Glyn Davies, Bureau of East Asian and PacificAffairs
03.26.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), chair of theHouse Administration Subcommittee on Elections, introduced the VoterRegistration Modernization Act of 2009. The bill, HR 1719, would allowany eligible citizen to register to vote over the Internet for allfederal elections occurring after January 1, 2014. Bill Would Allow Voters to Register and Update Registrations OnlineMarch 26, 2009Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), chair of theHouse Administration Subcommittee on Elections, introduced the VoterRegistration Modernization Act of 2009. The bill, HR 1719, would allowany eligible citizen to register to vote over the Internet for allfederal elections occurring after January 1, 2014. States would berequired to have online registration available on the official publicwebsite of the appropriate election officials. The bill would also:Allow registered voters to updatetheir registrations over the Internet at any time including at thepolling place on Election DayCreate apermanent registration roll by prohibiting purging for non-voting. Avoter may only be removed from the rolls for moving outside the state,death or loss of eligibility under state law for commission of a felonyRequire all states to enroll a voter who has fully completed the online or federal mail voter registration formRequire all states to notify electronically all voters of the location of their precinct and the voting hours "For too long eligible voters have been denied the right toparticipate due to simple registration errors," noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren."The primary reason voters lose their eligibility is because theymove. Allowing a voter to change his or her address online will remedythis problem. This legislation will help free up electionadministration resources while at the same time protecting againstfraud. This is a common sense approach, if people can bank online andshop online, why not register to vote online."
03.24.2009	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued thefollowing statement in support of President Obama's nomination of LuisC. de Baca to be United States Ambassador-at-Large to Monitor andCombat Trafficking in Persons.March 24, 2009Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued thefollowing statement in support of President Obama's nomination of LuisC. de Baca to be United States Ambassador-at-Large to Monitor andCombat Trafficking in Persons.I applaud President Obama for nominating Luis C. de Baca to beUnited States Ambassador-at-Large to Monitor and Combat Trafficking inPersons. Mr. de Baca is an internationally recognized prosecutor withextensive national security and law enforcement expertise who hasdevoted himself to fighting the exploitation of women and children. Mr.de Baca's years of experience prosecuting human traffickers clearlydemonstrates President Obama's dedication to the global fight againsthuman trafficking and slavery. I have had the pleasure of working withMr. de Baca during his service with the staff of the House JudiciaryCommittee, where he played a key role in ensuring the unanimous passageof last year's trafficking reauthorization bill in both Houses ofCongress. Lou de Baca is the right person to continue America's fightagainst human trafficking and slavery, and I strongly support hisconfirmation.
03.17.2009	Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Trent Franks(R-AZ) introduced the bi-partisan, pro-consumer "Cell Tax FairnessAct," which provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatorywireless tax or fee. A typical consumer already pays 15.2% in federal,state, and local taxes on their cell phone bill as compared to 7.1% formost other taxable goods and services.March 17, 2009Washington, D.C. - Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Trent Franks(R-AZ) introduced the bi-partisan, pro-consumer "Cell Tax FairnessAct," which provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatorywireless tax or fee. A typical consumer already pays 15.2% in federal,state, and local taxes on their cell phone bill as compared to 7.1% formost other taxable goods and services. Between January 2003 and July2007, the effective rate of taxation on wireless service increased fourtimes faster than the rate for other taxable goods and services. Thebill does not disturb current state and local taxes on wireless service."The Cell Tax Fairness Act, H.R. 1521, will help further innovationand access in the wireless world," noted Lofgren. "By curtailingfurther increases on wireless taxes and fees, we hope to encourageadditional consumer driven development in wireless technology. The CellTax Fairness Act does not take away any existing revenue for state orlocal governments, it simply calls for a period of tax stabilization.This legislation will ensure that consumers make choices aboutcommunications technology based on the merits of that technology,rather than on the rate of taxation.""During the economic strain of a recession, raising taxes onhard-working American families is the last thing that will bringstability and growth back to our economy." Franks stated. "Due to theexorbitant rate at which cell phone taxes have been rising these pastseveral years, current cell phone customers are already paying two tothree times the amount of taxes that they pay on almost all other goodsand services, for a product that is becoming increasingly important intechnological innovation, including the growing trend among educatorstoward using wireless devices as educational tools. Thus, thebipartisan Cell Tax Fairness Act will place a 5-year moratorium on anynew discriminatory wireless tax or fee, and will help to ensure thatexcessive taxation does not stifle production, consumption, orcontinued innovation in wireless services."
03.09.2009	March 9, 2009U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose)today released the following statement in support of her request forfederal assistance for the Japanese American Museum of San Jose. The Japanese American Museum of San Jose exists to highlight themany contributions that Japanese-Americans have made to Santa ClaraCounty and our country. The museum houses exhibits that honor the tensof thousands of Japanese-Americans who were forcibly relocated andinterned during World War II, the heroic efforts of the 442nd regiment(the most highly decorated military unit of its size in the history ofthe U.S.), and Japanese-Americans who served in the MilitaryIntelligence Service (MIS) in the Pacific Theater. The museum'scompletion will help generate additional tourism to San Jose'sJapantown, one of the last three remaining Japantowns in the USA, whichin turn generates jobs and income for local businesses. I was honoredto have sponsored the request for funds to complete the museum'sconstruction. The $237,500 that the federal government has allocated isless than 10 percent of the total funds that have already been securedfor this project and will help push the already started constructionover the finish line. Senator McCain represents a state that receives $1.19 for everydollar it pays into the federal treasury so it seems surprising that hewould attack funding for a project in California, a state that receives78 cents for every dollar it pays into the federal treasury. I wouldalso expect Senator McCain to recognize that the heroic militaryservice of Japanese-Americans deserves to be documented and passed onto future generations. We all agree with the need to eliminate "pork"in federal expenditures. But to consider the Japanese American Museumof San Jose "pork" instead of a monument to the multi-cultural historyof our Valley and to the sacrifices that Japanese-Americans have madefor their country is a serious even insulting mistake.
03.05.2009	March 5, 2009Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today spoke on the Floor of the HouseOf Representatives in favor of H.R. 1106, Helping Families Save TheirHomes Act and in support of the Lofgren/Taucher/Cardoza bankruptcyamendment. Click image below for video of the floor statement.
02.27.2009	Federal Grants Will Help Expand Affordable Housing OptionsFebruary 27, 2009U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose)today announced that the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County willreceive over $9 million dollars in federal assistance aimed atexpanding access to affordable housing and reducing homelessness. Thesefederal grants, which Congress authorized in the recently passedAmerican Recovery and Reinvestment Act, are allocated directly to theCity and County, bypassing state government, to fund local projects.The City of San Jose is slated to receive $6,829,226 and Santa ClaraCounty will receive $2,286,123. "It's important that recovery funds are already flowing to ourcommunity," noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "These funds will help workingfamilies who are victims of the current economy find proper housing. Inthese troubling times, the ranks of those seeking housing help hasincreased dramatically. These funds will not only help victims of therecession but will provide an economic boost to the local economy."
02.26.2009	February 26, 2009Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today spoke on the Floor of the HouseOf Representatives in favor of allowing bankruptcy judges to modify theterms of loan for existing mortgages. Click image below for video ofthe floor statement.
02.25.2009	Bill Would Promote the use of Innovative Technologies in Reducing Energy ConsumptionFebruary 25, 2009Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Zach Wamp (R- TN) today introducedlegislation to authorize the House of Representatives to carry out aseries of demonstration projects that would promote the use of new andinnovative technology to reducing energy consumption, promote energyefficiency, and trim costs in House operations. The bill authorizes $25million in FY 2010 for these projects and requires that the ChiefAdministrative Officer of the House submit a report detailing theprojects and its results."I'm hopeful that this legislation will help put the House ofRepresentatives on the path to a smaller environmental footprint," saidRep. Zoe Lofgren. "The pilot projects that this legislation authorizeswill help the House administrators determine which technologies arebest suited to our unique institution. Congress should continue to leadthe way to a greener future and this bill is a strong step forward.""Alternative sources, like the solid-oxide fuel cell that is beingsuccessfully demonstrated in the Tennessee Valley Corridor, should playa key role in the energy efficiency of the Capitol complex," said Rep.Zach Wamp. "This legislation would make the House of Representatives amodel in using cutting-edge technology for clean energy as part of anall-of-the-above approach to leading the world on energy solutions."
02.13.2009	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today released the followingstatement in response to the final passage of H.R. 1, the AmericanRecovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.Faced with the single greatest economic crisis this country hasseen in over a generation, Congress today passed a compromise economicrecovery package that will put Americans back to work. This package isfar from an economic cure all, but it is a strong move in the rightdirection. Less than a month into a new Obama Administration, Americahas begun moving down the road to recovery. It's not going to be aneasy journey. It took years of neglect and greed to get us here and itwill take time to get us out. But, it's a journey that we as Americanshave made before and can make again.This package, which I expect will be making its way to thePresident's desk shortly, will help put more than 3.5 million Americansback to work and will give 95 percent of working Americans an immediatetax break. In California alone, it's estimated that this recoverypackage could generate nearly 400,000 new jobs. It provides forsubstantial investments in our national infrastructure, funding newroads, bridges, mass transit, energy efficient buildings, floodcontrol, water treatment, schools, and laboratories. It will focusresearch into the technologies that will power our new green economyand help lead our nation to energy independence. At home in California,we'll see laboratories expand, new high speed rail lines laid, roadsand levies repaired, schools upgraded, health care access expanded, andnew green collar jobs created. We will turn this crisis into an opportunity. We'll putAmericans to work, emerging stronger and better prepared for future.This package is an invest in our future prosperity.
01.28.2009	American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Would Bring Vital Funds to CAJanuary 28, 2009st1:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) }Today, California Democratic CongressionalDelegation (CDCD) Chair Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released thefollowing funding analysis of H.R. 1, the American Recovery andReinvestment Act of 2009. The bill, which the House of Representativespassed today on a 244 to 188 vote, will deliver much needed federalassistance to California. "With California's unemployment rate soaring to 9.3 percent and noend in sight to our economic woes, this bill will give our state somehelp," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "This package is a step in the longjourney to economic recovery. It makes vital and necessary improvementsin our infrastructure, schools, law enforcement, health care, andsustainable energy. It will also help put thousands of Californiansback to work and help jump start our local economies." California will receive more than $32 billion in economic recovery funding under ARRA [1] State Fiscal Stabilization Fund: $7,854,800,000Title I $1,591,028,000IDEA $1,422,484,000Education Technology $106,715,000Education Construction $2,430,042,000Head Start $82,495,000Child Care & Development $220,273,000Employment Training Adult $80,927,000 Youth $188,507,000 Dislocated Worker $179,993,000 Employment Services $58,411,000Community Services Block Grant $89,157,000Low-Income Home Energy Assistance $44,818,000Elderly Nutritional Services $21,702,000Preventative Health and Services $20,634,000Byrne Justice Assistance Grant $330,312,000Infrastructure Investment Highway and Bridges $2,796,972,000 Transit Capital $950,838,000 Fixed Guideway Modernization $294,322,000 Clean Water SRF $415,157,000Supplemental Nutrition Assistance $1,466,000,000(Formerly Food Stamps Program)Supplemental Security Income $710,700,000Emergency Shelter Grant Program $190,000,000Medicaid Assistance $11,069,212,000 _______________ $32,615,499,000 Additionally:12.3 million California workers will benefit from a new Making Work Pay Credit of up to $500 per worker Almost 2 million children will benefit from the Child Tax Credit ProvisionOver 2.3 million jobless workers will benefit from unemployment insurance provisions744,000 California students will benefit from an increase in the Federal Pell Grant Program[1]Numbers complied from state-by-state data released by the HouseAppropriations Committee, House Transportation and InfrastructureCommittee, and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
01.21.2009	January 21, 2009Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today releasedthe following statement in response to her selection as Chair of theCommittee on Standards of Official Conduct. "I'm honored to have been selected to chair the Committee onStandards of Official Conduct," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "Having servedfor six years as a member of the committee earlier in my Congressionaltenure, I've seen firsthand the immensely important role it plays.Without the public's trust and confidence, Government loses itslegitimacy. The Committee on Standards of Official Conduct exists toensure that the House of Representatives maintains that trust andconfidence, and in turn its legitimacy. The American people deserve a Congress that holds their interestabove all others. I pledge to work in a bipartisan manner to ensurethat the House of Representatives maintains the highest of ethicalstandards and holds the public interest above all.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congressrepresenting most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Sheis the Chair of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct.She also serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee onImmigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and InternationalLaw. She Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections andserves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgrenis Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegationconsisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House ofRepresentatives from California.
01.09.2009	Citigroup Agrees to Compromise on Mortgage Bankruptcy Law Changest1:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) }Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today released the following statement in response to Citigroup’s agreement to accept a change to bankruptcy law allowing judges to modify existing mortgage agreements during bankruptcy proceedings. “This compromise agreement will go a long way in helping many American families stay in their homes during these difficult economic times,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “After spending considerable time and effort working with my colleagues in the House to secure these changes in the law, I’m delighted that we are one step closer to making it a reality. These modifications to bankruptcy law will be a major and welcomed addition to the upcoming stimulus package. Tens of thousands of working Americans will benefit from these changes, and in the long run so will our economy.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.09.2009	Citigroup Agrees to Compromise on Mortgage Bankruptcy Law ChangeJanuary 9, 2009Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today releasedthe following statement in response to Citigroup's agreement to accepta change to bankruptcy law allowing judges to modify existing mortgageagreements during bankruptcy proceedings. "This compromise agreement will go a long way in helping manyAmerican families stay in their homes during these difficult economictimes," noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. "After spending considerable time andeffort working with my colleagues in the House to secure these changesin the law, I'm delighted that we are one step closer to making it areality. These modifications to bankruptcy law will be a major andwelcomed addition to the upcoming stimulus package. Tens of thousandsof working Americans will benefit from these changes, and in the longrun so will our economy." Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her eighth term in Congressrepresenting most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Sheserves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration,Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She alsoChairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves onthe House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chairof the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives fromCalifornia.
01.07.2009	Program Mirrors Judicial and Executive Branch ClerkshipsJanuary 7, 2009Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) todayre-introduced legislation to create the Daniel Webster CongressionalClerkship Program. Named after the noted American orator andlegislator, the program would give highly qualified law schoolgraduates the option of serving in either House or Senate offices.Eligible candidates would be evenly divided between minority andmajority, with the program being managed by the Committee on HouseAdministration and the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration.The program, which is similar to those in both the Executive andJudicial Branches, gives talented young legal professionals anopportunity to participate first hand in the legislative process. TheHouse of Representatives unanimously passed an identical measure in theprevious Congress. "The Daniel Webster Congressional Clerkship Program would allow ourfuture leaders an early opportunity to serve in Congress," noted Rep.Zoe Lofgren. "Many of our nation's greatest leaders served as lawclerks early in their careers. This legislation would simply putCongress on par with both the Executive and Judicial Branches whoalready offer clerkships to exemplary young lawyers. I'd like to thankSenator Schumer for his support and for introducing a companion measurein the United States Senate. I'd also like to acknowledge theco-sponsorship and support of my fellow Californian Rep. Dan Lungren(R-CA)." Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congressrepresenting most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. Sheserves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration,Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She alsoChairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves onthe House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chairof the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives fromCalifornia.
12.16.2008	U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) is proud to announce that the San Jose Conservation Corps & Charter School and YouthBuild San Jose will be receiving an $800,000 dollar grant from the United States Department of Labor. The funds will be used to educate and train high school dropouts and other at risk youth. The funds will support programs that help these young adults earn their high school diploma and receive paid job training in the varying construction fields. I"’m delighted to announce this grant for the San Jose Conservation Corps & Charter School and YouthBuild USA San Jose,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “These programs are absolutely critical in ensuring that at risk youth do not fall through the cracks and end-up in jail or worse. This grant is an investment in the future of our community. I’d also like to recognize Robert Hennessy for his continued dedication and work, which have made this program possible.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.10.2008	U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement on her vote to pass HR 7321, The Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, which provides up to $15 billion in short-term bridge loans to domestic auto manufacturers: I voted to pass this bill because the collapse of any of the Big Three would have very serious results for the economy. While the automakers may have created many of their own problems, their collapse would go far beyond them and their employees. Economists have speculated that hundreds, if not thousands, of part suppliers, dealers, and other related businesses would be forced to shutter their doors. Millions of hard working Americans from across our nation, including many in Silicon Valley, would suddenly find themselves out of work during one of the deepest recessions this country has ever seen. This bill, while far from perfect, protects taxpayers by granting the government equity in the companies, banning the dividends, bonuses, and golden parachutes.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.24.2008	Pocket Toy Safety Guides Available for DownloadRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today unveiled several updated downloadable toy safety guides for the 2008 holiday season. Please note the guides requires Adobe Acrobat to view. Click here for the English version of the guide.Click here for the Vietnamese version of the guide.Click here for the Spanish Version of the guide. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.20.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today urged all her constituents to visit the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) website and check for possible unclaimed tax refunds.Tax payers should visits the IRS site at: http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=188083,00.html, to verify if they have unclaimed tax refunds.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.03.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.Many have claimed that this bill is a bailout for Wall Street, in reality this is about protecting the entire American economy. Over the past week it’s become clear that we are facing an unprecedented freeze up of the world’s credit markets. These credit markets are the life blood of the global economy, without them economic activity slows to a crawl.Within the last two days, California’s Governor and Treasurer have both noted that without access to credit, the state will not be able to meet its financial obligations by the end of the month. The outcome for the state is dire, with teachers, police officers, nursing homes staff, and countless other state and local government employees will go unpaid.Wall Street’s failures have now spread throughout the economy. The everyday transactions that keep businesses open and our lives moving forward are now threatened. Credit for payroll, inventory, and capital improvements has dried up. Students seeking loans are finding few open doors. Farmers buying feed and seed are finding once plentiful credit evaporating. Faced with this, I joined with a bipartisan majority of the Congress in voting for the economic stabilization package. While far from perfect, and loaded with many distasteful additions from the Senate, I felt compelled to vote for this bill. In the end, the necessity to act overwhelmed the distaste for this package. Without its passage, I fear that we could have seen a devastating downward spiral of economic disaster. Our nation has a hard road ahead, and this bill is only the first in a series that will be needed to reinforce our economy and restore sensible regulation to our financial sector. I’m confident that this great nation will weather this storm and unite under new leadership. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.26.2008	Bill Provides Tax Credit for Investments in Clean and Renewable EnergyRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 7060, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act, which encourages investments in clean energy by extending and expanding tax incentives for renewable energy. This bill will create and retain hundreds of thousands of “green collar” jobs, spur American innovation and business investment, cut taxes for millions of Americans, and close loopholes allowing U.S. executives to avoid federal taxes by shipping investment overseas. This legislation provides for: Eight-year extension of the investment tax credit for solar energy;Two-year extension of the R&D tax credit;One-year extension of the tax credit for energy derived from wind;Extension of the production tax credit (PTC) for energy derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, waves and tides, landfill gas and solid waste;Tax credits for the purchase of fuel-efficient, plug-in hybrid vehicles; and,Incentives for the production of homegrown renewable fuels, such as biodiesel and renewable diesel, and for the installation of E-85 pumps for consumers to fill up flex-fuel vehicles. “These new tax credits will help ensure that Silicon Valley’s entrepreneurs remain at the forefront of clean and renewable energy development,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill will help create thousands of new ¥green collar’ jobs and help reinforce our economy and national security. For far too long our national energy policy has been mired in the past, subsidizing large oil and gas companies at the expense of new and innovative technologies. Congress is taking a page from Silicon Valley’s playbook and embracing new technologies to reduce our dependence on dirty foreign oil.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.18.2008	Lofgren Bill Would Block New Tax Increases on Cell Phone ServiceToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today hailed the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law for holding a hearing on H.R. 5793, the Cell Tax Fairness Act of 2008, which she introduced earlier this year. Rep. Lofgren’s opening statement in support of the bill is below:I decided to introduce the Cell Tax Fairness Act because I see wireless service and mobile devices playing an essential role in the future of affordable broadband access to the Internet.The Federal Communications Commission has estimated that in 2007, 68 percent of all new broadband subscriptions were wireless subscriptions. That number takes on added significance when you consider that the United States has slipped to the point where we rank 16th in broadband penetration among industrial nations. With the spectrum freed up by the FCC’s 700 Megahertz auction, wireless holds tremendous progress as a means to narrow the broadband gap between the US and other countries and as a means to give low consumers affordable access to the Internet. This is good news not just for the phone companies and their customers, but also for innovators in other fields. Spend a few minutes with an iPhone and you’ll see just how far wireless innovation has progressed in a relatively short period of time. People increasingly rely on wireless technology for basic voice service. That reliance makes the demand for wireless service quite inelastic: even when the price goes up, people will continue to pay a lot more before looking for alternatives. This fact makes wireless service a very attractive target for taxation. In fact, consumers pay more than twice as much in taxes for their cell phone service as they do for other goods and services. The average wireless consumer pays 15.2% in combined federal, state, and local taxes, compared to only 7.1% for other goods and services. That tax burden is significant when one considers that more than 39 million American wireless subscribers earn less than $25,000 a year. I want to stress that this effect on consumers is significant and shouldn’t be overlooked. I know that some opponents of the bill characterize it as a hand-out to the telecommunications industry. I find that charge somewhat ironic. If you consult my record on issues such as net neutrality, open access, and spectrum policy, you’ll see that I’m not in the business of doing favors for the industry. But taxes do impact the way that consumers adopt and use technology. And that impact is most pronounced among lower income consumers. That concern is hugely relevant in this discussion.As someone who served as a county supervisor for 13 years, I understand the plight that state and local governments are in. When counties and municipalities are bracing for an economic downturn, it is to be expected that they will turn to targets like wireless service, just as they have with internet service in the past.But the resulting tax burden is simply not justifiable. Accordingly, for the same reasons that the Internet Tax Moratorium is essential to growth and innovation on the internet, the Cell Tax Fairness Act is essential to growth and innovation in mobile wireless technology and service.When it comes to innovative technologies and industries, it is crucial that consumers and businesses base their choices on the technology itself, rather than on regulatory and tax burdens. That is as true for wireless subscribers as it is for internet subscribers and that is why the Cell Tax Fairness Act just makes sense.And it is important to note that HR 5793 will not affect any taxes on wireless service that are currently in place. Nor will HR 5793 prevent state and local governments from enacting non-discriminatory measures that have the effect of raising taxes on wireless service.The bill applies only to discriminatory taxes on wireless service that are imposed after the date of enactment of the bill. The goal is not to carve wireless service out from future tax increases, but to ensure that the burden of any such increases does not fall disproportionately on wireless service and wireless consumers. It is also important to note that the moratorium is temporary. There has been a lot of interest from both governmental entities and industry in reforming the way that we tax telecommunications services. It is my hope that the parties will take advantage of the moratorium to accomplish meaningful reform in that area. Finally, I want to mention that this legislation has overwhelming support both in Congress, where it has garnered 130 cosponsors, and in the private sector. I request unanimous consent to place in the record letters of support from the US Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Neighborhoods, and the Black Chamber of Commerce. I would also like to that Mr. Cannon and his staff for all of their hard work in securing and expanding bipartisan support for this legislation. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.16.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives today gave final approval to H.R. 5938, a cyber crime initiative which will crack down on spyware. H.R. 5938 was approved by the U.S. Senate on July 30, 2008. This legislation will now be sent to the President for his signature. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) issued the following statement:“I’m happy that this bill is now on its way to the President’s desk,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “This legislation takes a measured and balanced approach to dealing with the growing impact of spyware on our nation’s productivity. As amended, H.R. 5938 correctly focuses on criminal behavior rather than imposing technological mandates. This legislation will give law enforcement important and much-needed tools to assist in the effort to combat increasingly sophisticated cybercriminals.”"We are pleased that the Congress has passed legislation, H.R. 5938, which, in part, enhances federal criminal laws to combat those who use spyware to crack into consumers’ computers to steal personal information,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “Congress has taken the right approach to this issue and one that we have advocated through our legislation for many Congresses: a targeted approach of going after the bad actors while refraining from imposing excessive regulations on the entire online community. This is an important first step that focuses on behavior rather than technology. However, there is still work left to be done and we look forward to working to update the law even further to make sure that consumers’ computers are protected from these aggressive criminals.”Representatives Lofgren and Goodlatte joined together earlier this Congress to introduce H.R. 1525, the Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act, which will help Americans combat spyware and phishing scams. This legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by voice vote on May 22, 2007, addresses the most egregious activities that are conducted via spyware and makes those activities criminal offenses punishable by both imprisonment and fines. The I-SPY Prevention Act gives law enforcement the tools it needs to fight spyware while permitting legitimate use of technology that enhances users' experience on the Internet.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.16.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today hailed the House’s passage of H.R. 6899, Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act.The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act is a balanced compromise package that will help lessen our dependence on foreign oil and increase our national security. This legislation also focuses heavily on developing and expanding clean renewable energy sources and technologies that will create thousands of new green collar American jobs. It expands and extends tax incentives for renewable energy projects, including solar and wind, which will help the Silicon Valley companies that are at the forefront of such research continue their efforts. Additionally, it will require oil companies to drill on the 68 million acres of federal land that they have already leased, but are not employing, before they receive new leases. It would prevent offshore drilling within 50 miles of the coast, but would allow states to determine drilling for themselves. Without this measure, drilling would be permitted as close as 3 miles from shore over the objection of states.Our current energy situation needs to be dealt with, but it must be handled in a responsible and comprehensive fashion. We cannot make the same mistakes as we did in the past, letting another opportunity to reduce our dependence on oil slip by as we did in the 1970s. This legislation strikes the proper balance and will lead us to a more prosperous and safer future.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.30.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 6633, the Employee Verification Amendment Act of 2008.I rise today in support for HR 6633. This bill, negotiated by Members of both parties, would extend the Basic Pilot (or “E-Verify”) Program for five years, while also ensuring that the Social Security Administration (SSA) can continue to participate in the program without endangering its core mission of providing needed benefits to our seniors and the disabled.Without this bill, the authorization for the Basic Pilot Program will expire in November.HR 6633 also commissions two studies, which should help Congress evaluate the Basic Pilot Program as it continues to work through the issues raised by electronic employment eligibility verification systems.One of the studies seeks the causes, the remedies, and the effects of tentative non-confirmations of employment eligibility.Implicit in the concept of false negatives is the converse — false positives — and we naturally contemplate that GAO study will address the question of erroneous confirmations as well.To understand the effectiveness of the Basic Pilot, we must not only know about U.S. workers falsely denied the authority to work, we must also know when it clears people who are not authorized to work.This Congress has been very active on the issue of electronic employment verification. Several committees, including the Judiciary and Ways and Means Committees, have held no less than five hearings on the subject. The Judiciary Committee alone held three hearings over the past year on electronic employment verification.In those hearings, we’ve learned that, because the Department of Homeland Security relies on the Social Security Administration’s databases and staff to query work authorization and fix erroneous records, the Basic Pilot Program places significant burdens on the SSA. We don’t want to jeopardize the SSA’s ability to carry out its core mission, which is to provide benefits to America’s senior citizens and to disabled Americans.We’ve confirmed that electronic employment verification systems pose complicated issues, issues with serious consequences for American workers, who could lose their jobs, and even their right to work, if employment verification isn’t done right.We heard testimony in April 2007 from the Service Employees International Union, in which we learned that, “[u]nless database errors are cured, 24,000 of the 300,000 estimated workers in each congressional district” would be erroneously denied eligibility to work by Basic Pilot.That’s 24,000 legal workers in each of our districts who could be stripped of their right to work because the government can’t design a proper verification system.An independent evaluation of the Basic Pilot program commissioned by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and conducted by Westat identifies numerous troubling issues with how the Basic Pilot Program works. The Westat report documented abuse and misuse of Basic Pilot by employers.For example, twenty two percent of employers who responded to Westat’s survey reported that they restricted work assignments to employees contesting tentative nonconfirmations. It also noted significant privacy concerns in the program.In short, we’ve learned that there is much work still to be done, and there are many questions left to be answered.Based on these findings, I do not believe that we can permanently reauthorize the Basic Pilot Program or make it mandatory at this time. But as we continue to work to comprehensively reform our immigration system, we should allow Basic Pilot to continue as a voluntary program.I would like to especially thank my colleagues, Mike McNulty from New York, Lamar Smith from Texas, and Sam Johnson from Texas, for their tremendous efforts in working to negotiate this consensus bill and bring it to the floor today.I look forward to working with my colleagues to reform our nation’s immigration laws, and to improve the electronic employment verification process. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6633. I reserve the balance of my time.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.29.2008	Bill Would Protect Data PrivacyRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 6588, which prevents customs officials from using the pretext of border searches to conduct groundless search and seizure of Americans’ laptops and other electronic devices when they return from overseas travel. The bill does not prevent the search or seizure of laptops or other electronic devices when legitimate law enforcement purposes justify that search or seizure. “We live in an era where data can be worth millions or even billions,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Many business travelers are now wary of traveling to and from the United States because they fear that their legitimate and proprietary business data will be seized at our borders. Further, the record of the Department of Homeland Security in protecting data is a poor one as evidenced by this weeks GAO report on government data security. Business travelers have a legitimate fear that their proprietary data maybe compromised and exploited by competitors after seizure by DHS. This legislation protects the privacy of travelers’ data, while preserving the government’s ability to search and seize electronic devices in appropriate circumstances.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.28.2008	Allows for Public/Private PartnershipRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced the Charles H.W. Meehan Law Library Improvement and Modernization Act, which authorizes $3.5 million for augmenting, maintaining, and administering the operations of the law library. The bill, which is co-sponsored by Rep. Dan Lungren (R-CA), also authorizes a line item within the Library of Congress budget to ensure the authority and modernization of the Law Library, and authorizes the Law Library to receive funds and in-kind donations from outside sources. This legislation is named after Charles H.W. Meehan, the First Law Librarian of Congress. “The Law Library of Congress maintains a unique and world renowned collection,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill will help ensure that the Law Library will have the resources needed to maintain and expand its collections while at the same time modernizing its systems. The Law Library is an invaluable resource, both to the Congress and the nation, and we have an obligation to future generations to provide for its continuation through the establishment of the Charles HW Meehan Program.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.28.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today issued the following statement in response to the release of a joint Department of Justice Office of Professional Responsibility and Office of Inspector General report on politicized hiring at the Department of Justice. Instead of fixing our broken immigration system, the White House played the politics of patronage. Their illegal actions delayed DOJ's ability to fill positions on the immigration courts, which, when coupled with dilution of the bench with inexperienced candidates, has served only to clog up the immigration enforcement system. Once again, this Administration’s partisan interests have trumped the needs of our nation. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.16.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today issued the following statement on a recent Heritage Foundation memorandum on non-citizen voting. I have recently been made aware of a Heritage Foundation “Legal Memorandum” authored by failed FEC nominee Hans von Spakovsky entitled “The Threat of Non-Citizen Voting.” After reviewing this “legal” memorandum, I’ve come to the realization that it is nothing more than political fear mongering masquerading as scholarly research. I’d go so far as to characterize it as intellectual fraud. The report cites a few anecdotal sources as evidence that undocumented immigrants are actively working to undermine our election systems. Little verifiable evidence exists to support such claims. By far, the largest problem facing our voting systems is not non-citizen voting, it is the continued disenfranchisement of minority and working poor Americans. Republican operatives have continually used “voter fraud” as a way to justify their own efforts to disfranchise minority voters. This memo is yet another piece of this disinformation campaign, which is designed to stoke the fears of Americans. After participating in numerous hearings and listening to countless hours of testimony on our elections process, the true fear is that Americans from all across the country are being actively denied a voice in our political process. In light of recent votes by my Republican colleagues in the House it’s also becoming quite clear that they prefer disenfranchisement. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.15.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today issued the following statement on H.R. 5803. I introduced H.R. 5803 at the request of election advocates and elected officials as a simple solution to deal with some of the problems jurisdictions may face on Election Day. This legislation is a straightforward and measured step towards improving the reliability of our election systems, and is widely supported by state and local election officials. While moving this bill forward, it’s become quite clear that Republican opposition to this bill is part of the GOP’s continuing strategy of disenfranchising voters and suppressing votes. While I’m disappointed by its failure to pass the House, I will continue working to ensure that state and local election officials have the tools they need to guarantee that all Americans have a voice in our political process. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.14.2008	Program Mirrors Judicial and Executive Branch ClerkshipsReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Dan Lungren (R-Gold River) today introduced legislation to create the Daniel Webster Congressional Clerkship Program. Named after the noted American orator and legislator, the program would create a pool of highly qualified law school graduates who would then be eligible to serve in House and Senate offices. Slots for eligible candidates would be evenly divided between minority and majority, with the program being managed by the Committee on House Administration and the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration. The program, which is similar to those already in place in both the Executive and Judicial Branches, gives talented young legal professionals an opportunity to participate first hand in the legislative process. “The Daniel Webster Congressional Clerkship Program would allow some of the most gifted of our future leaders to serve in Congress,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Many of our nation’s greatest leaders served as law clerks early in their careers. This legislation would put Congress on par with both the Executive and Judicial Branches who already offer clerkships to exemplary young lawyers.” “The opportunity to be part of the legislative process and gain first hand knowledge will benefit both the Congress and the greater legal community in the future. Looking back I wish I could have participated in a program such as this when I was just out of law school,” Lungren said. “There are a lot of talented students graduating from our law schools and this clerkship program is the perfect vehicle for Congress to benefit from this pool of talent.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.11.2008	Bill Would Promote the use of Innovative Technologies in Reducing Energy ConsumptionReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Zach Wamp (R- TN) today introduced legislation to authorize the House of Representatives to carry out a series of demonstration projects that would promote the use of new and innovative technology to reducing energy consumption, promote energy efficiency, and trim costs in House operations. The bill authorizes five million dollars in FY 2009 and 2010 for these projects and requires that the Chief Administrative Officer of the House submit a report detailing the projects and its results. “This legislation will help the House of Representatives review and test new technologies that could significantly reduce its impact on the environment, “noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “While the scope of the bill is limited, it will help the House determine which technologies are best suited to its need. The pilot projects that this legislation will authorize, will be vital as the House moves forward on its green initiatives.” “This legislation will allow the House of Representatives to be a model in using cutting-edge technology for clean energy,” said Rep. Wamp, co-chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. “Alternative sources, like the solid-oxide fuel cell that is being successfully demonstrated in the Tennessee Valley Corridor, should play a key role in the energy efficiency of the Capitol complex. I’m for an all-of-the-above approach to leading the world on energy solutions.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.11.2008	Administration Has Failed to Adopt Regulations to Protect Crime Victims Who Cooperate With Law EnforcementJudiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Immigration Subcommittee Chair Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff demanding that the Department issue long overdue regulations on the adjustment of status for U and T visa holders. Congress created these visa categories, which allow immigrant victims of trafficking and other serious crimes who assist law enforcement to obtain permanent residence, in 2000. Eight years later, DHS has yet to issue regulations on the adjustment of status for eligible U and T visas. "Victims of crimes such as modern-day slavery should not have to fear deportation for reporting their abuse and cooperating with law enforcement." said Conyers. "An 8-year delay in issuing regulations is inexplicable, given the bipartisan consensus that these people deserve legal protection.” "Congress overwhelmingly passed the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Act in 2000 with a promise to survivors — cooperation in bringing your tormenters to justice would be rewarded, not punished," added Lofgren. "It is high time that the Administration delivers on that promise." Full text of the letter below: July 10, 2008 The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: We write to inquire about the status of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regulations for the adjustment of status of T and U nonimmigrants. Congress has been waiting for almost eight years, since the beginning of this Administration, for the issuance of these regulations.In 2000, as a part of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (VTVPA), Congress created the T and U visas for immigrant victims of trafficking and other serious crimes who assist U.S. law enforcement agencies. When regulations implementing these provisions had not been issued more than five years after the enactment of VTVPA, Congress mandated the issuance of these regulations within 180 days of the enactment of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (VAWA 2005). VAWA 2005 became law on January 5, 2006, so the regulations should have been issued on or before July 5, 2006. Despite the enactment of VTVPA eight years ago, and an explicit Congressional mandate to issue the implementing regulations more than two years ago, DHS has yet to issue the T and U adjustment regulations. The failure to timely issue this rule has had concrete, detrimental impact on the lives of crime victims and their families. Attached is a collection of real life stories of T and U visa holders who have been harmed by the inability to adjust their status. According to a May 9, 2008 White House memo, “regulations to be finalized in this Administration should be proposed no later than June 1, 2008, and final regulations should be issued no later than November 1, 2008.” In light of this memo, and the passage of the June deadline for proposed regulations, we are very concerned that your Department will not be successful in issuing the T and U adjustment regulations before the end of this Administration, despite a wait of almost eight years.Given the extraordinary delay of these regulations for this particularly vulnerable class, we strongly encourage you to issue these regulations as soon as possible as an interim final rule with a concurrent opportunity for notice and comment, as was done with regulations on U nonimmigrant status in September 2007. Thank you for your timely consideration of this matter. We would greatly appreciate a response regarding this matter no later than July 15, 2008. Sincerely, John Conyers, Jr. Zoe LofgrenChairman ChairwomanThe Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, & International Law Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.09.2008	Report Summarizes Green Tech Event Held in Silicon ValleyReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-Campbell) recently sent Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner copies of a report summarizing a recent discussion with Silicon Valley industry leaders titled, “How Going Green Saves Money, Jobs, and Improves Lives.” The discussion and conference, held at the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose, CA, featured leaders from both the private sector and public sector highlighting and discussing their efforts to reduce carbon footprints by creating new ways to use energy more efficiently and generate power in a more sustainable manner. The forum, which was convened by Rep. Lofgren, included Rep. Mike Honda (D-Campbell), House of Representatives Chief Administrative Officer Dan Beard, San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed, Santa Clara County Supervisor Blanca Alvarado, and senior executives from local Fortune 500 companies. The report was also made available to all member offices digitally. Full text of the letter below:Link to report: /Media/File/PDFs/Greening%20Report.pdf The Honorable Nancy Pelosi The Honorable John A. BoehnerSpeaker Minority LeaderUnited States House of Representatives United States House of RepresentativesH-223 U.S. Capitol Building H-204 U.S. Capitol BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker and Republican Leader Boehner: On April 28, 2008, we hosted a panel discussion and meeting with Silicon Valley industry leaders titled, “How Going Green Saves Money, Jobs, and Improves Lives” at the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose, CA. The enclosed report presents a summary of the lessons learned that can be applied to the House of Representatives’ operations in support of the Green the Capitol initiative. At the panel discussion, the private sector and the public sector shared the steps they are taking to reduce their carbon footprint by creating new ways to use energy more efficiently and generate power in a more sustainable manner. The benefits of going green are not limited to improving the environment. Companies have also improved efficiency and lowered costs. Applied Materials estimates that by installing solar panels it will create 900 jobs. Adobe installed 23,000 sensors, on their office towers and was able to monitor and control electricity consumption, allowing the sensors to pay for themselves in 8 weeks. Adobe also made the switch to green nontoxic cleaning products which have saved money, kept the cleaning crew healthier, and spared Adobe employees from the harmful effects of being exposed to noxious fumes. If we were to make changes like these here at the Capitol it would translate to significant savings for taxpayers.At our request, Chief Administrative Officer Beard also attended the discussion. With the cooperation of his office we believe that these straightforward, but innovative, recommendations will make a significant impact in encouraging sustainable operations for the House community. Greening does not begin or end within our Capitol community, and we need to learn from the successful practices of both government and private sector. We respectfully urge that the House draw upon these private sector best practices as it continues its historic effort to Green the Capitol. If you would like more information or care to discuss the enclosed report and recommendations, please do not hesitate to contact us.Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Mike Honda Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.03.2008	Inspector General Report Highlights ICE’s Detainee Healthcare FailuresRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to a recent Department of Homeland Security Inspector General report on the death of immigration detainees in Immigration and Custom Enforcement (ICE) custody and on ICE medical policies. It’s quite clear from the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) report that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) needs to improve. The OIG’s report noted serious systemic failures with respect to ICE policies and procedures. Notably it found that, contrary to ICE’s recent testimony before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, ICE has not been reporting detainee deaths to the OIG. The report also lists numerous other problem areas with ICE detention policies, including: failure to address severe medical staffing shortages; failure to respond to sick call requests in a timely manner; failure to establish procedures for dealing with detainees who have infectious diseases; failure to adequately monitor its facilities for adherence to established standards; failure to comply with State laws requiring the reporting of detainee deaths; failure to establish an electronic health records (EHR) system; and failure to separate criminal from non-criminal detainees.I continue to be troubled by the cavalier attitude that ICE leadership seems to have when it comes to our obligation to treat those detained with minimum standards of care. Many of those in immigration custody are there for minor administrative and paperwork related mistakes or because they have sought political asylum under the law. Their detention should not be a death sentence.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.23.2008	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently authored a letter that was also signed by Reps. Tom Davis (R-VA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), James McGovern (D-NJ), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), Edward Royce (R-CA), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Michael Honda (D-CA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), calling on President Bush to directly address human rights during the upcoming visit of Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung to the White House. The letter also urges that the administration redesignate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.Full text of the letter below:The Honorable George W. BushPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear President Bush:In light of the upcoming visit of Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung to the White House, we write to express our strong concerns regarding human rights conditions in Vietnam. Despite Vietnam’s claims to the contrary, human rights conditions in Vietnam have steadily deteriorated. We hope that you will use Prime Minister Dung’s visit as an opportunity to address these deteriorating conditions. We also strongly urge you to redesignate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom has recommended that Vietnam be named a CPC every year since 2001. The State Department followed this recommendation in 2004 and 2005 but removed this CPC designation in November 2006. Since then, the Commission has continued to recommend CPC status for Vietnam. This designation was again recommended by the Commission in its May 2008 Annual Report: The Commission maintains that the State Department’s removal of the CPC designation for Vietnam in November 2006 was premature. In addition to the fact of ongoing religious freedom violations, removing the CPC designation suspended the diplomatic framework that had led to a productive bilateral engagement on religious freedom and other human rights concerns and therefore removed the potential incentives and leverage needed to urge the Vietnamese government to continue to improve its human rights record. Thus, in order to address Vietnam’s persistent, severe religious freedom concerns and articulate fully to the Vietnamese government that religious freedom and related human rights are critical matters affecting bilateral relations, the Commission urges the U.S. government to re-designate Vietnam a CPC. We are also very concerned about the numerous “prisoners of concern” currently being held in Vietnam as well as the State Department’s failure to acknowledge this problem. In testimony before the United States Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee in March 2008, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Christopher Hill stated that “all those individuals that the United States had identified as prisoners of concern for reasons connected to their faith” had been released by Vietnam and that for this and other reasons Vietnam “no longer qualifies as a severe violator of religious freedom.” However, the Commission calls into question the State Department's rationale for this finding: The Commission believes that the State Department’s attempts to define religious prisoners as those arrested for “reasons connected to their faith” makes too rigid a distinction between “political” and “religious” activity not consistent with international human rights law. The Commission is convinced that there are scores of religious prisoners of concern, who have been detained and imprisoned, in part, for their attempts to exercise their religious freedom or to advocate on behalf of it. They include Nguyen Van Dai and Fr. Nguyen Van Ly and Hoa Hao, Cao Dai, Khmer, and UBCV Buddhists. In addition, the Commission reports that there are hundreds of Montagnard Protestants, who have been imprisoned following 2001 and 2004 demonstrations for land rights and religious freedom. The Commission asserts that these religious prisoners of concern should be included in any discussion of whether Vietnam is, to use the language of the International Religious Freedom Act, a “severe violator of religious freedom.” These detentions are in violation of international human rights instruments, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Again, we hope that you will use Prime Minister Dung’s upcoming visit as an opportunity to address the concerns we have described. We also strongly urge you to redesignate Vietnam as a CPC, as recommended by the Commission in its May 2008 report. United States interests in Vietnam should not be encompassed solely by trade, and we believe that the redesignation of Vietnam as a CPC will affirm our nation’s role as an international protector of human rights. Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren Tom DavisLoretta Sanchez Ileana Ros-LehtinenJames McGovern Frank WolfNeil Abercrombie Edward RoyceMaurice Hinchey Trent FranksMichael Honda Dana Rohrabacher cc: The Honorable Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.23.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) recently introduced H.R. 6339, the Federal Employees Deserve to Volunteer on the Elections Act of 2008, which allows federal employees to serve as non partisan poll workers and have the time off of work be categorized as administrative leave. Under current law, federal employees already receive administrative leave when they serve on jury duty. Under this bill, service as a poll worker would be documented in the same manner. In addition to creating incentives for federal employees to serve as poll workers, the bill also provides grants to states to recruit and train individuals to serve as poll workers. Current co-sponsor include Reps. Tom Davis(R-VA), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), James Moran (D-VA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). “Properly trained and engaged poll workers are crucial to the success of any election,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Since federal employees are among the most dedicated public servants our nation has, this bill gives them the opportunity to serve their communities is a new and fulfilling way. By including a grant process in this bill, we also give states the tools necessary to train these new poll workers. The health of our democracy is directly related to the quality of our voting systems, this legislation is a good step in strengthening those systems.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.23.2008	Judge Eugene Hyman and Santa Clara County Superior Court Honored for Public Service by the United NationsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today congratulated Judge Eugene Hyman and the Santa Clara County Superior Court for their selection as 2008 winners of the United Nations Public Service Award. Judge Hyman and the court received the Public Service award in the 'Improving transparency, accountability, and responsiveness in the Public Service' category for their efforts in support of the 'Juvenile Delinquency Domestic Violence and Family Violence Court.' The United Nations Public Service Award, established in 2003, is among the most prestigious awards for public service. It rewards the creative achievements and contributions of public service institutions from across the globe that lead to a more effective and responsive public administration. “I’d like to offer my deepest congratulations to Judge Hyman and the Santa Clara County Superior Court for winning such a global honor,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Gene has always been a powerful and effective advocate for improving our judicial process. His work to help end domestic violence and protect children has benefited thousands of local residents and this award is well deserved.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.21.2008	Bill Extends Tax Credits for Solar, Wind, and other Renewable EnergiesRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today voted to pass H.R. 6049, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act, which extends and expands tax incentives for renewable energy. This legislation includes a much-needed six year extension of the investment tax credit (ITC) for solar energy and a three year extension of the production tax credit (PTC) for energy derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas and solid waste. The bill also includes an extension of the R&D tax credit and provides up to 30 million homeowners with property tax relief. Additionally the bill includes: <!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->One-year extension of the PTC for energy derived from wind;<!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Incentives for carbon capture and sequestration demonstration projects;<!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Incentives for the production of homegrown renewable fuels, such as biodiesel and renewable diesel, and for the installation of E-85 pumps for consumers to fill up flex-fuel vehicles; <!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Tax credits of $3,000 or more toward the purchase of fuel-efficient, plug-in hybrid vehicles;<!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Incentives for energy conservation in commercial buildings, residential structures, and energy efficient appliances;<!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->$3 billion in tax credit bonds to State and local governments to make energy conservation investments in public infrastructure and invest in research;<!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Save 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses; and <!--[if !supportLists]-->ˆ <!--[endif]-->Provide 22,000 American troops in combat with tax relief under the Earned Income Tax Credit;“Silicon Valley’s economy is centered on the very technologies that will benefit most from this bill,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The bill also cuts taxes for millions of Americans, including teachers, college students and our fighting men and women. This legislation is a fiscally responsible way to help our economy transition to newer environmentally responsible technologies while at the same time generating thousands of jobs.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.20.2008	Bill Would Remove Immigration Related Obstacles for Military FamiliesRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R.6020, which allows active duty soldiers and veterans who serve honorably to become citizens expeditiously. The bill, which is co-sponsored by Reps. John Conyers (D-MI), Mike Pence (R-IN), Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Mac Thornberry (R-TX), and Michael Turner (R-OH), also includes provisions to:<!--[if !supportLineBreakNewLine]--><!--[endif]--><!--[if !supportLists]-->o <!--[endif]-->Ensure that active duty service members and veterans who served honorably are not relegated to “conditional” permanent residence. Where the spouse or child of an active duty service member is subject to conditional permanent residence, ensure that their obligation to appear at an in-person interview does not interfere with their military duties.<!--[if !supportLists]-->o <!--[endif]-->Ensure that lawful permanent resident active duty service members are not forced to wait for years to be reunited with their spouses or minor children.<!--[if !supportLists]-->o <!--[endif]-->Codify existing Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) guidelines for placing non-citizen active duty service members or veterans in removal proceedings.<!--[if !supportLists]-->o <!--[endif]-->Give undocumented family members of soldiers the opportunity to become lawful permanent residents if they are otherwise eligible. <!--[if !supportLists]-->o <!--[endif]-->Allow non-citizen active duty service members, veterans, and their close family members to apply for relief from immigration officials “The brave men and women serving in our armed forces have enough to think about without having to worry about the deportation of loved ones,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This legislation addresses many of the concerns that military families have about out current dysfunctional immigration system. The brave volunteers serving in our armed forces deserve the piece of mind this bill will bring.” According to the Congressional Research Service, over 45,000 non-citizens were serving in the U.S. military (Air Force, Army, Marines, Navy, National Guard, Reserves) as of March 2007. In addition, many U.S. citizens serving in the military have close immigrant family members. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.15.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today issued the following statement on the FY 2008 Emergency Supplemental bill vote.As I have said before, I will not vote to blindly continue this war. Our brave men and women in uniform deserve better. With that in mind, I voted for a responsible and efficient redeployment of our combat units out of Iraq and against a blank check for the Bush Administration. After more than five years, the price we have paid is far too high — with more than 4,000 U.S. troops killed and more than 30,000 U.S. troops wounded. The time has come to bring our soldiers home. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.14.2008	Bill Would Allow Best and Brightest in STEM Fields to Stay in the United States.Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R.6039, which would allow masters and Ph.D. level graduates from U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering, and math to obtain green cards without waiting in long lines, if they have job offers from U.S. employers. The measure enjoys strong bipartisan support, initial co-sponsors include: Reps. Chris Cannon (R-UT), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Chris Carter (R-TX), John Conyers (D-MI), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Tom Davis (R-VA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Wayne Gilchrist (R-MD), Mike Honda (D-CA), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Jim McDermott (D-WA), George Miller (D-CA), David Reichert (R-WA), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), John Shadegg (R-AZ), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Ellen Tauscher (D-CA). “More than 50% of the graduates from U.S. universities in masters and Ph.D. programs in science and engineering are foreign born,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “If we want our economy to continue competing in the global market, we have to retain these foreign students so they compete with us instead of against us in other countries. These men and women are the innovators of tomorrow, and we aren’t the only ones looking to retain their talents. Increasingly, employers from Europe, Australia, Canada, and even China and India, are beating U.S. employers for valuable talent. In 2000, for example, 75% of the world’s engineers were hired by U.S. employers‹just six years later in 2006, that percentage dropped to 63%. This legislation will give U.S. employers another tool to recruit the world’s best and brightest.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.06.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 5950, the Detainee Basic Medical Care Act of 2008, which would require the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish procedures for the timely and effective delivery of medical and mental health care to all immigration detainees. The procedures mandated by the bill must take into account all detainee health needs, including primary care, emergency care, chronic care, prenatal care, dental care, eye care, mental health care, medical dietary needs, and other medically-necessary specialized care. The bill would also require the Secretary to report all detainee deaths to the Inspector Generals of both the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) within 48 hours. Additionally, the Secretary would be required to submit a report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives containing detailed information regarding the death of all immigration detainees in the Secretary’s custody during the preceding fiscal year.“This legislation will help guarantee that minimal standards for care are put into place,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “We are not talking about Cadillac health care here, but the government is obligated to provide basic care. Many of those in immigration custody are there for minor violations, many for administrative and paperwork related mistakes. Their detention should not be a death sentence.”Click here for links to articles on immigration detention:http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_detention_us/incustody_deaths/index.htmlhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/nation/specials/immigration/index.htmlCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.05.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 5921, co-sponsored by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), which would eliminate the arbitrary per-country caps for employment-based immigrants. Current law caps at 7% the number of employment-based immigrants that can come from any one country during the year. Because of this cap, a Chinese or Indian post-graduate at the top of his/her class at MIT may have to wait half a decade or more for a green card, much longer than a student from a less-populated country. This limit thus creates arbitrary incentives, often forcing U.S. employers to consider country of birth over talent. In the future, the bill also allows the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State to use green cards that go unused by allowing them to “roll over” to the next fiscal year. This bill would not authorize any new green cards, but would ensure that green cards authorized by Congress are actually allocated.“By eliminating per-country caps on employment based visas, this bill gives U.S. employers the ability to hire foreign workers based on merit,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “U.S. employers are beginning to lose out in the global competition for talent, as more and more countries from around the world adapt their immigration laws to attract talent from overseas. This bill will help insure that the American economy can continue to seek out the best and brightest, regardless of their country origin. America needs a fair and simple immigration system that gives U.S. employers the ability to hire foreign workers on a first-in, first-out basis.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.01.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 5882, which would allow the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department (DOS) to use visas (“green cards”) that went unused in prior years due to bureaucratic processing delays. The bill would also allow DHS and DOS to use green cards that go unused in the future by allowing them to “roll over” to the next fiscal year until they are used. This bill would not authorize any new green cards, but would ensure that green cards authorized by Congress are actually allocated. “The Department of Homeland Security and the State Department have consistently failed to use the allotted number of immigrant visas (“green cards”) authorized by Congress,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill corrects that failure by recapturing unused visas from previous years and rolling unused future visas forward. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), has joined me in introducing this common sense measure and I thank him for his efforts on this issue and for joining me in sponsoring this bill.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.28.2008	House CAO Beard Joins Rep. Lofgren for Green Tech Discussion in CARep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) held a panel discussion program entitled “How Going Green saves Money, Jobs & Improves Lives,” at the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose today. The discussion program focused on the growing “green” technology market and on the integration of those technologies. Rep. Zoe Lofgren was joined by Rep. Mike Honda (D-Campbell), House of Representatives Chief Administrative Officer Dan Beard, San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed and Santa Clara County Supervisor Blanca Alvarado for the discussion with environmental leaders of Fortune 500 companies which have made significant efforts in “going green” themselves. Representatives from Adobe, Applied Materials, Echelon, Google, Intel, Sun Microsystems, Xilinx, joined the discussions to detail their companies’ green technology efforts. “Silicon Valley has always had a reputation for innovative leadership,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Business leaders in the valley realized early on that the coming green revolution would be good for both the planet and their balance sheets. Once again the valley is at the forefront of revolution, this time it’s a green one. I’d like to commend Speaker Pelosi, CAO Beard and the Silicon Valley technology companies, who saw green as an opportunity, for their efforts in bringing this revolution to the House of Representatives. I’m hoping that today’s discussions will help foster new connections in our efforts to spread the green movement throughout government and business.”“The House is changing the way it operates to reduce its impact on the environment,” stated House CAO Beard. “We hope it will serve as an international model of governmental responsibility on green issues. The companies here today have also demonstrated a commitment to the health of our environment and we're looking forward to learning from each other.”Click here to watch part 1 of the discussion program (outside link)Click here to watch part 2 of the discussion program (outside link)Click here for bios of discussion participantsClick here to download CAO Beard's conference presentationClick here to download Adobe's conference presentationClick here for environmental summaries of conference participantsCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.17.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) recently introduced H.R. 5638, a bill creating an exemption for repair parts in U.S. patent law. This bill applies only to repair and replacement parts that restore an article’s original appearance. This legislation was introduced partly in response to a recent International Trade Court (ITC) decision holding that automakers could assert patents on purely ornamental and cosmetic features of exterior vehicle parts to prevent the manufacture or importation of repair parts, such as bumpers. The United States Trade Representative has elected to let the ITC’s decision stand unchallenged. Even before this decision, original equipment manufacturer (OEM) parts were already 35-100% more expensive than non-OEM secondary repair parts. “The ITC’s decision isn’t just bad news for car owners seeking to purchase auto parts to repair their vehicles, it’s also bad news for auto insurance rates,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “These costs will put a severe dent in the pocket books of many working Americans, who depend on their vehicles to take their kids to school, drive to the doctor, and simply get to work. I believe that our patent system should provide an appropriate incentive for industrial designers to innovate. However, the system must be balanced and take into account the legitimate needs of consumers.” Groups supporting this bill include: Advocates for Auto and Highway Safety, American Insurance Association, Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association, Automotive Body Parts Association, Center for Auto Safety, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies, Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, Public Citizen, Quality Parts Coalition, and the Coalition for Auto Repair Equality. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.15.2008	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the bi-partisan, pro-consumer “Cell Tax Fairness Act,” which provides for a 5-year moratorium on any new discriminatory wireless tax or fee. A typical consumer already pays 15.19% in federal, state, and local taxes on their cell phone bill as compared to 7.07% for most other taxable goods and services. Between January 2003 and July 2007, the effective rate of taxation on wireless service increased four times faster than the rate for other taxable goods and services. The bill does not disturb current state and local taxes on wireless service. “The Cell Tax Fairness Act will help ensure that consumers make choices about communications technology based on the merits of that technology, rather than on the rate of taxation,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The Cell Tax Fairness Act does not take away any existing revenue for state or local governments, it simply calls for a period of tax stabilization that will help further innovation and access in the wireless world.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.10.2008	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the bipartisan Robocall Privacy Act with co-sponsors Melissa Bean (D-IL), John Campbell (R-CA), and Raul Grijalva (D-AZ). A companion measure, which was recently introduced by Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA), is currently moving forward in the United States Senate. The bill imposes significant sanctions on groups or individuals who: make political robocalls between the hours of 9 p.m. and 8 a.m.; make more than two political robocalls to the same number in the same day; fail to disclose the party responsible for the political robocall; or block caller identification information. “During the last few years, it has become clear that misuse of robocalls has continued to escalate,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “This bill, which addresses the most abusive practices, is a good first step in helping to curb that escalation. Importantly, this bill is not an absolute ban on the use of robocalls. I understand and respect the importance of the First Amendment’s protection of political speech and the benefits of robocall when used responsibly. This legislation ensures that political robocalls are used in a way that promotes, rather than discourages, meaningful participation by all Americans in the political process.” “Throughout this primary election season, we’ve heard a number of horror stories involving computer-automated telephone calls from political campaigns — voters receiving them at all hours of the day and night. We need a sensible solution to this problem — one that protects both the privacy rights of Americans as well as the free speech of those who wish to engage in the political process. I believe our bill does just that and I commend Representative Lofgren for introducing this important legislation in the House,” stated Senator Feinstein. “Pre-recorded phone messages, or ¥robocalls’ can be a useful method in communicating with constituents and voters, but they can also be used to deceive and confuse them, or worse, to deliberately suppress voter participation,” Rep. Bean said. “Informing voters about candidates’ positions can help our democratic process, but people shouldn’t be harassed by calls at obscene hours of the night. And voters should be told, up front, who is actually calling them.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. .
03.31.2008	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) inserted the following statement into the Congressional Record honoring Cesar Chavez on the 81st anniversary of his birth. Statement for the Congressional RecordCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-16)Remembering and Honoring Cesar ChavezOn this, the 81st anniversary of his birth, I would like to join my colleagues in honoring Cesar Chavez, an individual that the late Senator Robert Kennedy called, “one of the heroic figures of our time.” I also join the call to pass H. Res. 76, establishing a national holiday in his honor. San Jose, the city I represent in this great House, became the hometown to Cesar and his family beginning in 1939 and since then our community has always had a special place in its heart for Chavez. A man of extraordinary accomplishments, Chavez continually called attention to the plight of those who, like him, had to struggle to attain their piece of the American dream. In remembering him today, we keep in mind those Americans working every day on farms in California, and around the country, to secure a better future for their family.An American who heeded his nation’s call to service in World War II, Chavez remained committed making his country stronger by empowering the least powerful of its citizens. A tireless organizer, he inspired countless individuals to participate in the democratic processes that make this country great. As Americans, we do well to remember Cesar Chavez today. His calls for economic justice resonate in 2008 just as they did 50 years ago and his early leadership on environmental issues serves as a reminder that we are all stewards of this land.Cesar Chavez was, without a doubt, a true American hero. As we honor his life and remember his many achievements, we in this great body must not forget the hard-working Americans he fought for. Though no longer with us, Cesar Chavez’s work continues. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.14.2008	Today, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) cosigned a letter with Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA) to Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff questioning the adequacy of the security and anti-counterfeiting features on the new U.S. Passport Card. The letter also questions the posting of the Passport Card’s specifications and artwork on the internet. Full text of the letter below:March 14, 2008 Secretary Michael ChertoffUnited States Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, DC 20229 Dear Secretary Chertoff: The U.S. Department of State has posted the new U.S. Passport Card specifications and artwork in detail on its website. This decision has a direct impact on the security of our nation and we are deeply concerned about the possible use of this information to create fake identification cards. Further, the inadequate security features on the passport card are not sufficiently resistant to counterfeit and fraud and we are concerned that the Department of State has recommended similar cards to other agencies. In addition to the U.S. Department of State posting the specifications and artwork of the U.S. Passport Card, including information on its security features, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) has also posted specifications of machine readable travel documents on their website.<!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[1]<!--[endif]--> We find this troubling in an era when counterfeiters are constantly searching the internet for information on such valuable cards that will be used to gain entry into the U.S. The passport card will facilitate entry and expedite document processing at U.S. land and sea ports-of-entry when arriving from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Despite the fact that the U.S. Department of State’s website states that “[w]e are taking every care to ensure that this passport card is as secure as current technology permits,”<!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[2]<!--[endif]--> it is our understanding that the State Department has decided not to use the most advanced form of laser technology. We recognize that while laser technology will be used on the U.S. Passport Card, it is the type that does not allow for changes, but it apparently may be duplicated. Furthermore, despite the fact that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has already proposed a new design for the Permanent Resident Card that includes the most up-to-date laser technology, we find it troubling that, in a recent letter (attached), the Deputy Commissioner at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection has recently suggested to USCIS that reconsider this decision. We would greatly appreciate an explanation for why an agency would want to lower security standards, especially after state-of-the-art security features on the Permanent Resident Card have already been proposed. This is not the first time the contract with the U.S. Passport Card has been called into question. The contract was originally awarded to General Dynamics, but after that contract fell through, it was awarded to L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. Although the Department of State feels that L-1 has demonstrated that it can meet all of the specifications for the card and its production, by releasing that information to the public, the program has been compromised. Finally, effective January 31, 2008, Canadian citizens will be able to present Trusted Traveler Cards to gain entry into the U.S. Unfortunately, we understand that SENTRI and NEXUS cards are made in China and may be simply erased with nail polish remover. Manufacturing cards these cards outside of the United States that contain minimal physical security is counterintuitive to creating open channels and securing the boarder for low risk travelers. The U.S. Department of State has created a significant security risk by awarding a contract for a Passport Card that possesses inadequate protections and then compounded that risk by posting the specifications and artwork on its website. We request that the Passport Card webpage be immediately taken down, the contract for the Passport Card cancelled, and a new RFP issued for a Passport Card which includes the security features necessary to prevent counterfeit and fraud. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Jane HarmanMember of Congress Member of Congress Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. <!--[if !supportFootnotes]--><!--[endif]--> <!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[1]<!--[endif]--> http://mrtd.icao.int/content/view/33/202/ (last accessed on March 14, 2008).<!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[2]<!--[endif]--> http://travel.state.gov/passport/ppt_card/ppt_card_3921.html (last accessed on March 14, 2008).
03.14.2008	Zoe speaks out on telecom immunity during floor debate on the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (click for video clip).
03.13.2008	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to a recent ruling by the United States District for the Central District of California in Castaneda v. U.S., et al. The U.S. District Courts ruling in Castaneda v. U.S. demonstrates that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) failed to provide even the most basic care to Mr. Castaneda. The court described the government's actions in this case as “misleading,”“callous,” and “cruel" and suggested that this lack of treatment directly resulted in Mr. Castaneda’s death. Our government has a constitutional and moral responsibility to provide a minimum standard of care to all those that are in its custody. Thousands of people end up in ICE custody every year, many for administrative and paperwork related mistakes. Their detention should not be a death sentence. In a country that prides itself as a beacon of freedom and democracy, the fact that ICE officials refused to provide basic medical care to those in its custody should be seen as nothing less than shameful. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.13.2008	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced a resolution, co-sponsored by Reps. Dan Lungren (R-CA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fl), calling for the release of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan and other political prisoners being held by the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan, a U.S. citizen, is being held by the Vietnamese government for speaking out against human rights violations committed by the communist government. The resolution also calls on the State Department to redesignate Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern” and for the removal of permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status with Vietnam unless all political and religious prisoners are released and significant and immediate human rights reforms are made by the Government of Vietnam.“The thugs in Hanoi continue to imprison and torture at will,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “As long as the Vietnamese government continues violating basic human and religious rights, I will continue advocating for the removal of PNTR. The regime in Hanoi must be held accountable for it actions.” RESOLUTIONCondemning the detention of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan, a citizen of the United States, by the Government of Vietnam, and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States should remove permanent normal trade relations status with Vietnam unless Dr. Nguyen is released.Whereas Vietnam has a long history of human rights and freedom of speech violations; Whereas, despite ongoing human rights violations, on November 13, 2006, Vietnam was removed as a Country of Particular Concern (CPC), as a precondition to the extension of permanent normal trade relations to Vietnam, but against the recommendation of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom; Whereas the extension of permanent normal trade relations to Vietnam was also a precondition for its accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO); Whereas human rights conditions have deteriorated in Vietnam since its accession to the WTO; Whereas, on November 17, 2007, pro-democracy advocate Nguyen Quoc Quan was arrested by the Government of Vietnam for exercising his free speech rights, as guaranteed by Article 69 of the Constitution of Vietnam;Whereas, during 2007, Father Nguyen Van Ly, Nguyen Dao, Nguyen Bac Truyen, Le Nguyen Sang, Nguyen Van Dai, Le Thi Cong Nhan, and Tran Quoc Hien were each sentenced to several years in prison for exercising their free speech rights, as guaranteed by Article 69 of the Constitution of Vietnam; Whereas, Nguyen Quoc Quan, continues to be detained by the Government of Vietnam;Whereas Nobel Peace Prize nominee Thich Quang Do is in his twenty-sixth year of detention; Whereas neither Nguyen Quoc Quan, nor any of the aforementioned individuals, advocated or engaged in violence in their opposition to the Vietnamese Government or its policies; Whereas these convictions are in contravention of Article 69 of the Vietnamese Constitution, which states that `The citizen shall enjoy freedom of opinion and speech, freedom of the press, the right to be informed and the right to assemble, form associations and hold demonstrations in accordance with the provisions of the law'; Whereas these convictions are in contravention of the rights contained in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) to which Vietnam is a State Party, specifically Article 19 (freedom of expression) and Article 22 (freedom of association); Whereas the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom's 2007 Annual Report states, `[S]ince [Vietnam] joined the World Trade Organization (WTO), the government of Vietnam has initiated a crackdown on human rights defenders and advocates for the freedoms of speech, association, and assembly, including many religious leaders who previously were the leading advocates for religious freedom in Vietnam'; and Whereas, in May 2007, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom recommended Vietnam be re-designated as a Country of Particular Concern: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That--(1) the House of Representatives--(A) calls for the release of Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan and other political detainees; and(B) strongly condemns the ongoing human rights abuses in Vietnam; and(2) it is the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States should--(A) re-designate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern, pursuant to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, and the 2007 recommendation of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom;(B) demand that the Government of Vietnam comply with internationally recognized standards for basic freedoms and human rights; and(C) remove permanent normal trade relations status with Vietnam unless all political and religious prisoners are released and significant and immediate human rights reforms are made by the Government of Vietnam. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.13.2008	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced H. Res. 1044, co-sponsored by Rep. William Delahunt (D-MA), calling on the government of Pakistan to restore its “ supreme court and high court justices and other members of the legal profession in Pakistan who were removed from office since the imposition of emergency rule€” Full text of the resolution is below. RESOLUTIONCondemning the dismissal of the Supreme Court in Pakistan and calling for their reinstatement by the Government of Pakistan.Whereas on March 9, 2007, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan suspended the Chief Justice of Pakistan, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry;Whereas this removal triggered months of protests by hundreds of Pakistani lawyers;Whereas On July 20, 2007, the Supreme Court of Pakistan found Chaudhry’s removal unconstitutional and reinstated him as Chief Justice;Whereas following his November 3, 2007 imposition of emergency rule, President Musharraf required Supreme Court justices to take a new oath of office under the Provisional Constitution Order and dismissed seven judges, including the Chief Justice, who refused to take this new oath;Whereas the principles of constitutional order and the rule of law are prerequisites to any functioning democracy; and Whereas an independent judiciary and free elections are equally vital as fundamental foundations of democracy; and Whereas, section 699F(b)(3)(D) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public law 110-161), withholds $50,000,000 of Foreign Military Financing for Pakistan pending the restoration of an independent judiciary; and Whereas these actions by President Musharraf undermine democratic governance and rule of law in Pakistan and thus reduce the ability of the Government of Pakistan and the Government of the United States to effectively fight against al Qaeda and Taliban terrorists and threaten United States interests in South Asia: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) commends members of the legal profession in Pakistan as well as opposition politicians, human rights activists, and independent journalists for their courageous opposition to the removal of Chief Justice Chaudhry and their principled leadership in defending the Constitution of Pakistan and promoting the rule of law;(2) welcomes public statements from Pakistan’s new civilian leaders that they intend to restore to office all judges dismissed after November 3, 2007; and(3) calls on the Government of Pakistan, consistent with section 699F(b)(3)(D) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, to restore to their positions Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry and all Supreme Court and high court justices and other members of the legal profession in Pakistan who were removed from office since the imposition of emergency rule, and to respect the independence of the Pakistani judiciary. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.12.2008	Last week, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) joined with several of her colleagues in signing letters to President Bush and Secretary of State Rice, urging them to do everything possible to ensure that the Vietnamese government desists from all violent repression of the protestors and supports a negotiated settlement regarding the confiscation of religious property. Full text of both letters below:The Honorable George W. BushThe President of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear President Bush,We write to express concern about the recent dispute between the Archbishop of Hanoi and the Government of Vietnam over the former site of the Vatican Embassy in Hanoi. We are disturbed by recent allegations of religious and human rights violations against the Archdiocese as well as Catholic faithful who have peacefully assembled for prayer vigils at the site in question. We respectfully request that you do everything possible to ensure that the Vietnamese government desists from all violent repression of the protestors. Furthermore, we request that you support a negotiated settlement regarding the confiscated Church property that is at the root of this dispute. On January 25, 2008, there were reports of a female protester at the former site of the Vatican Embassy being kicked and beaten by police. Another man was beaten while attempting to come to the woman’s aid. Authorities claimed that the demonstrations were illegal, and the United States Embassy has asked for clarification of this claim.The regime in Hanoi must take firm and concrete action to prevent further religious and human rights violations against the Archdiocese of Hanoi and the Catholic faithful in Vietnam. The time has come for the government of Vietnam to recognize the right of religious groups to practice their faiths free of harassment and oppression. For far too long, people of faith have suffered under Hanoi’s repressive and brutal rule.The United States of America has long been a model to the rest of the world as a protector of religious and human rights throughout the world. We hope that you will take the opportunity to ensure that this disagreement does not escalate into additional instances of religious and human rights violations.Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Ileana Ros-LehtinenMichael R. McNulty Dan BurtonMadeleine Bordallo Secretary Condoleezza RiceDepartment of State2201 C Street NWWashington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Rice,We write to express concern about the recent dispute between the Archbishop of Hanoi and the Government of Vietnam over the former site of the Vatican Embassy in Hanoi. We are disturbed by recent allegations of religious and human rights violations against the Archdiocese as well as Catholic faithful who have peacefully assembled for prayer vigils at the site in question. We respectfully request that you do everything possible to ensure that the Vietnamese government desists from all violent repression of the protestors. Furthermore, we request that you support a negotiated settlement regarding the confiscated Church property that is at the root of this dispute. On January 25, 2008, there were reports of a female protester at the former site of the Vatican Embassy being kicked and beaten by police. Another man was beaten while attempting to come to the woman’s aid. Authorities claimed that the demonstrations were illegal, and the United States Embassy has asked for clarification of this claim.The regime in Hanoi must take firm and concrete action to prevent further religious and human rights violations against the Archdiocese of Hanoi and the Catholic faithful in Vietnam. The time has come for the government of Vietnam to recognize the right of religious groups to practice their faiths free of harassment and oppression. For far too long, people of faith have suffered under Hanoi’s repressive and brutal rule.The United States of America has long been a model to the rest of the world as a protector of religious and human rights throughout the world. We hope that you will take the opportunity to ensure that this disagreement does not escalate into additional instances of religious and human rights violations.Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Ileana Ros-LehtinenMichael R. McNulty Dan BurtonMadeleine Bordallo Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.11.2008	Bill Creates Independent Office of Congressional EthicsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor H.Res. 895, which would establish the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE), an independent office within the House tasked with reviewing members and their offices. The OCE will be composed of 6 Board members, jointly appointed by the Speaker and Minority Leader. Current Members of the House, federal employees, and lobbyists are not eligible. The panel will review ethics complaints under a two step process, and refer those it believes have merit to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct (Ethics Committee) for further action. “This bill sets a new standard for ethics in the House,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “What we have here is one of the most sweeping pieces of ethics reform that Congress has ever voted on. The creation of the OCE will substantially increase transparency and accountability in the people’s House.”The bill establishing the COE is supported by several noted groups and individuals, including: Common Cause; U.S. PIRG; Norm Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute; and, Tom Mann of the Brookings Institution.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.08.2008	Bill Would Help End Discrimination Against Patients with Mental IllnessesRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today joined with her House colleagues in passing H.R. 1424, The Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Parity Act, which will help end discrimination against patients seeking treatment for mental illnesses. The legislation, named after the late Senator Paul Wellstone, ensures that group health plans do not charge higher co-payments, coinsurance, deductibles, or impose maximum out-of-pocket, and lower day and visit limits on mental health and addiction care than for medical and surgical benefits.The bill does not mandate that group health plans add mental health coverage, it only applies to health plans that choose to offer mental health coverage. The mental health parity requirements apply to group health plans with 51 or more employees. Also, the bill would not supersede any state law that provides consumer protections, benefits, rights, or remedies stronger than those in this bill. “The time has come for Americans to receive the same mental health coverage that their representatives in Congress and federal employees receive,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill is a common sense measure that will help expand access to much needed mental health treatment.” The bill is supported by a long list of groups, including the American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Nurses Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, National Association of Social Workers, American Psychiatric Association, and the American Psychological Association. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.27.2008	Bill Provides Tax Credit for Investments in Clean and Renewable EnergyRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor H.R. 5351, The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008, which encourages investments in clean energy and ends unnecessary subsidies to oil companies. This legislation expands and extends tax credits for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. Additionally, the bill includes solar energy tax credits that could reduce carbon dioxide pollution by 240 million tons over the next eight years. The bill balances these new tax credits by eliminating unnecessary tax subsidies for large oil and gas companies. The big five oil companies recently reported record profits for 2007, with ExxonMobil earning $40.6 billion - the largest corporate profit in American history. In California alone, gas prices have risen 132 percent since 2001, going from an average $1.44 per gallon to $3.34 per gallon. Oil is now selling for more than $100 a barrel, an all time high. “These new tax credits will help ensure that Silicon Valley, and the United States, remain at the forefront of clean energy development,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill will create new “green collar” jobs and help propel our economy forward. For far too long our national energy policy has subsidized large oil and gas companies at the expense of innovative and clean technologies. This Congress is reversing that policy, and this bill is a step in that direction. Congress needs to take a page from Silicon Valley’s playbook and embrace new and innovated technologies to reduce our dependence on dirty foreign oil.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
02.12.2008	Yesterday, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) met with a group parishioners from the Diocese of San Jos_, California and agreed to make efforts on behalf of Catholics in Vietnam. She released the following statement in response to recent accounts that Vietnamese Catholics have held numerous demonstrations for religious liberty in Hanoi. The regime in Hanoi must take firm and concrete action to prevent further religious and human rights violations against the Archdiocese of Hanoi and the Catholic faithful in Vietnam. The time has come for the government of Vietnam to recognize the right of religious groups to practice their faiths free of harassment and oppression. For far too long, people of faith have suffered under Hanoi’s repressive and brutal rule. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.30.2008	Letter Calls Attention to Flawed Board of Immigration Appeals RulingRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) joined with Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) in co-signing a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey, expressing their concern over a recent decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) that appears to reverse U.S. policy regarding the protection of women subjected to severe human rights abuses such as female genital mutilation (“FGM”) and forced marriage. The BIA denied the asylum claim of a woman who had suffered FGM as a child and who feared that she would be subjected to a forced marriage if returned to her native Mali. "This recent action taken by the Board of Immigration Appeals is a step backward for the rights of women worldwide," said Conyers. "America's standing as a global leader for human rights and democratic principles is undermined by this decision. Attorney General Mukasey should review this case and give thoughtful consideration to why asylum is properly granted to victims of this horrible abuse.”“I’m deeply distressed that the Board of Immigration Appeals would deny this woman’s claim for asylum,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Female Genital Mutilation is a gross violation of a woman’s human rights and has traditionally been grounds for the granting of an asylum claim. I hope that Attorney General Mukasey will see the troubling implications of this terrible ruling and certify the case for further review.”Full text of the letter below: January 28, 2008The Honorable Michael MukaseyAttorney GeneralU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Mukasey: We are extremely concerned over a recent decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) that appears to reverse U.S. policy regarding the protection of women subjected to severe human rights abuses such as female genital mutilation (“FGM”) and forced marriage. In a recent decision, Matter of A-T-, 24 I. & N. Dec. 296 (BIA 2007), the BIA denied asylum and withholding of removal to a woman who had experienced FGM as a child in Mali and feared the further abuse of forced marriage. We strongly question the Board’s reasoning in that decision, and we urge you to certify the case for further review.As a preliminary matter, it should be noted that FGM is a reprehensible act and a gross violation of a woman’s fundamental human rights. The procedure is intended to oppress and subjugate women through mutilation and sexual repression. See Matter of Kasinga, 21 I. & N. Dec. 357 (BIA 1996) (citing evidence that FGM is “a form of sexual oppression that is based on the manipulation of women’s sexuality in order to assure male dominance and exploitation”). Moreover, the procedure often results in severe physical and psychological damage, including hemorrhage, shock, chronic urinary or pelvic infection, sterility, painful scars and obstructed labor, sexual dysfunction, depression, and various other gynecological and obstetric problems. Congress has criminalized the practice of FGM in this country, and the House of Representatives recently denounced FGM as a “barbaric practice” in H. Res. 32, which passed the House unanimously.Due to the heinousness of FGM and the “risk of serious, potentially life-threatening complications” to women and girls, the BIA has previously held that FGM can support a grant of asylum. Kasinga, 21 I. & N. Dec. at 361. The Kasinga Board recognized FGM as a form of persecution and determined that women who fear being subjected to FGM may be members of a “particular social group” under our refugee laws. Id. at 365-66. The Board thus approved the grant of asylum to the applicant in the case, a woman who feared she would be subjected to FGM if returned to Togo.In Matter of A-T-, the BIA was presented with a woman from Mali who had already been subject to female genital mutilation. The Board recognized that once an applicant has shown past persecution, she is presumed to have a well-founded fear of future persecution. A-T-, 24 I. & N. Dec. at 297. But it determined in this case that the FGM procedure itself constituted a changed circumstance that rebutted the presumption. The Board concluded that the procedure represented a “fundamental change” in the applicant’s situation such that she no longer had a well-founded fear of persecution. Id. at 299-301.This conclusion appears to conflict with the reasoning in Matter of Y-T-L-, 23 I. & N. Dec. 601 (BIA 2003), a BIA decision concerning forced sterilization in the People’s Republic of China. In that case, the Board held that the act of forced sterilization did not constitute a “fundamental change in circumstances” that would preclude the granting of asylum to a sterilized woman, even if such persecution could not be repeated. Y-T-L-, 23 I. & N. Dec. at 606. The Board noted that it would be “anomalous” for the act of persecution itself to “constitute the change in circumstances that would result in the denial of asylum.” Id. at 605.In the A-T- decision, the BIA appears to have backed away from its reasoning in Y-T-L- by distinguishing forced FGM from forced sterilization. The Board referred to the “refugee” definition in section 101(a)(42) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), noting that Congress had specifically referred to forced sterilization and abortion in the definition. A-T-, 24 I. & N. Dec. at 300. The Board then concluded that “persons who suffered such harm [were] singled out by Congress as having a basis for asylum in the ¥refugee’ definition . . . on the strength of the past harm alone.” Id. Because Congress had not referred to FGM, the Board reasoned, Congress had not intended for FGM to serve as a basis for asylum on past harm alone. Id. at 300-01.The Board’s reasoning in this regard is highly questionable, as Congress never intended to create a distinction between FGM and forced sterilization or abortion through the “refugee” definition. To the contrary, in referring to forced sterilization and abortion in the definition, Congress actually meant to equate such forms of persecution with FGM. The references to forced sterilization and abortion were meant to ensure that such acts were understood as persecution, a determination that the BIA had already made with respect to FGM in Kasinga and which obviated the need for further clarification by Congress. See INA _ 101(a)(42); Kasinga, 21 I. & N. Dec. at 365-66. The A-T- Board appears to err when it concludes that Congress had meant to create an exception to general refugee law with respect to forced sterilization and abortion. Nowhere does the refugee definition state that victims of these procedures are automatically eligible for asylum. The definition is simply meant to ensure that those procedures are understood as persecution, which, as noted above, had already been determined by the BIA with respect to FGM. The BIA’s attempt to differentiate FGM from forced sterilization appears unsupported by the INA. We believe that the reasoning in Y-T-L- with respect to forced sterilization should be applied in A-T- with respect to forced FGM. In Y-T-L-, the Board reasoned that:forced sterilization should not be viewed as a discrete, onetime act, comparable to a term in prison, or an incident of severe beating or even torture. Coerced sterilization is better viewed as a permanent and continuing act of persecution that has deprived a couple of the natural fruits of conjugal life, and the society and comfort of the child or children that might eventually have been born to them.Y-T-L-, 23 I. & N. Dec. at 607. Such reasoning appears to be applicable in the A-T- case, as the continuing effects of FGM appear to be similar to those of forced sterilization:FGM is extremely painful and at least temporarily incapacitating. It permanently disfigures the female genitalia. FGM exposes the girl or woman to the risk of serious, potentially life-threatening complications. These include, among others, bleeding, infection, urine retention, stress, shock, psychological trauma, and damage to the urethra and anus. It can result in permanent loss of genital sensation and can adversely affect sexual and erotic functions.Kasinga, 21 I. & N. Dec. at 361.We are also concerned that the BIA’s treatment of forced marriage in A-T- further undermines human rights protections for women in the United States. The Board failed to see the threat of forced marriage in Mali as a form of persecution, particularly in light of her experience with FGM in Mali. It is our understanding that women subjected to forced marriage in Mali are vulnerable to severe abuse and deprivation of freedom. As such, forced marriage may be related to FGM in that it subjugates and oppresses women by controlling sexuality. It appears the Board failed to consider cumulatively all of the circumstances in the applicant’s case. We believe that the BIA’s decision in A-T- is deeply flawed and serves as an inadequate vehicle for such a significant reversal in U.S. policy with regard to the fundamental human rights of women. The Board has failed to recognize that harms unique to women‹such as FGM and forced marriage‹may constitute persecution entitling a woman to protection. We urge you to address this decision and its devastating consequences for the protection of women fleeing severe human rights abuses. Sincerely,John Conyers Zoe Lofgren Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.29.2008	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced a resolution honoring Border Patrol Agent Luis A. Aguilar, who was killed in the line of duty last week near Yuma, Arizona. Agent Aguilar was killed while attempting to stop smugglers fleeing into Mexico. Agent Aguilar is survived by his mother and father, his wife, Erica Aguilar, his two children, Luis and Ariana, his brother, senior Border Patrol agent Marco Antonio Aguilar, and his sister, Angie Aguilar. “Neither Agent Aguilar’s murder, nor his dedicated service to his country, should be forgotten,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Everyday the brave men and women of our border patrol stand as guardians at our nation’s borders. Agent Aguilar selflessly gave his life to keep his fellow American’s safe. Today, I join with my colleagues to honor his service by introducing this resolution.” Full text of the resolution below:RESOLUTIONHonoring the life of senior Border Patrol agent Luis A. Aguilar, who lost his life in the line of duty near Yuma,Arizona, on January 19, 2008.Whereas Luis Aguilar was born in El Paso, Texas, on November 26, 1976, to Luis Aguilar and Cecilia G. Silva; Whereas Luis Aguilar resided in Somerton, Arizona, and is survived by his mother and father, his wife, Erica Aguilar, his two children, Luis and Ariana, his brother, senior Border Patrol agent Marco Antonio Aguilar, and his sister, Angie Aguilar;Whereas Luis Aguilar joined the United States Border Patrol on July 21, 2002;Whereas on January 19, 2008, after over 5 years of dedicated service in the United States Border Patrol, Luis Aguilar selflessly paid the ultimate sacrifice in service to the United States;Whereas Border Patrol agents carry out the vital role of protecting our Nation’s borders and ensuring the safety of the United States;Whereas Border Patrol agents work devotedly and selflessly on behalf of the people of the United States, without regard for the peril or danger to themselves; and Whereas the United States will forever be grateful for the service of Luis Aguilar and mourn his loss: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives‹ recognizes the dedication and sacrifice made by the men and women who have lost their lives while serving as United States Border Patrol agents; honors Luis Aguilar for his service as a Border Patrol agent and for his sacrifice to the United States; and extends its deepest condolences to the family of Luis Aguilar. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.29.2008	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to recent questions about impeachment of the President and Vice-President. Also included below are several links to valuable resources on impeachment that you may find useful.1974 Judiciary Committee Report on the Constitutional Grounds for Impeachment (pdf)Letter from Rep. Lofgren to Judiciary Chairman Conyers on Impeachment -- January 2008 (pdf)I share the view that the President’s polices are making our country less safe, less prosperous, less free and less fair. However, pursuing the impeachment of a federal official demands meeting the requirements of the Constitution. While politically I think that President Bush and Vice-President Cheney may be the worst in our nation’s history, it is not yet clear that the President’s or Vice-President’s behavior meets the Constitutional standard for removal from office. I have been involved in two impeachments while working in Washington D.C. The first was as a staff member to my predecessor Don Edwards during the Nixon impeachment and the second was as a member on the House Judiciary Committee during the Clinton impeachment. An impeachment inquiry must be firmly rooted in the Constitution, which requires removal from office for “treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.” I am not hesitant to pursue the remedy of impeachment if a President’s or Vice-President’s conduct reaches this high standard, but I am not willing to proceed without clear and convincing evidence that the standard has been met.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.28.2008	Click here to listen to Rep. Zoe Lofgren’s State of the Union Response Podcast (mp3) Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
01.23.2008	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) recently authored a letter, cosigned by Representatives Dennis A. Cardoza (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Al Green (D-TX), Mike Honda (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Loretta L. Sanchez (D-CA), strongly questioning the Bush administration’s decision to sign a repatriation agreement with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The complete text of the letter is below: January 23, 2008 The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, D.C. 20528Dear Secretary Chertoff:We are extremely concerned that thousands of Vietnamese nationals currently living in the United States may be forcibly returned to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a country with an extensive and continuing record of human rights violations. It is appalling and unbelievable that this Administration would even consider returning those who escaped Communism back to the clutches of the very Communists that they escaped.According to an ICE press release, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the government of Vietnam today. This MOU will apparently permit the deportation of Vietnamese nationals who entered the United States on or after July 12, 1995.In the 2006 Country Report on Human Rights Practices, the U.S. State Department described the human rights situation in Vietnam as “unsatisfactory”. The March 6, 2007 report documented a litany of human rights violations, including:Ç Abuses by government officials for exercise of religious freedom;Ç Prohibition of political opposition movements;Ç Arbitrary arrest and detention for political activities; Ç Governmental control over the press and the internet;Ç Abuse of suspects during arrest, detention, and interrogation;Ç Denial of fair and expeditious trials;Ç Limitation of citizens' privacy rights and freedom of speech, press, assembly, movement, and association;Ç Prohibition of independent human rights organizations;Ç Violence and discrimination against women, including limited child prostitution and trafficking in women and children;Ç Societal discrimination of some ethnic minority groups; and Ç Limitation of workers’ rights, especially to organize independently.Likewise, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) reported that “Vietnam has initiated a severe crackdown on human rights defenders and advocates for the freedoms of speech, association, and assembly, including many religious leaders.” In particular, USCIRF found that “[t]he Vietnamese government continues to remain suspicious of ethnic minority religious groups, such as Montagnard and Hmong Protestants and Khmer Buddhists; those who seek to establish independent religious organizations, such as the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, Hao Hoa, and Cao Dai; and those it considers to pose a threat to national solidarity or security, such as ¥Dega’ Protestants and individual Mennonite, Catholic, Buddhist, and house church Protestant leaders.” In addition, respected non-governmental entities such as Amnesty International also documented wide-spread human rights violations in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam:<!--[if !supportLineBreakNewLine]--><!--[endif]-->Restrictions on freedom of expression and association continued. Members of unauthorized churches seen as opposing state policies faced harassment. Dissidents using the Internet were harassed, threatened and imprisoned. Small groups of ethnic minority Montagnards continued to flee human rights violations in the Central Highlands and seek asylum in neighbouring Cambodia; at least 250 remained imprisoned after unfair trials in Viet Nam.Given the rampant violations of human rights committed by the Socialist Republic of Vietnam as documented by our own State Department and other governmental and non-governmental experts, we are very troubled that ICE has entered into an agreement to deport Vietnamese nationals living in the United States into such conditions. We ask that you brief us personally on the MOU. In particular, we would like to know the process by which the agreement was reached, including whether ICE was aware of and considered the Socialist Republic of Vietnam’s human rights record in reaching the agreement. Furthermore, we insist that no implementation of this agreement take place until agreed to by Congress. We would appreciate your response no later than close of business on Friday, January 25, 2008. Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren Ileana Ros-LehtinenMichael Honda Lincoln Diaz-BalartLoretta Sanchez Mario Diaz-BalartLinda Sanchez Keith EllisonJim Costa Dennis CardozaEd Perlmutter Al GreenBarbara Lee Jim Costa cc: Secretary Condolezza Rice, U.S. Department of State Assistant Secretary Julie Myers, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.20.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to her vote against continued funding for the war in Iraq. I cannot in good conscience vote to give the President another blank check for the war in Iraq. The Congressional Joint Economic Committee has estimated that if the President's request is approved, the full economic cost of the war will total nearly $1.3 trillion by the end of 2008. I cannot, and will not, support such reckless spending without even a plan or goal for a conclusion. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.20.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s decision to adopt a Pacheco Pass route.I'm delighted by the High-Speed Rail Authority's adoption of the Pacheco Pass route. The Authority's decision will ensure that Californians will have the fastest, most direct and environmentally friendly route. As a long time supporter of high-speed rail, and the Pacheco Pass route, I'm pleased that we can now move forward to getting the system funded, built, and running. Building this high speed rail project will once again put California in the forefront of environmental protection. In particular, air quality will improve in both Northern and Southern California, but most especially in California's central Valley. This is a day for California to celebrate. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.19.2007	U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) today announced that she has secured over $1.4 million for local childhood development, gang prevention, and at-risk youth programs. Funds for these projects are included in the omnibus spending package that Congress passed this evening and now goes to the President for his signature.“Providing for the youth of San Jose has always been one of my top priorities,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “All of these programs offer local youth a chance to improve their lives and build a foundation for success. These funds are essential, and I will continue working to bring federal dollars home to San Jose.” The projects receiving funding are:Santa Clara County Juvenile Detention Reform: Evening Reporting Center: $364,720. This funding will be used to provide at-risk youth with programs where they receive meals, counseling and substance abuse services, recreation opportunities, and other skill development training. San Jose BEST Gang Intervention Program: $493,500. These funds will provide for the improvement and expansion of a proven at-risk youth and anti-gang program, focused on areas in San Jose that experience crime related gang activity. Building Trade Jobs for At-Risk Out-of-School Youth: $341,000. These funds will be used to provide comprehensive occupational skills training and employment services to at-risk youth and help place them in the building trades. Early Childhood Development Initiative — NHU: 282,000. This funding will be used by the National Hispanic University to create a dual purpose childcare facility and early childhood teacher training center, which will service low-income areas of East San Jose. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.19.2007	U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) today announced that she has secured over $750,000 for local transportation projects in this years omnibus spending package. “I’m delighted to announce these local projects will be receiving federal support,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Both of these projects are vital to our local communities and I’m proud to have requested funds for them. San Jose’s commuters, whether they walk, drive, or bike deserve to have safe roads and access to mass transit. These funds will help local authorities meet that goal.” The projects receiving funding are:Blossom Hill/Monterey Grade Crossing: $500,000. This funding will support the creation of a safe pedestrian cross over railroad tracks and Monterey Highway. Several local residents have been injured or killed trying to cross in this area. Bus Rapid Transit Alternatives Analysis: $250,000. This funding will be used to develop an integrated Bus Rapid Transit network that will offer high-quality public transit to areas not served by the VTA’s light rail system. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.19.2007	U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) today announced that she has secured over $45 million for local water and infrastructure projects in the omnibus spending package that Congress passed this evening. “I’m proud to have played a part in securing these funds for vital local projects,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “These projects will safeguard the lives and properties of thousands of Santa Clara County residents. I will continue working to ensure that our local water infrastructure projects receive the attention and funding they need.” The projects receiving funding are: Coyote and Berryessa Creeks Protection $1,165,000Santa Clara Valley WaterUpper Guadalupe River Flood Control Project $446,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSan Jose Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project $1,000,000Santa Clara Valley WaterUpper Penitencia Creek Project $233,000Santa Clara Valley WaterGuadalupe River Flood Control Project $1,812,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSouth San Francisco Bay Shoreline Study $798,000Santa Clara Valley WaterCalifornia Bay-Delta Restoration Program $40,098,000Santa Clara Valley Water Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.17.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to the introduction on H.R. 4279, Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2007. I am pleased to see the subcommittee addressing international piracy and the protection of intellectual property. It is an issue where all sides agree that there is a problem and that we need to take action. I am encouraged by the parts of this bill that would attack that problem. It is beyond galling to see intellectual property rights of American businesses blatantly disregarded, particularly in China and Russia. This is not just a matter of trade and economics. As recent examples have shown, counterfeit goods imported into the United States can be immensely unsafe and, indeed, fatal. However, I am puzzled and deeply troubled by the parts of HR 4279 that seem to have nothing to do with this problem, and will have serious negative consequences for innovation and economic growth in this country. I am particularly concerned about Section 104 of this bill, which would exorbitantly increase statutory damages for infringement of compilations. This Section was not part of the Administration’s proposal. Nor was it endorsed by the Coalition Against Counterfeiting and Piracy. Section 104 would do next to nothing to deter commercial infringement or infringement by individuals. On the other hand, it will deter legitimate innovation and place American innovators at a significant disadvantage with respect to their competitors abroad. As a life long resident of Silicon Valley, I have always been a strong supporter of the rights of intellectual property holders. This legislation, however, fails to balance the needs of intellectual property holders with those of innovators. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee to find that necessary balance. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.12.2007	Bill Protects Middle-Class Families from AMTRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement on her vote for H.R. 4351, the AMT Relief Act of 2007. Today, I joined with a majority of my colleagues in the House in passing H.R. 4351, the AMT Relief Act of 2007. By passing this bill, the House has once again restated its commitment to both fiscal responsibility and the wellbeing of middle-class families. In California alone it is estimated that over 3 million families will be subject to the AMT this year, with 57,000 of those families residing in the 16th Congressional District. H.R. 4351 also includes an Incentive Stock Option (ISO) provision that corrects a severe inequity in the AMT tax system and finally resolves the ongoing AMT Incentive Stock Option crisis. This essential provision provides relief for hard working Americans who are treated unjustly by the tax burden caused when exercising their Incentive Stock Options. Under this important provision, employees will pay a fair and proportional tax on money actually made and will be relieved of the impossible burden of ongoing liability to pay taxes on income never received. This provision will help ensure that our companies continue attracting the best and brightest with competitive compensation packages. I urge my Republican colleagues in Congress and the President to set aside their partisan agenda, and move this legislation forward. They have delayed middle-class tax relief long enough. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
12.06.2007	Bill Would Increase America’s Energy IndependenceRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to pass the Energy Independence and Security Act, which increases American energy independence, strengthens national security, lowers energy costs, grows our economy and creates new jobs, and reduces global warming. The Energy Independence and Security Act increases the fuel efficiency of vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. This is the first increase in the fuel economy standard by Congress since 1975 and is supported by environmental groups, labor groups and the automobile industry. This provision will save American families $700 to $1,000 per year at the pump with $22 billion in net annual consumer savings by 2020. The legislation also includes: a six-year extension of the 30% residential investment tax credit for the purchase of residential solar water heating, photovoltaic equipment, and fuel cell power systems; an eight-year extension of the 30% business investment tax credit for the purchase of fuel cell power plants, solar energy property, and fiber-optic systems used to illuminate the inside of a structure; and increases the annual residential solar investment tax credit cap from $2,000 to $4,000. Additionally the Energy Independence and Security Act: Makes an historic commitment to American-grown biofuels; Requires for the first time that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources; Improves energy efficiency of a wide range of products, including appliances, lighting and buildings; and Invests in clean, renewable and alternative energy tax incentives to build viable markets and create jobs.“For far too long our nation has been held hostage by our energy policies,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill sets us down a path toward energy independence, environmental stewardship, and economic responsibility. It’s estimated that the passage of this bill will save Californians over $1.3 billion on electricity and natural gas costs by the year 2020, and will reduce global warming emissions by 84-126 million metric tons per year by 2020 (equivalent to 10 million - 15 million vehicles). The 110th Congress is taking America in a new direction. This legislation is a strong step forward in our efforts to make America the world’s clean alternative energy leader.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California
12.04.2007	Bill Would Enhance Efforts to Combat Human TraffickingRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to pass H.R. 3887, the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization of 2007. The legislation provides new tools and resources to those combating modern day slavery.“Slavery might seem like a closed chapter in our nation's history, but in the past decade, federal criminal civil rights prosecutions have uncovered cases of enslavement across the country,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This legislation, which proudly carries the name of noted anti-slavery legislator William Wilberforce, increases the resources available to state, local, and federal agencies fighting human trafficking. The bill also delivers on the promise of freedom by creating tough new enforcement tools to punish exploitation, whether by unscrupulous labor recruiters, diplomats who abuse their servants or brutal pimps. This bipartisan bill clearly illustrates our nation’s commitment to eradicating involuntary servitude and human trafficking.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.20.2007	Pocket Toy Safety Guides Available for DownloadRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today unveiled a set of downloadable toy safety guides for the 2007 holiday season. The guides, available in English, Spanish, and Vietnamese, are available for download below. Please note the guides are Adobe Acrobat files. English GuideSpanish GuideVietnamese GuideCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.16.2007	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced the Executive Branch Prosecutions Act, which would suspend the statute of limitations for crimes committed while the President and Vice President hold office. Federal law currently suspends the statute of limitations for crimes related to national security. This legislation would expand the suspension of the statue of limitations to any criminal act committed by the President or Vice President while in office. The bill is co-sponsored by Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI). “This bill will help ensure that even if executive branch officials are able to hide their wrong doing from the public while in office, they ultimately may be held accountable,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “I have long believed that accountability and transparency are cornerstones of our democracy.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.15.2007	Bill Balances American’s Constitutional Rights with Intelligence NeedsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement on her vote to pass H.R.3773, the RESTORE Act. This bill restores and protects constitutional rights which were trampled when Congress passed the Protect America Act of 2007, which I voted against. True to its name, the RESTORE Act restores the constitutional balance by supplying meaningful court review and minimization procedures for surveillance. The Framers of our Constitution understood that national security and individual liberty were not mutually exclusive. This bill gives our intelligence community the tools necessary to keep the country safe, without further eroding our civil liberties. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.14.2007	Bill Will Require the Start of the Redeployment Within 30 daysRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act, which would require the start of the redeployment of U.S. forces within 30 days of enactment, with a goal for completion of the redeployment by December 15, 2008. The bill provides $50 billion to meet the immediate needs of the troops, but defers consideration of the remainder of the President’s $200 billion request. In addition to the redeployment and funding language, the bill also includes provisions to:Prohibit deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped; Require a transition in the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq from primarily combat to force protection and diplomatic protection, limited support to Iraqi security forces, and targeted counterterrorism operations; Extend to all U.S. government agencies and personnel the current prohibitions in the Army Field Manual against torture.“Redeployment of our troops is long overdue,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill includes a concrete timeline for the safe and orderly withdrawal of our armed forces from harm’s way in Iraq. While far from perfect, this legislation is a solid step in ending what has now become the most expensive conflict in American history. It also specifically prohibits the use of torture by any American.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.09.2007	Bill Will Protect Millions of Middle-Class Families from AMTRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement on her vote to pass H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act. Today, I joined with a majority of my colleagues in the House in passing H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act, which corrects numerous inequities in our tax code. This bill, while not perfect, will protect 23 million middle class Americans from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). In California alone it is estimated that over 3 million families will be subject to the AMT this year, with 57,000 of those families residing in the 16th Congressional District. The bill will also provide 30 million homeowners with property tax relief, help 4.5 million families better afford college with the tuition deduction, extend the R&D tax credit to promote innovation and high-paying jobs, and save 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses. While concerned that several provision of the bill could adversely impact future venture capital investment, I believe that these provisions will be addressed as the Senate version of the bill moves forward. I’m delighted that H.R. 3996 does include an Incentive Stock Option (ISO) provision that corrects a severe inequity in the AMT tax system and finally resolves the ongoing AMT Incentive Stock Option crisis. This essential provision provides relief for hard working Americans who are treated unjustly by the tax burden caused when exercising their Incentive Stock Options. Under this important provision, employees will pay a fair and proportional tax on money actually made and will be relieved of the impossible burden of ongoing liability to pay taxes on income never received. This provision will help ensure that our companies continue attracting the best and brightest with competitive compensation packages. The bill does all of this while adhering to strict pay-as-you-go rules, reversing years of failed Republican policies that have mortgaged our grandchildren’s future and stuck our nation with $9 trillion of debt. It closes loopholes which have allowed a privileged few Wall Street insiders, many of whom earn hundreds of millions of dollars a year, to avoid paying their fair share of income tax. It also it includes provisions to stop hedge fund managers and corporate CEOs from escaping income taxes by using offshore tax havens as unlimited retirement accounts. Democrats are leading our nation in a new direction, one where fiscal responsibility, tax fairness, and economic growth are no longer mutually exclusive. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.08.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement on the House passage of the Peru Free Trade Agreement.Today, I voted to pass the Peru Free Trade Agreement because I believe that it is in the best interest of both countries. This bipartisan bill represents a new way for the United States to conduct trade. This new direction in trade opens and expands the world’s markets for our goods, while protecting American workers and jobs. Unlike previous free trade agreements, including CAFTA, the Peru FTA contains provisions that mandate protection of the environment, labor rights, and property rights. Free trade must be fair trade, and this agreement is a step in that direction. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.07.2007	Bill Would Protect Workers from Discrimination Based on Sexual OrientationRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R.3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). This legislation makes it illegal to fire, refuse to hire, or otherwise discriminate against employees simply based on their sexual orientation or perceived sexual orientation. ENDA applies to all private sector employers with 15 or more employees, employment agencies, labor organizations, and joint labor-management committees. The legislation does provide an exemption for private membership clubs and religious organizations, which are already exempt under Title VII’s religious discriminations prohibitions. “The Employment Non-Discrimination Act is an important piece of human rights legislation,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “While California already has state laws prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation, this bipartisan bill will finally grant those same protections to all Americans. For far too long Congress stood by and failed to protect the rights of the LGBT community. Every American should have the right to work and earn a living. This new Congress is charting a new direction, one where all American’s are guaranteed basic human rights and protections.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.06.2007	Bill Authorizes $359 Million for Local Water Development ProjectsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to override the President’s veto on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The House voted overwhelmingly, 361 to 54, to override the President’s ill advised veto. This bipartisan bill authorizes vital Corps of Engineers flood control, navigation, beach erosion control, and environmental restoration projects across the country. The bill also includes provisions authorizing $359 million for local water development projects. “The projects authorized in this bill are essential investments in our nation’s infrastructure,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “For far too long this administration and its Republican supporters in Congress have ignored the infrastructure needs of our communities. This veto override sends a clear message. Congress will no longer sit idly by while the administration fails to invest in much needed infrastructure.” The funding authorized for Santa Clara County projects includes: Upper Guadalupe River: Authorizes $244.5 million for protecting commercial and residential interests in downtown San Jose and improving the quality of the Guadalupe River. Llagas Creek: Authorizes $105 million for flood protection improvements that will protect 1,100 homes, 500 business, and over 1,300 acres of agricultural land. South San Francisco Bay Shoreline Study: This project will restore up to 25 square miles of habitat and provide flood protection to businesses in low-lying areas. Santa Clara County Advanced Recycled Water Treatment Plant: Authorizes $5.5 million which will help provide a reliable, constant supply of high quality recycled water for industry and irrigation to support sustainable, urban water use and protect Silicon Valley’s economy. San Francisco Bay/Santa Clara Desalination Project: Authorizes $4 million for increasing water supplies in the greater San Francisco Bay Area. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.06.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight on the current human rights situation in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.Click here for a webcast of the hearing. The full text Rep. Lofgren’s full testimony is below. Congresswoman Zoe LofgrenU.S. Representative16th District of California “Human Rights Concerns in Vietnam” Testimony before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight on November 6, 2007 Thank you, Chairman Delahunt, for holding this important hearing on the deplorable human rights situation in Vietnam, and I thank you for this opportunity to testify before your subcommittee.I have been a co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Vietnam for many years now. Despite what the current administration has said to the contrary, the human rights situation in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is now as bad or worse than it has been in previous years. President Bush gave assurances to Congress last year that the passage of Permanent Normal Trade Relations with Vietnam would strengthen human rights. I, and 160 other members of Congress, opposed this bill. Our opposition surprised the Republican House leadership at the time, and Vietnam Permanent Normal Trade Relations was defeated the first time it came up. Unfortunately, it was brought up again and passed as part of a large omnibus package.Ironically, at the time of these trade discussions, one of my constituents, American citizen Cong Thanh Do, was detained while vacationing in Vietnam with his family for writing pro-democracy articles on the internet from his home in San Jose, California. He was detained without charges for more than a month. The Administration was pressing to establish Permanent Normal Trade Relations with a country that was detaining one of its own for his free speech telling the truth while in the United States.Over the objection of many members, Congress approved Permanent Normal Trade Relations with Vietnam, and Vietnam subsequently joined the World Trade Organization in January. We have seen the disastrous consequences of these actions. We lost our leverage for human rights reform in Vietnam.Vietnamese police, on March 6, 2007, arrested a pair of human-rights lawyers, Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, for organizing training sessions for political activists in the capital. There are many other dissidents who have been imprisoned simply for expressing their thoughts and attempting to practice their faith freely and openly. Nguyen Van Dai has since been convicted of disseminating propaganda against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and received a five-year sentence. Le Thi Cong Nhan was sentenced to four years.A particularly troubling case was that of Le Quoc Quan, who was arrested on March 8th, the day he returned to Vietnam from his congressionally sponsored National Endowment for Democracy fellowship in the United States. His arrest was not only a human rights violation, it was a calculated insult to America and specifically to the United States Congress. He was released days before Vietnamese President Triet met with President Bush.On July 18th, peaceful land reform protestors assembled in Ho Chi Minh City to express their disappointment with the Vietnamese government’s policy of forced government land seizures. The Vietnamese responded to these peaceful protests with overwhelming force. Approximately 1,500 Vietnamese police were dispatched to break up a sit-in of 1,700 peasants. Reports indicated that approximately 30 peasants were severely injured through acts of violence by the police. I wrote to Vietnamese President Triet about this widely documented incident, and the response I received stated that “The complainants willingly dispersed themselves and there was no arrest or overreaction by the police.” I can’t say I’m surprised by the Vietnamese government’s response. This is just one in a series of lies and whitewashes.Vietnam claims it has made significant progress in allowing more freedom of religion, but this is simply untrue. Despite new laws that purport to allow registration of congregations and churches and a flood of applications, very few have been approved for legal operation. No real progress has been made. The litany of human rights abuses by the Vietnamese are too many to mention here, but the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom’s report gives one an idea of the breadth of targets of the Vietnamese government. According to the report, “The Vietnamese government continues to remain suspicious of ethnic minority religiousgroups, such as Montagnard and Hmong Protestants and Khmer Buddhists; those who seek to establish independent religious organizations, such as the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, Hao Hoa, and Cao Dai; and those it considers to pose a threat to national solidarity or security, such as ¥Dega’ Protestants and individual Mennonite, Catholic, Buddhist, and house church Protestant leaders.” I ask unanimous consent to enter into the record the Vietnam section of the 2007 United States Commission on International Religious Freedom report.With all of the human rights problems in Vietnam, the question we must ask as policy makers is, “What can we do to help?” The United States has the power to influence Vietnam on these important human rights issues through the use of our many diplomatic and economic tools, but the president and Congress need to have the political will and moral courage to use them. When the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom issued its yearly report on the status of religious freedoms in countries around the world, the commission made the same recommendation last year: Vietnam should be placed on the State Department’s list of Countries of Particular Concern because of government repression of many religious believers. I believe it was a mistake for the Bush administration to take Vietnam off the list last fall. I have written letters to the president and Secretary Rice urging the administration to follow the recommendation of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom and redesignate Vietnam a Country of Particular Concern.I believe the U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam, Michael Michalak, should provide financial support to the loved ones of the political detainees, using the Human Rights Defender’s fund. The wives of many of these political prisoners are left without any financial support. The United States has a moral commitment not just to the peaceful pro-human rights dissidents who have been imprisoned unjustly; we have a moral obligation to relieve the financial burden that these arrests have caused for the families of these brave defenders of freedom. Trade is perhaps the best leverage we have, and I don’t believe Congress and the president should have granted Permanent Normal Trade Relations without securing further progress on human rights in Vietnam. To correct that, I’ve introduced H. Res. 506, which states that we should “remove permanent normal trade relations status with Vietnam unless all political and religious prisoners are released and significant and immediate human rights reforms are made by the government of Vietnam.” Until the thugs in the Vietnamese government make real progress on human rights, I will continue to urge Congress and press this administration to stand up for the rights of the Vietnamese people to speak their minds and practice their faith. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.01.2007	Bill Would Create Federal Authority to Coordinate Multiple Recovery ProjectsToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced the Gulf Coast Civic Works Act of 2007, which will help ensure that real progress is made toward rebuilding and sustaining the Gulf Coast region. As part of a package of concurrent legislation, this bill establishes the Gulf Coast Recovery Authority to coordinate multiple recovery projects, rebuild key infrastructure, and revitalize the region’s workforce through the Gulf Coast Civic Works Project. The legislation, which is co-sponsored by Gulf Coast Representatives Charlie Melancon (D-LA) and Gene Taylor (D-MS), ensures that local community input is integrated into the decision making process and that local companies are given access to contracts. “I introduced this legislation to help ensure that the critical infrastructure along the gulf coast will be rebuilt in an efficient and responsible manner,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “It also establishes a framework to protect the interests of local workers, businesses, and communities while moving the rebuilding efforts forward. This bill will help fast-track the process of establishing sustainable industrial and commercial development along Gulf Coast. While Silicon Valley is a long way from the Gulf Coast, I believe that it is the responsibility of every Member of Congress to ensure that the federal government responds to the need of all Americans.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.30.2007	Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) introduced the Amerasian Paternity Recognition Act, to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide for equal treatment of Amerasian children.Unlike other foreign-born offspring of American fathers, Amerasians (children born to American fathers during the Vietnam and Korean Wars) are required to apply for naturalization and fulfill all the requirements of naturalization like immigrants who do not have U.S. citizen parents. This lengthy process is not ordinarily required of the sons and daughters of American citizens who gain U.S. citizenship based on the American citizenship of their parent. Many Amerasians never become U.S. citizens because of these requirements.“This legislation is about fairness and equality,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “Amerasians should not be treated differently than other sons and daughters born to U.S. citizen fathers. The time has come for Congress to right this historical injustice and recognize the children of American servicemen as American citizens. Amerasians deserve equal treatment under the law.” The Amerasian Paternity Recognition Act would recognize the U.S. citizenship of Amerasians who legally entered the U.S., or do so in the future, through the Amerasian Homecoming Act of 1988 or Section 204(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. For those who already entered, their citizenship would be recognized upon the effective date of the Amerasian Paternity Recognition Act without having to undergo any additional processes. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.30.2007	Bill Would Place Seven Year Moratorium on New Internet TaxesRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to pass as amended H.R. 3678, Internet Tax Moratorium Extension. The bill, which the United States Senate passed on a voice vote, extends the moratorium on state and local taxes on Internet access, which expires on November 1, 2007, for seven years — to November 1, 2014.“This bill is a welcome and refreshing instance of bipartisan, bicameral cooperation, and I’m proud to have voted for it,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “While I strongly support a permanent ban on internet access taxes and co-sponsored legislation to do just that, I voted for the seven-year extension, the longest ever passed by Congress, out of concern over the looming expiration of the moratorium. Those of us who live in Silicon Valley have long realized that the internet is one of the main drivers of the U.S. economy. The passage of this moratorium means that service providers will have more certainty when deciding whether to make critical investments in the basic infrastructure of the internet.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.25.2007	Bill Would Provide Coverage for 10 million ChildrenRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to pass H.R. 3963, a revised version of the Children's Health Insurance Reauthorization bill vetoed by President Bush earlier this month. The bill, which would provide 10 million American children with access to health care, directly addresses many of the objections the administration used as justification for President’s veto. The legislation includes provisions to ensure that: the focus would be first enrolling low-income children in SCHIP; SCHIP would not cover undocumented immigrants; SCHIP coverage of adults would be phased out; and children leaving private insurance for SCHIP would be minimized.“Once again the House has come together and passed a bipartisan measure to insure America’s children,” noted Rep. Lofgren. “This revised measure directly addresses many of the points raised by both the administration and my Republican colleagues in their opposition to the previous SCHIP bill. The time has come to enact this health care measure for America’s children.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.23.2007	Letter Calls Attention to DHS’s Treatment of Tran FamilyRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) joined with Representatives Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) and Christopher Smith (R-NJ) in co-signing a letter to President Bush asking him to clarify the administration’s policy on the deportation of refugees to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The letter references recent comments by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) personnel about the possible deportation of the Tran family to Vietnam. Mr. Tran, the patriarch of the family, fled Vietnam over two decades ago after escaping from a communist "re-education" camp. “The administration must clarify the alarming statements made by the Department of Homeland Security,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “I find it shocking that DHS would even consider deporting the Trans to Vietnam, where Mr. Tran had previously been imprisoned for anti-communist activities. The United States government should not be in the business of deporting people to totalitarian regimes.”"I was outraged to hear that the Bush Administration may be considering returning refugees to Vietnam. I am confident that if the Administration tries to implement this change that my House colleagues and I would take immediate action to block the deportation of refugees to Vietnam," said Rep. Loretta Sanchez.Full text of the letter below: October 23, 2007 President George W. BushThe United States of America1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20502 Dear Mr. President:I would like to draw your attention to a Los Angeles Times article printed on Friday, October 19, 2007 (please see attached). The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency (ICE) arrested several members of the Tran family and, according to the article, U.S. officials are considering returning these refugees, who escaped “re-education” camps after the Vietnam War, to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.This came as a surprise to us and is a change in current U.S. policy. When Chairwoman Lofgren met with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice last month for the annual refugee consultation, Secretary Rice did not suggest or even hint at any change in U.S. policy regarding the return of refugees to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.As a result, we are writing to confirm whether this troubling assertion is in fact a real and/or proposed change to U.S. policy. We are confident that Congress would express strong objections to any such change on the return of refugees to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.As you know, the U.S. Department of State has described the human rights situation in Vietnam as “unsatisfactory” in the 2006 Country Report on Human Rights Practices. The March 6, 2007 document states that, “Citizens could not change their government, and political opposition movements were officially prohibited and some activists arrested€.” The Government of Vietnam maintains control over the press and the internet, continues to abuse “suspects during arrest, detention, and interrogation” and arbitrarily detains political activists. Vietnam suppresses freedom of religion, speech, press, assembly, movement and association. The State Department is not the only voice warning us about the state of human rights in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) has reported that “Vietnam has initiated a severe crackdown on human rights defenders and advocates for the freedoms of speech, association and assembly, including many religious leaders.”USCIRF has recommended that Vietnam again be placed on the list of Countries of Particular Concern (CPC). In addition, Amnesty International reports that "Vietnamese lawyers, trade unionists, religious leaders and Internet dissidents have been detained or imprisoned in increasing numbers in recent months. Amnesty International is deeply concerned over an ongoing crackdown by the Vietnamese government against people who have done nothing but peacefully express their opinions."In light of the above, we would find it most troubling if there has been a fundamental alteration to U.S. policy on the return of refugees to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, particularly if this has been done without notifying Congress. We respectfully request clarification on this matter as soon as possible. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren Loretta SanchezChair, Subcommittee on Chair, Subcommittee on Border, Immigration, Refugees, Border Maritime, & Global CounterterrorismSecurity, & International Law Christopher SmithRanking Member, Subcommittee on Africa & Global Health Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.18.2007	Bill Would Have Expanded Access to Health Insurance for Needy ChildrenRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to override the President’s veto of the bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance bill, which would have provided health care coverage for 10 million children. “I’m deeply saddened that Republicans in the House ignored the needs of America's families” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Despite the request of our Governor, California’s Republican Members of Congress put their party ahead of our state’s children and voted against overriding the veto. In California alone over 1.8 million children would have been eligible for coverage under this bill, and in the 16th Congressional District we currently have over 13,000 children enrolled in the program. While the veto override vote has failed, the fight to insure children will go forward. I will continue working with my colleagues in both houses to pass a bill that expands access to the Children’s Health Insurance Program.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.10.2007	Legislation Would Encourage Secondary Schools to Open LaterRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced H.Con.Res.227, the ZZZ’s to A’s Act, which encourages secondary schools to begin the school at 9:00 a.m. later. According to the National Sleep Foundation (NSF) 60% of children under the age of 18 complain that they are tired during the day. Research has also shown that secondary school students perform better later in the day than early in the morning. A study by Brown University Professor Mary A. Carskadon found that melatonin secretion occurred at a later time in adolescents as they mature; thus, making it difficult for them to go to sleep earlier at night. The melatonin secretion also turns off later in the morning, which makes it harder to wake up early. Over time, sleep deprivation leads to serious consequences for academic achievement, social behavior, and the health and safety of our nation's youth.“This legislation will bring much needed attention to adolescent sleep deprivation,” commented Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Science has shown us that sleep and achievement are linked, for students to be successful they need their sleep. School hours should mirror adolescents' biological sleep and wake patterns and more closely resembling the adult work day. The ZZZ’s to A’s Act legislation is an important step in addressing the health needs of America’s students.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.10.2007	Legislation Would Allow Servicemembers to Terminate Cumbersome ContractsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced H.R. 3786, the Servicemembers' Telecom Contract Relief Act, which allows members of the armed services to terminate certain contracts for telecommunications services when they are called to active duty, face an involuntary extension of the period of military service, or are deployed overseas to a location where those services are not available. The bill applies to contracts for cellular phone service, cable or satellite television service, and internet service. To terminate a contract, a servicemember would be required to send written notice to the service provider along with a copy of their military orders. “The brave men and women serving in our armed forces need the flexibility this bill provides,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “At a time when our sailors, soldiers, airmen, and marines must concentrate on their missions — and on their safety — they shouldn't be worrying about the bills for their cell phone, cable, or internet service back home. While many telecommunications companies have already demonstrated their commitment to our armed forces, this bill would provide our nation’s defenders with additional peace of mind. While we can never truly repay the sacrifices that our armed forces make in the service of their country, we can give them our utmost support and alleviate some of their financial burdens.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.10.2007	Bill Would Expand and Protect Access to Affordable HousingRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 2895, The National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act of 2007, which establishes a national affordable housing trust fund to build or preserve 1.5 million homes or apartments over the next 10 years. The bill will initially allocate between $800 million and $1 billion annually directly to states and local communities and is funded through fees from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and does not increase government spending or the federal deficit. The Trust Fund will focus on funding the construction of affordable housing and on helping lower income families facing the greatest housing affordability challenges. Grant recipients have to match every dollar of trust funds with either 25% in other federal funds, 12.5% in state, local, or private resources, or a combination of the two. The bill also includes a provision that allows state and local governments to give preference to public employees, first responders, public safety officers, and teachers who meet the income eligibility requirements when filling for affordable housing.“I’m proud to have both voted for and co-sponsored this important legislation,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Accessibility to safe and affordable housing is a growing concern among the working families of Santa Clara County. This bill will help state and local governments across the Country fund the creation and preservation of much needed affordable housing. The bill also ensures that funds will only be spent on the actual housing needs by prohibiting the use of funds for administrative costs or expenses, political activities, advocacy, lobbying, counseling, and travel expenses. I will continue working to address the need for safe, adequate, and affordable housing in our communities.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
10.02.2007	Bill Would Instruct President to Report Redeployment Plan to CongressRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 3087, a bipartisan bill which would require the President and senior Administration officials to report to Congress on its planning for the redeployment of troops in Iraq within 60 days and every 90 days thereafter. The bill also includes language recognizing the extreme valor of our armed forces and civilians serving in Iraq. “This bill is a tiny step forward in ensuring the safe return of our forces from Iraq,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “While it does not end the war, it at least requires the President to begin to plan to end the war. As my record demonstrates, I remain fully committed to the swiftest possible withdrawal of all our forces from Iraq, and will continue working to that end.”Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.18.2007	Bill Would Authorize $2 million for Human Rights Defenders in VietnamRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2007, which focuses on Vietnam’s suppression of religious liberty and the pro-democracy movement. The bill, which Rep. Lofgren co-sponsored, includes provisions to fund human rights work in Vietnam and to fund jamming override technology for Radio Free Asia. It also includes provisions to extend U.S. refugee programs to Vietnamese who would have previously been eligible but missed deadlines because of circumstances beyond their control or are suffering persecution in Vietnam.The bill includes the following provisions:Authorizes $2 million for FY 2008 and FY 2009 for NGOs, the Human Rights Defenders Fund and individuals and organizations that promote universally recognized human rights in Vietnam<!--[if !supportLists]--> Authorizes $9.1 million for FY 2008 in and $1.1 million in FY 2009 for radio jamming override technologyProhibits an increase in nonhumanitarian U.S. assistance to Vietnam in FY 2008<!--[endif]--> Calls upon the Secretary of State to issue an annual report that includes an explanation of the President’s determination on nonhumanitarian foreign assistance, the status of protection of human rights, progress towards rule of law, a comprehensive victims list, progress towards securing transmission of Radio Free Asia<!--[endif]--> Establishes as U.S. policy the extension of the U.S. refugee programs to Vietnamese who would have previously been eligible but missed deadlines because of circumstances beyond their control or are suffering persecution in Vietnam“Vietnam’s horrible record on human rights must not be allowed to stand,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The growing economic ties between the United States and Vietnam should not be used as an excuse to turn our backs on the suffering of the Vietnamese people. This bill will help give the Vietnamese people the tools and information they need to fight for change from within. By passing this bill, the House of Representatives has sent a strong message to the tyrants in Hanoi that we will not sit idly by.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.11.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to General Petraeus’ report to Congress. The Bush-Petraeus report urges a continuation of the status quo. As three independent reports have pointed out, President Bush’s stay-the-course policy has failed. Each report makes clear that the security situation in Iraq remains extremely dangerous and volatile. General Petraeus himself has said that there is no military solution to Iraq -- only a political solution is possible. Nothing I heard from General Petraeus or Ambassador Crocker reassures me that there is a coherent strategy to achieve the political changes in Iraq that will lead to a successful conclusion there.I believe our armed forces have served bravely and admirably. Where they are sent to fight, they win battles. The failure of a coherent political and diplomatic strategy in Iraq is a failure of command and a failure of leadership, not a failure of our troops. The time is long past to bring them home. Their brave service in Iraq has not been honored with a realistic plan by their commanders to bring the Iraq War to a suitable conclusion. I remain committed to ending this President’s failed war.I voted against beginning this war in 2002 and have voted with a majority of my Democratic colleagues since on a variety of measures to end the war. Unfortunately, most of my Republican colleagues and President Bush refuse to stand with the American people and end these disastrous policies. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
09.07.2007	Bill Includes Lofgren Amendment on VenueRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today hailed the House’s approval of the bipartisan Patent Reform Act of 2007. The bill, which Rep. Lofgren co-sponsored and has worked on for over five years, reforms existing patent law to ensure that America remains at the forefront of global research and development efforts. Included in the bill was a bipartisan amendment authored by Rep. Lofgren that combats the recent growth in opportunistic forum shopping by plaintiffs in patent litigation.“I’m delighted that the House of Representatives has come together in a bipartisan manner to address the need for comprehensive reform in our intellectual property system,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “I believe this bill strikes the right balance between the need for strong patent rights and the encouragement of innovation. My amendment to the bill, which was incorporated into the manager’s amendment, goes a long way towards addressing this balance by focusing on the troubling growth of forum shopping in patent litigation. The amendment restores fairness and clarity to patent litigation by removing the most glaring instances of forum shopping by patent trolls.” “As a representative from Silicon Valley, which has one of the most vibrant and diverse economies in the world, I’m keenly aware of the need for comprehensive patent reform. This bill will help our nation and the Valley maintain their global preeminence in research and development. Our patent system was last updated over fifty years ago, and it’s time that we bring it into the digital age.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.27.2007	Community Marches on August 27 to highlight Poverty and HomelessnessRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today released the following statement applauding local community efforts to end homelessness and poverty. Local advocacy groups are in a march against poverty and homelessness on August 27, 2007. Coalition groups include: Santa Clara County Collaborative on Affordable Housing and Homelessness; Charities Housing, Sacred Heart Community Services; Catholic Charities; CHAM Deliverance Ministry; Affordable Housing Network; Low-Income Self-Help Center; and, the Neighborhood Housing Services Silicon Valley.I have long admired the contributions that these advocacy and service groups have made in the fight to end poverty and homelessness, both in Santa Clara County and throughout our nation. As a supporter of both the National Homeless Task Force Act (HR 3385) and the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act (HR 2895), I share the concerns about the lack of affordable housing and adequate housing. Recently, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (HR 1851) which reauthorized the Section 8 program through fiscal year 2012, and updated and improved funding formulas for the program. As the new majority in Congress continues its efforts to address poverty and homelessness, I look forward to working with the coalition and its affiliated organizations to fight homelessness and poverty in Santa Clara County and through our nation.I applaud those involved in the march for their commitment to addressing our community’s homelessness and poverty, and encourage all of San Jose’s residents to join in. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.24.2007	Five California Members Sign Letter Calling for Pacheco Pass RouteRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), joined with Representatives Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Sam Farr (D-Monterey), Mike Honda (D-Campbell), and Tom Lantos (D-San Mateo) in signing a letter strongly endorsing the Pacheco Pass route for California’s High Speed Rail Project. The complete text of the letter is below: August 20, 2007 Mehdi MorshedExecutive DirectorCalifornia High Speed Rail Authority925 L St., Ste. 1425Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Mr. Morshed,We are writing to express our strong support of California’s High Speed Rail Project. We believe that the project will transform the state’s transportation network into a much safer system that will serve our growing population for this century and the next in a way that can boost our economy while protecting our environment. We recently reviewed the Northern Mountain Crossing Corridor Study you released concerning different possible routes from the Bay Area to the Central Valley. We all agree that the High Speed Train network should serve all three major cities: San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose. However, upon reviewing the document it is clear that the Pacheco Pass alternative provides a better level of service with a greater number of trains stopping in San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose on a daily basis. The Pacheco Pass route is also the least damaging to our region’s natural resources. In order to connect the Bay Area to the Central Valley using an alternative option, the Altamont Pass, would require building a new high level bridge over the San Francisco Bay. The Altamont Pass option would also require construction through the Don Edwards Wildlife Refuge with additional impacts on the San Francisco Bay and Palo Alto shore of the Bay. This alone is a good enough reason in our opinion to reject the Altamont Pass outright. The impact the Altamont Pass would have on the environment could well make us rethink our support of any federal funding for the project. We believe there is sufficient and compelling data to determine that the Pacheco Pass is the best option for the High Speed Train to serve the Bay Area. We thank you for your consideration and will continue to follow the issue closely. Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren Michael Honda Anna EshooSam Farr Tom Lantos Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.10.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the Bush administration's announcement on immigration policy.While I strongly agree with the administration that our immigration system is in desperate need of reform, I am skeptical that this Administration can deliver on its promises.Simply re-branding the Basic Pilot electronic employment verification program as “E-Verify” will not solve the high error rate that has plagued this program since its inception a decade ago. It is unclear how the Bush Administration plans to avoid the potentially massive lay-offs of American citizens likely to result from the expanded program and defective databases.I welcome the belated push to complete the exit portion of the US VISIT program. Unfortunately, the Administration's plan fails to address the cyber-security vulnerabilities with this program identified by the Government Accountability Office (GAO).In addition, I agree with the Administration in recognizing that our employment-based visa system is far too complex and cumbersome. I will evaluate the details of its plan as they are released. Nevertheless, the answer is surely not to weaken protections that assure that American workers are not undercut by a foreign workforce willing to work for less than prevailing wages.The Administration finally recognizes that it has failed in its duties to administer the immigration laws. We shall see whether a dysfunctional agency that deports an American citizen and cannot keep count of the number of visas issued can effectively implement these proposals. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.08.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the safe return of Pedro Guzman to his family in United States.This entire situation is nothing less than a broad indictment of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) policies and procedures. Mr. Guzman’s needless suffering was the direct result of systematic failures spread throughout the department. We have a case where two of the department’s core agencies, Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP), completely failed to safeguard the rights and wellbeing of an American citizen. I find the department’s failures completely unacceptable and unforgivable. The Department of Homeland Security exists for one purpose, to safeguard the lives of Americans. Mr. Guzman’s plight is a clear indicator that DHS has failed at its core mission. I plan to get to the bottom of this debacle. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.05.2007	Bill Would Require 1031 Intermediaries to be InsuredRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced the 1031 Regulation Act of 2007, which requires qualified intermediaries in a 1031 exchange be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or under the Federal Credit Union Act (FCUA). The Act takes the role of the intermediary out of the hands of individuals who are abusing their position and places it in the hands of insured and reputable institutions.“After hearing from many my constituents, including those who suffered considerable financial lose, I decided to introduce legislation to regulate 1031 exchanges,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill will help ensure that the recent financials loses we saw in the Bay Area will not happen again. By mandating insurance coverage for 1031 intermediaries, we significantly reduce the risk of unscrupulous fly-by-night operators bilking consumers out of their assets.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.02.2007	America COMPETES Act Enables U.S. to Meet Global Economic Challenges— Today, Silicon Valley Representatives Anna G. Eshoo, Zoe Lofgren and Mike Honda joined together in saluting final House passage of legislation making major investments in education, science and technology to ensure America’s global economic competitiveness for generations to come.The House voted 367 to 57 to approve the conference report on H.R. 2272, the America COMPETES Act of 2007. The legislation implements key elements of House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda: A Commitment to Competitiveness, a set of policy proposals developed as a result of extensive consultations and meetings with industry and academic leaders across the country that began in September 2005 at Stanford University.“Americans have always accepted it as an article of faith that the United States leads the world in invention, ingenuity, and innovation,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, a member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. “But our nation is in serious danger of failing behind our global competitors in the critical fields of innovation and technology. This legislation boldly responds to the challenges we face with investments that will lay the groundwork for regaining our economic footing and ensuring that the 21st Century is an American Century.”“As one of the Members who originally worked with Speaker Pelosi to draft the precursor to today’s bill, The Innovation Agenda, I’m delighted to see H.R. 2272 pass,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. “I salute Speaker Pelosi for her outstanding dedication to these issues and leadership that has brought us to this point today. The effort to craft The Innovation Agenda, and now pass the H.R. 2272 conference report today, is a bold response to the global economic challenges our country faces. And, I know that my Silicon Valley district will enthusiastically employ the tools and investments put forth in this bill to help ensure that America remains the most competitive and innovative nation in the world.”Rep. Mike Honda, D-San Jose, a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science and the Committee on Science and Technology Subcommittee on Technology and Innovation, noted, “H.R. 2272 will provide America’s next generation of innovators the tools they need to keep America the world leader in science and technology. At an innovation summit I hosted in San Jose, the participants emphasized America’s unique ¥outside of the box’ approach to innovation which has enabled us to become world technology leaders. I am pleased that the conference report includes a provision I authored that will help us learn about the traits of particularly innovative people and to ¥teach innovation’ as we carry out the Democrats’ Innovation Agenda.”The America COMPETES Act ensures that American students, teachers, businesses, and workers are prepared to continue leading the world in innovation, research and technology. The legislation:Invests in 25,000 new teachers and ensures more highly qualified teachers in math, science, engineering, technology and foreign languages.Doubles authorized founding for the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP).Establishes the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E) to nurture innovation in energy research.Senate approval of the Conference Report, expected this week, will send H.R. 2272 to the President for his signature. This legislation is supported by numerous groups and companies, including: the Association of American Universities (AAU), the Business Roundtable, the Business Software Alliance (BSA), the Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA), IBM, the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA), Symantec, TechNet, and Technology CEOs Council. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.01.2007	Bill Would Give Parents More Child Support OptionsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced H.R. 3258, the Single Parent Protection Act of 2007, which would allow an individual who is entitled to receive child support, but not receiving it, a tax credit equal to the amount of unpaid child support. The bill would also increase the tax liability of the individual required to pay such support by the amount of the unpaid child support. “This bill would give custodial parents another tool to help them collect unpaid child support,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Unfortunately, there are far too many parents who regularly fail to pay their court ordered child support. It is estimated that less than 30% of eligible parents receive the full child support payment they are entitled to. This is unacceptable, and this bill would help give custodial parents the financial support and stability they need to provide for their children. The bill would also send a strong message to those parents who consistently fail to meet the child support payments; they can no longer run from their responsibilities.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
08.01.2007	Bill Would Help Insure Up To 11 Million ChildrenRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 3162, Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act), which reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for 6 million children and provides 5 million more children with health coverage. The bill also protects Medicare from privatization and promotes fiscal responsibility by phasing out over four years overpayments to private plans. These overpayments to private plans cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars, and are the result of a decade-long campaign by the previous GOP-led Congresses to privatize Medicare by undermining traditional Medicare and promoting private HMOs. Additionally, the bill ensures that seniors and people with disabilities can continue to see the doctors of their choice by stopping a scheduled 10 percent payment cut to doctors in January 2008 and a 5 percent cut in January 2009, and makes preventive health check-ups — like tests, screenings, and vaccines — more affordable for seniors by eliminating co-payments and deductibles, saving lives and money.“This bill gives states like California, which already has 800,000 kids on CHIP, the tools and incentives necessary to reach millions of uninsured children who are eligible for, but not enrolled in, in the CHIP program,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “By passing this bill, Congress will help ensure that Santa Clara County’s children and seniors will receive the health care services they need to stay healthy. By giving people access to quality preventative care, we also reduce the strain on our health care safety net by lessening the need for costly emergency room visits.” The CHAMP Act is also supported by: the American Association of Retired People (AARP), the American Medical Association (AMA), the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and numerous other prominent groups. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.30.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced a bill to void the recent increases in immigration fees by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The bill would void the new fee structure set to take effect today and reinstate the previous fee structure. The bill also states that USCIS has consistently failed to reduce application backlogs and has suffered from a lack of transparency and effective management. “Our immigration services need to move into the 21st century,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “But, USCIS has consistently failed to explain or justify the amounts and distributions of this new fee increase. While I agree that USCIS needs to modernize its existing infrastructure and procedures, they must do so in a transparent and open manner. After repeated requests over several months, USCIS has yet to provide Congress with a detailed plan for its infrastructure modernization efforts. Our immigration system should be both effective and fair; sacrificing one to achieve the other should not be an option.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.24.2007	Rep. Lofgren Sends Letter to Vietnamese PresidentRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today sent a letter to Vietnamese President Triet, expressing her “serious disappointment regarding the treatment of the peaceful protesters in Ho Chi Minh City on July 18, 2007.” The letter, which calls on the Vietnamese President to personally explain the brutal crackdown on peaceful human rights activists, was also forwarded to Secretary of State Rice. The letter also states that Vietnam is failing to meet the human rights standards that the Unites States expects from its trading partners and that it must make a strong commitment to the promotion of human rights.The complete text of the letter is below:July 24, 2007 His ExcellencyPresident Trietc/o Embassy of Vietnam1233 20th Street, NW #400Washington, DC 20036Dear President Triet: I am writing to express my serious disappointment regarding the treatment of the peaceful protesters in Ho Chi Minh City on July 18, 2007. It is my understanding that approximately 1,500 Vietnamese police were dispatched to break up a peaceful sit-in of 1,700 peasants. I have seen reports that approximately 30 peasants were severely injured through acts of violence by the police. As a Member of Congress who has advocated for human rights in Vietnam, I am very concerned about these reports of police violence at a peaceful sit-in. I am especially concerned given that you recently visited with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on June 22 and she expressed to you the importance of human rights in the relationship between the United States and Vietnam. She and other Members of Congress have made it clear that if the relationship between our two countries is to develop, Vietnam must make a strong commitment to the promotion of human rights. In fact, prior to Vietnam’s accession to the World Trade Organization, you and President Bush affirmed that human rights must be an inexorable part of Vietnam’s integration into the world community. These sentiments were echoed by President Bush during your recent visit to the United States. Given the discussion of the importance of human rights at your June 2007 meeting with Speaker Pelosi and Members of Congress, I am disappointed and disturbed by the reports of police brutality in Ho Chi Minh City on July 18, 2007. I expect to see the Government of Vietnam pay serious attention to human rights. The continued reports of human rights violations in Vietnam in the recent months are failing to convince the people of the United States that Vietnam meets the human rights standards expected of trading partners and members of the international community. I would like to hear from you directly why these violent actions were taken by the police against peaceful protestors. Respectfully,Zoe LofgrenMember of Congress cc:The Honorable Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.18.2007	Committee Adopts Lofgren Amendment on VenueRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today hailed the Judiciary Committee’s approval of the bipartisan Patent Reform Act of 2007. The bill, which Rep. Lofgren co-sponsored and has worked on for over five years, reforms existing patent law to ensure that America remains at the forefront of global research and development efforts. Also adopted by the committee was a bipartisan amendment introduced by Rep. Lofgren that combats the recent growth in opportunistic venue shopping by plaintiffs in patent litigation.“I’m pleased that many of the most contentious issues surrounding patent reform have been addressed in a bipartisan manner,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. I’d like to commend my colleagues for moving this bill forward and for accepting my amendment on venue selection in patent cases. This amendment goes a long way toward addressing the troubling growth of forum shopping in patent litigation. I will continue working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to ensure that this bill is further improved and ultimately becomes law. By balancing the need for patent rights with those of encouraging innovation, this bill will help our nation maintain its global preeminence in research and development.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.17.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement in response to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff’s planned announcement on adjustment of status applications. The Secretary of Homeland Security in a phone call today informed me that a solution to the Visa Bulletin fiasco has been found. The Department of State will issue an August Visa Bulletin that permits the filing of adjustment of status applications through August 17, 2007, at the current fee level, which will be accepted through that date by the Department of Homeland Security. I’m pleased that a reasonable solution has been reached. I will continue to monitor the situation to ensure that both the Departments of State and Homeland Security follow through properly with this plan. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.16.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representatives Mike Honda (CA-15) and Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) today announced that they have secured over $13 million for water, justice, transportation, housing, and health projects in Santa Clara County. These funds, secured in the Energy and Water, Transportation/Housing Urban Development, Commerce, Justice, Science, and Labor/Health and Human Services FY08 appropriations bills, are allocated to projects that improve the quality of life for all the county’s residents. Rep. Honda commented, “As a Santa Clara County native representing his family, friends and neighbors in the U.S. Congress, my greatest responsibility is to ensure that our region’s vital public services, innovative, entrepreneurial spirit and critical infrastructure remain world class. The appropriations bills passed out of committee this week address some of our area’s — and the nation’s — most important needs. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am honored to be able to play a role in this process, in Santa Clara County and, indeed, across the country.” “I’m delighted to announce these funds for local projects,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Whether it’s housing for working families, job training for at risk youth, transit improvements, or flood control, the projects funded by these federal dollars benefit all of San Jose’s residents. I’d like to thank Rep. Honda for his diligence and dedication in our efforts to help secure these funds. Together, we will work to ensure that federal dollars continue flowing into our community.” The projects receiving funding are: Coyote and Berryessa Creeks Protection $1,500,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSan Jose Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project $1,500,000Santa Clara Valley Water Upper Penitencia Creek Project $300,000Santa Clara Valley WaterGuadalupe River Flood Control Project $1,000,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSouth San Francisco Bay Shoreline Study $500,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSan Luis Reservoir Low Point Improvement Project $1,400,000Santa Clara Valley WaterSanta Clara County for Juvenile Detention Reform $388,000Santa Clara County for the Crime Lab $1,000,000City of San Jose for the BEST Youth Gang Reduction Program $375,000San Jose State University $225,000for Training the Next Generation of Weather ForecastersUniversity of California, Santa Cruz $300,000for the Bio-Info-Nano Research and Development Institute (BIN-RDI)Robotic Exploration Technologies in Astrobiology $300,000(RETINA) projectCalifornia Indian Legal Services $300,000Tribal Court Development ProjectNational Institute on State Policy $400,000on Trafficking of Women and GirlsGardner Health Clinic $300,000Community Health Partnership — $200,000Healthy Women, Healthy ChoicesIndia Community Center $300,000City of Early Start/Great Start $172,000City of San Jose — Services for New Immigrants $200,000Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN) $100,000Santa Clara University Library $500,000Building Trade Jobs for At-Risk Out-of-School Youth $250,000Center for Employment TrainingEarly Childhood Development Initiative-NHU $150,000City of San Jose, National Hispanic UniversityAACI Community Health Clinic $378,000Asian Americans for Community InvolvementBlossom Hill/Monterey Grade Crossing $100,000Affordable Homes for San Jose Families $150,000San Jose Conservation Corps & Charter School YouthbuildFirst-Time Homebuyer Assistance Program $150,000Housing Trust of Santa Clara County, Inc.Bus Rapid Transit Alternatives Analysis $100,000Santa Clara VTASobrato House Youth Facility $200,000Emergency Housing ConsortiumSan Tomas Expressway Culvert Repair $250,000Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) $250,000<!--[if !supportLists]--><!--[endif]-->High Occupancy Toll (HOT) lanesVTA Zero Emission Bus Program $400,000 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.12.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the passage of the bipartisan Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007. The bill authorizes the Section 8 low-income housing voucher program through FY 2012, alters calculations of income, tenant rent, and public housing authority (PHA) funding, and establishes a new reliable funding allocation formula for the renewal of Section 8 vouchers.“Working families deserve access to safe, affordable housing. This bill, which includes provisions to expand rental assistance opportunities, improve program efficiencies, and encourage family self-sufficiency, gives local housing authorities the resources and tools they need to make housing more accessible to those in need. The bill authorizes a total of 100,000 new vouchers over the next five years and allows housing agencies to let families use housing vouchers as a down-payment on a first-time home purchase. Adequate and safe housing should not be a luxury only afforded to the wealthy.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.11.2007	Bill Would Increase Maximum Pell Grant Scholarship by $500Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, which provides for the single largest expansion in funds for higher education since the GI bill. The bill cuts interest rates in half on subsidized student loans over the next five years and increases the maximum Pell Grant scholarship by $500 over the next five years, and does it in a fiscally responsible matter. The bill reduces excess subsidies that the federal government pays to lenders in the college loan industry. Congress has ensured that no new costs will be incurred by taxpayers and that pay-as-you-go budget rules are observed. The bill would: Cut excess subsidies paid by the federal government to lenders in the student loan industry. Make student loan payments more manageable for borrowers by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15 percent of their discretionary income in loan repayments, and allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 20 years. Increase federal loan limits to provide borrowers with additional assistance in paying for college and to help them rely less on costlier private loans. Provide upfront tuition assistance to qualified undergraduate students who commit to teaching in public schools in high-poverty communities or high-need subject areas. Provide loan forgiveness for first responders, law enforcement officers, firefighters, nurses, public defenders, prosecutors, early childhood educators, librarians and others. Establish a partnership with federal, state and local government entities and philanthropic organizations through matching challenge grants aimed at increasing the number of first generation and low-income college students. “The College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 reaffirms America’s commitment to higher education for all,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This is a signature moment, not only for our college students and their families, but also for our economic competitiveness and our future as a nation. If we are to maintain our position in the world, we must work to ensure that every qualified American student is given the opportunity to succeed and contribute. In California alone there are 228,489 students using need-based federal student loans each year to attend public universities who would benefit from a cut in interest rates and an additional 646,664 who could benefit from an increase in the Pell Grant. This bill will help make college affordable to America’s students while at the same time maintaining fiscal responsibility.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.11.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff requesting “all correspondence, e-mails, memoranda, notes, field guidance or other documentation relating to the issuance” of the “Update to July Visa Availability” on July 2, 2007. The letter contains thirteen separate questions and requests for information relevant to the issuance of the updated Visa Bulletin. “The Department’s unprecedented decision to reject adjustment of status applications has caused needless hardship and disruption to countless immigrants,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “It has also come to my attention that USCIS began returning visa numbers to the State Department as early as Thursday, July 5, 2007, due to their inability to review applications effectively. The Department of Homeland Security has once again demonstrated its inability to complete even its core missions. This debacle demonstrates the need for more transparency and oversight of the department’s operations and procedures.” The full text of the letter is included below: July 11, 2007The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff:On July 2, 2007, the Department of State (DOS) issued an “Update to July Visa Availability,” which the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) apparently relied on to suspend its acceptance of adjustment of status applications based on employment-based immigrant petitions. DOS and DHS acted on these matters despite my request that the agencies provide the Subcommittee with certain information before taking such actions.At no point since my letter to you dated July 2, 2007, have I received any information in writing from the Department. Given this failure, I am now requesting that you provide to me, within three days of the date of this letter, the following information:1. All correspondence, e-mails, memoranda, notes, field guidance or other documentation relating to the issuance of or the Department of Homeland Security's actions regarding the July Visa Bulletin, which made all employment-based immigrant visa categories (except the “other worker” category) current. The term “Department of Homeland Security” includes DHS or any component thereof.2. All e-mails, correspondence, memoranda, notes, field guidance or other documentation relating to the issuance of or the Department of Homeland Security's actions regarding the “Update to July Visa Availability” issued on July 2, 2007. The term “Department of Homeland Security” includes DHS or any component thereof.3. All correspondence, e-mails, memoranda, notes, field guidance or other documentation between the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State, the Department of Justice and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation relating to the availability of visa numbers for the month of July 2007, the issuance of or the Department of Homeland Security’s actions regarding the “Update to July Visa Availability” issued on July 2, 2007, the processing of security or name checks in connection with visa number requests through the end of FY 2007, and/or the determination to suspend or reject the acceptance of adjustment of status applications. The terms “Department of Homeland Security,” “Department of State,” “Department of Justice” and “Federal Bureau of Investigation” include DHS, DOS, DOJ, FBI or any components of those agencies.4. A detailed description of any existing or proposed understanding, arrangement and/or agreement between DHS (or any component thereof, including, but not limited to, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services) and the FBI (or any component thereof) relating to name checks or other security checks conducted with respect to immigration applications or petitions.5. A detailed description of how DHS and/or the FBI expect the processes for such name or security checks to change through the end of FY 2007, and, in particular, within the month of July 2007.6. A detailed description, including, but not limited to, a statistical tallying, of all employment-based immigration cases, petitions, applications or other files for which DHS (or any component thereof, including, but not limited to USCIS) requested a visa number between May 2007 and July 2, 2007, inclusive, for which any name or security check was pending, uncompleted or otherwise awaiting action on a security or name check. (Hereinafter, such cases will be referred to as cases for which visa numbers were “pre-requested.”)7. The specific legal authority on which DHS (or any component thereof, including, but not limited to, USCIS) relied to “pre-request” visa numbers for cases, applications, petitions or other files for which security or name checks were pending, uncompleted or otherwise awaiting action. The response to this question shall include copies of the specific legal authority, including statutory provisions, regulations, field manuals, policy memoranda, policy guidance or other documentation relied upon, as well as the date or dates on which such authority was last revised or issued, the substance of any revision and the original text that was revised.8. Any and all correspondence, e-mails, memoranda, field guidance, notes or other documentation discussing or referencing the agency’s decision to “pre-request” visa numbers for which security or name checks were pending, uncompleted or otherwise awaiting action.9. Any and all field guidance, e-mails, correspondence, memoranda, notes or other documentation discussing or referencing the agency’s plans, policies or other proposed or expected actions in the event security or name checks for cases, applications, petitions or other files for which the agency “pre-requested” visa numbers are not or do not get completed during July 2007 or the remainder of FY 2007, including, but not limited to, whether the agency has proposed or intends to return, or has discussed returning, visa numbers for such cases to DOS.10. Any and all correspondence, e-mails, memoranda, notes or other documentation between DHS (including any component thereof, including, but not limited to, USCIS) and DOS regarding the availability of visa numbers for June 2007, July 2007, or any remaining month of FY 2007, including, but not limited to, the anticipated numbers available during such months, the expected or anticipated usage of or requests for such numbers and/or the update, revision, restatement or alteration of the July Visa Bulletin.11. Any and all records or other documentation (with a summary for ease of analysis) regarding historic patterns of overtime ordered for work on weekends, including specifically the weekend leading up to July 2, 2007, and the reasons in each case that prompted the overtime, for the past three years.12. Any and all records or other documentation (with a summary for ease of analysis) regarding historic patterns of adjudication of adjustment of status cases, including a breakout for adjustment of status cases based on employment-based immigrant petitions, on a monthly basis for the past three years.13. Any and all records, analyses, spreadsheets, related e-mails, memoranda, correspondence or other documentation evaluating the potential financial effects to DHS (or any component thereof, including, but not limited to USCIS) if adjustment of status cases eligible for filing under the initial July 2007 Visa Bulletin were filed before, on or after July 30, 2007.Thank you for your immediate consideration of this very important matter.Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenChairwomanSubcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship,Refugees, Border Security & International Law cc: Secretary Condoleezza Rice, U.S. Department of State Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
07.03.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the State Department’s update of the July Visa Bulletin and the subsequent rejection of applications for adjustment of status by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).I’m deeply concerned by today’s updating of the July Visa Bulletin by the Departments of State and Homeland Security. By taking this unprecedented mid-month update, the Departments of State and Homeland Security have seriously undermined the stability and predictability of U.S. immigration law. Thousands of individuals and businesses rely on the monthly bulletins to prepare and plan for the submission of applications. In addition, thousands of dollars in legal fees and other application related expenses are incurred in preparation for filing applications based on the these monthly bulletins. This update sets a terrible precedent, and undermines our nation’s efforts to foster legal and orderly immigration. Rep. Lofgren recently sent Secretaries Rice and Chertoff letters asking them to reconsider any mid-month updates of the July Visa Bulletin. The complete text of both letters is below: Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: I am writing with regard to a time sensitive matter. It has been brought to my attention that you are considering the rejection of adjustment of status applications for several employment-based immigration preference categories, despite the fact that the published July Visa Bulletin shows that visas for these categories are available. I am concerned that such action may violate the law and could threaten the integrity of our immigration system. In addition, such an act may cause the Department of Homeland Security to incur substantial litigation costs. As you know, pursuant to your own regulations, “[i]f the applicant [for adjustment of status] is a preference alien, the current Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs Visa Bulletin will be consulted to determine whether an immigrant visa is immediately available.” 8 CFR 245.1(g). Thus, when the Visa Bulletin shows that visas for most preference categories are available for applicants with priority dates on or before the listed priority date, your Department must accept those adjustment of status applications for adjudication. I understand that you are considering the return of applications for adjustment of status as early as today despite the fact that the published July Visa Bulletin would allow for their acceptance. As you may know, thousands of businesses have acted in reliance upon the July Visa Bulletin and 8 CFR 245.1(g), just as they have done in previous months for several years now. I have been told that many U.S. businesses have taken the necessary steps to prepare and file applications for adjustment of status, including thousands of dollars of expenses to engage counsel, flights for employees to quickly obtain necessary documents and medical exams for the applications, cancellation of business and holiday travel, changes in family plans to ensure families are in the proper location, etc. Moreover, some have already submitted such applications for receipt today, July 2, 2007, in reliance upon the law and precedent. Changing course now could result in the loss of thousands of dollars already expended by businesses and individuals, and more importantly, threaten the integrity and predictability of our immigration system. Moreover, I am very concerned that you may choose to reject adjustment of status applications while the Visa Bulletin shows that immigrant visas are available. Such an action may spawn litigation that I understand many are considering and preparing to undertake. As you know, I have raised concern over the recent decision to raise immigration application fees by, on average, over 80%. One of the justifications provided for such a large increase was litigation costs. While some costs of litigation are certainly justified in defense of the Government, I would have serious concern over litigation to defend the Department of Homeland Security from a decision to reject applications of adjustment of status in light of the existing regulations and the July Visa Bulletin showing most employment-based visas as available. Before you take any action to reject adjustment of status applications, I would greatly appreciate a timely response to this letter and a meeting to discuss the matter. In your response, I would like an explanation of the reasons you are considering for taking action contrary to 8 CFR 245.1(g), years of precedent, and the potential for litigation which could cost the Department a substantial amount it cannot spare for litigation at this time. Thank you for your timely consideration of this very important matter. Sincerely, Zoe LofgrenChairwomanSubcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, & International Law The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretaryU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20451 Dear Secretary Rice: I am writing with regard to a time sensitive matter. It has been brought to my attention that the Department of State may revise its July Visa Bulletin published on June 13, 2007, to reflect a retrogression or unavailability of immigrant visas in several employment-based immigration categories. I am concerned about the effect such unprecedented action will have on the predictability and reliability of our legal immigration system and on those who rely upon it. As you know, pursuant to your authority to control the numerical limitations of visas as described in 22 CFR 42.51, each month your Department issues a Visa Bulletin that is consulted by hundreds of thousands of U.S. businesses seeking immigrant visas to determine whether an immigrant visa is immediately available for their employees. On June 13, your Department announced in its Visa Bulletin for July 2007 that all employment-based categories (except for the “Other Workers” category) for immigrant visas will be “current,” meaning that U.S. businesses going through the lengthy and backlogged immigrant visa or "green card" process can, throughout July, file adjustment of status applications. Your regulations at 22 CFR 42.51 allow them to rely on and use such information. Historically, they have relied on such information knowing that when they prepare and file such applications, they will be accepted and adjudicated. I have been told, however, that your Department is seriously considering a revision of the July Bulletin as early as today or tomorrow that would retrogress the visas available in various employment categories. This unprecedented action would result in the termination of thousands of applications by U.S. businesses who have prepared and are ready to file applications on behalf of their employees pursuant to the June 13th publication of your Department’s July Visa Bulletin. It is my understanding that such a revision, coming in the same month in which the bulletin is issued, would be contrary to years of practice in which revisions or adjustments to the availability of immigrant visa numbers are made in the following month of before the beginning of the month, not in the same month individuals and businesses have begun preparing and submitting applications for adjustment of status. I am concerned that the extraordinary action of revising a bulletin mid-month may be taken without serious consideration of the effect on precedence, stability in immigration law, and predictability for those who rely upon the Visa Bulletin. Furthermore, it is my understanding that thousands of businesses have acted in reliance upon the July Visa Bulletin, just as they have done with previous Bulletins. I have been told that, based upon the July Visa Bulletin, many businesses have taken the necessary steps to prepare for the submission of applications for adjustment of status, including thousands of dollars of legal expenses, flights for employees to quickly obtain necessary documents and medical exams for the applications, cancellation of business and holiday travel, changes in family plans to ensure families are in the proper location, etc. Before any decision is made to revise the July Visa Bulletin, I would greatly appreciate a timely response to this letter and a meeting to discuss the matter. In your response, I would like an explanation of the reason you chose to issue a visa bulletin listing most employment-based immigrant visas as current, when just a few weeks later‹after thousands of employers and employees have acted in reliance upon the bulletin, but before applications could be submitted based upon the bulletin‹you are now considering a change of course. I would also appreciate an explanation of whether and in what ways you have considered the serious ramifications of such action upon the integrity, stability, and predictability of our immigration law. Thank you for your timely consideration of this very important matter. Sincerely, Zoe LofgrenChairwomanSubcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, & International Law
06.28.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to United States Senate’s failure to reach a compromise on comprehensive immigration reform. The Senate voted for the status quo, and its inability to move forward on comprehensive immigration reform effectively ends comprehensive immigration reform efforts in the 110th Congress. The House now needs to take stock of the situation to determine whether anything can be done to improve the current unsatisfactory system. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.21.2007	Calls for Removal of Permanent Normal Trade RelationsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced a resolution, H.RES. 506, calling for Vietnam’s re-designation as a Country of Particular Concern and for the removal of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) if Vietnam does not immediately and significantly improve its human rights record. Since Vietnam was removed as a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) and was extended permanent normal trade relations in 2006, it has continued a brutal crackdown on peaceful human rights activists. The series of arrests made by the Vietnamese government includes Father Nguyen Van Ly, Nguyen Van Dai, Le Thi Cong Nhan, and other political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. “The United States must use its full range of diplomatic and economic tools to pressure Vietnam into complying with the international standards it has already agreed to,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The Vietnamese government must be held accountable for its brutal repression of its own people. Vietnam’s own constitution states that, ¥the citizen shall enjoy freedom of opinion and speech, freedom of the press, the right to be informed and the right to assemble, form associations and hold demonstrations in accordance with the provisions of the law.’ The U.S.’s desire to foster international trade should not override our national conscience. Vietnam’s abysmal human rights record cannot be ignored.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California
06.08.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to United States Senate failure to reach a compromise on comprehensive immigration reform. The Senate's failure to find a compromise on comprehensive immigration reform is disappointing. Surely the answer to the many challenges America faces with immigration is not inaction. We all agree the status quo is not acceptable. I am, however, heartened by statements from both the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders that discussions will continue and that compromise reform may yet be enacted. The House remains ready to act on comprehensive immigration reform if the Senate is able to find a compromise and pass a bill. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
06.07.2007	Bill Would Expand Number of Stem Cell Lines Eligible for Federal FundsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of S. 5, the bipartisan Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. This bill expands the number of embryonic stem cell lines eligible to be used for federally-funded research and only authorizes funding for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. The bill authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support research involving embryonic stem cells meeting certain criteria, regardless of the date on which the stem cells were derived from an embryo. Current policy limits the use of federal funds for research only to those stem cell lines that existed when President Bush issued an executive order on August 9, 2001. “This bill will open up countless new avenues for research into cures for some of the most debilitating diseases,” commented Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “It’s important to note that this legislation only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. This measure balances ethical concerns with the needs of our medical and scientific communities. I applaud my colleagues for supporting this bill.” The bill is supported by more than 500 organizations, including the American Medical Association, AARP, Association of American Medical Colleges, Research!America, Parkinson’s Action Network, American Diabetes Association, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, and Paralyzed Veterans of America. Faith-based groups supporting the bill include the Episcopal Church, United Church of Christ, Disciples Justice Action Network, and B’nai B’rith International. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.30.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services announcement on fees. "While a few positive changes have been made to the proposed fees, in some cases they are still quite high for less than excellent service. In addition to concern about some of these fees, Congress needs to examine carefully the uses to which they will be put." The rule change on the fees was printed in today’s Federal Register with the new fee structure going into effect July 30, 2007. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.22.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted for H.R. 2272, Omnibus Innovation & Competitiveness bill, which forms an integral part of the new Congress’ Innovation Agenda. H.R. 2272 is made up of the following five bills: Ç H.R. 1068, Amending High-Performance Computing Act, passed by voice vote on March 12, 2007 Ç H.R. 362, 10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds Science and Math Scholarship Act, passed by a bipartisan vote of 389 to 22 on April 24, 2007 Ç H.R. 363, Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act, passed by a bipartisan vote of 380 to 45 on April 24, 2007 Ç H.R. 1867, National Science Foundation Authorization, passed by a bipartisan vote of 399 to 17 on May 2, 2007 Ç H.R. 1868, Technology Innovation Act, passed by a bipartisan vote of 385 to 23 on May 3, 2007“The Innovation Agenda will help America retain its place as the world’s leading innovator and economic engine,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “By making these investments today, we reinforce our children’s place in the global economy. Having spent most of my life working and living in Silicon Valley, I know that our continued economic success as a nation firmly rests on our ability to foster research and development efforts here and across the country. This Congress has once again demonstrated its commitment to a strong and vibrant economy for years to come by passing this bill.” H.R. 2272 is made up of five bills that have been passed by the House over the last several weeks. They are being combined into one bill to prepare for conference with the Senate, which passed an omnibus innovation and competitiveness bill (S. 761) on April 25. The legislative package authorizes a total of $23.6 billion over fiscal years 2008 — 2010, including $21 billion for research and education programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF), $2.5 billion for the research labs, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and other activities at the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST), and $96 million for early career awards and teacher professional development programs at the Department of Energy (DOE). An additional $70 million is authorized for these programs at DOE for fiscal years 2011-2012.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.22.2007	Bill Criminalizes Spyware OffensesRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) applauds her House colleagues for passing H.R. 1525, the Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2007 today. The bill addresses the most egregious activities that are conducted via spyware and makes those activities criminal offenses punishable by both imprisonment and fines.“I am pleased that my first stand-alone bill to pass this Congress is one that both protects Americans on the internet and fosters continued technological innovation,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. HR 1525 is a bipartisan measure that identifies the truly unscrupulous acts associated with spyware and subjects them to criminal punishment. This bill is the right approach because it focuses on behavior, not technology. It targets the worst forms of spyware without unduly burdening technological innovation. HR 1525 avoids these pitfalls by targeting illegal conduct and providing a rigorous enforcement mechanism.” Recent studies estimate that 90 percent of computers in this country are infected with some form of spyware and Americans spend $2.6 billion trying to block or remove malicious software from their computers. That figure says nothing about the lost productivity that results from stolen data and hijacked browsers. At the same time, the technology behind spyware has aspects similar to the technology responsible for the intuitive, seamless interaction with the web that consumers expect and demand. In an age of personalized search pages and RSS feeds, the right approach to spyware must eliminate criminal behavior without criminalizing technology. The I-SPY Prevention Act takes that approach, giving law enforcement the tools it needs to fight spyware while permitting legitimate use of technology that enhances users' experience on the internet. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.17.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to news that the United States Senate reached a bipartisan compromise agreement on comprehensive immigration reform. “I applaud the hard work that the Senate has invested in crafting their bipartisan immigration deal. I look forward to examining the Senate deal in greater detail and to the coming debate on the Senate floor. The American people want Congress to act. I look forward to legislative action in the House that ensures that our borders are secure, that our laws are enforced, that promotes family values with family unification, that regularizes the status of those that currently live in the shadows, and provides for the legitimate needs of our economy.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.15.2007	Bill Would Allow for the Hiring of 50,000 Additional Police OfficersRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 1700, the COPS Reauthorization Act. The bill will allow local law enforcement agencies to hire an additional 50,000 police officers over the next six years by authorizing $600 million a year for COPS hiring grants. The bill also authorizes $350 million a year for COPS technology grants, and $200 million a year for hiring community prosecutors. “This reauthorization reverses the short-sighted funding cuts of previous Republican-led Congresses,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “A recent study by the Police Executive Research Forum found that violent crimes rose by double digit percentages over the last two years. This rise in crime rates corresponds to cuts in the COPS program. This new Congress realizes the importance of federal funds in supporting state and local law enforcement. This bill will once again give our state and local law enforcement agencies the tools and resources they need to protect our communities. By restarting the COPS program, this Congress has once again demonstrated its commitment to programs that help all Americans.” The legislation has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities.Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.10.2007	"Time to Cancel The Blank Check"Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted for H.R. 2237, which would require the Secretary of Defense to begin the redeployment of members of the Armed Forces and contractors operating in Iraq within 90 days. The bill would further require that the redeployment be completed within 180 days from the date it began, or within 270 days of the enactment of the legislation. The bill also contains language that:Would expressly prohibit the use of any funds appropriated to the Department of Defense to increase the number of Armed Forces personnel serving in Iraq in excess of the number serving as of January 1, 2007.Would leave the decision on the locations outside Iraq to which the U.S. troops should be redeployed to the commanders in the field.Would permit the continuing deployment in Iraq of Armed Forces personnel for limited purposes, including protection of the U.S. Embassy, U.S. diplomatic missions, and U.S. citizens in Iraq, engaging in targeted special operations limited to the pursuit of members of al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations with global reach, and training and equipping the Iraqi Security Forces.Would prohibit any permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq.Would allow the continued funding of training for Iraqi Security Forces, support multinational forces engaged in security and stabilization efforts, provide for diplomatic, social and economic reconstruction activities in Iraq, and make asylum and other means of protection available to Iraqi citizens endangered by the redeployment. “It is time we cancel the President’s blank check,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Our armed forces have served bravely and honorably, and too many have sacrificed their lives doing so. The failure in Iraq is not a failure of these fighting men and women. It is a failure of command, a failure of political leadership, and a failure of the administration. The challenges faced in Iraq cannot be solved militarily, no matter how brave our soldiers are. Even the generals tell us that a political and diplomatic solution is necessary. The American people, and this Congress, have had enough. It is time to remove our troops from the middle of this sectarian civil war. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.09.2007	Bill Requires Individual States to Establish Independent Redistricting CommissionsRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced the Redistricting Reform Act of 2007, which limits redistricting to once every ten years and require all states to establish independent redistricting commissions. The bill would end the current state-by-state piecemeal approach to redistricting by establishing a national standard governing the creation and operation of independent bipartisan redistricting commissions. The bill also includes language reinforcing the requirements of the Voting Rights Act and creates streamlined judicial procedures for resolving all cases challenging redistricting plans.The bill is cosponsored by 22 members of congress, including Reps: Jim Costa (D-CA); Bob Filner (D-CA); Tom Lantos (D-CA); Betty McCollum (D-MN); Jerry McNerney (D-CA); George Miller (D-CA); Hilda Solis (D-CA); Ellen Tauscher (D-CA); and, Henry Waxman (D-CA). The Redistricting Reform Act of 2007 would establish independent bipartisan redistricting commissions in every state by mandating that:Each party's representatives on the commission are chosen by members of the opposing party. Commissions must also include members who are not affiliated with either major party. Commission members may not hold elected office and are prohibited from doing so until the next redistricting.Redistricting commissions must conduct public meetings and solicit public comment for consideration. “The Redistricting Reform Act of 2007 will help ensure that a consistent system in every state is used for redistricting,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “An ad-hoc state by state approach rewards those that have used, and will continue to use, redistricting as a partisan political tool. By requiring nationwide independent commissions, we level the playing field for all, regardless of political party. A comprehensive redistricting commission approach will promote an open, fair, and depoliticized process.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.03.2007	Washington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 1592, Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, which broadens federal coverage of hate crimes. The bill also provides assistance to local law enforcement with expenses related to hate crime cases, and would require that the FBI collect statistics on gender- and gender identity-related bias crimes, as well as juvenile victims and offenders. “All Americans, regardless of their color or sexual orientation, deserve equal protection under the law,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “This bill will help ensure that local law enforcement agencies have the necessary resources and support to properly pursue hate crimes investigations. The bill covers acts of violence against ALL victims of hate crimes - all races, all religions, genders. This bill does not discriminate. I’m proud to have voted for, and co-sponsored, this bill.” H.R. 1592 is supported by more than 210 civil rights, education, religious, and civic organizations. Major law enforcement organizations have also endorsed the bill, including the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Sheriffs Association, and the Police Executive Research Forum, as well as 31 State Attorneys General. ###Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County . She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the House of Representatives from California .
05.02.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of passing H.R. 243, calling on the government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to immediately and unconditionally release Father Nguyen Van Ly, Nguyen Van Dai, Le Thi Cong Nhan, and other political prisoners and prisoners of conscience.“I am deeply concerned about the government of Vietnam’s human rights record and its detention of political prisoners,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition advocating freedom and human rights throughout the world. We should make no exception for Vietnam. Today I joined with my colleagues in Congress in sending a strong message to the Vietnamese government. The Vietnamese Government will be held accountable for its actions.”In the last two months, Rep. Lofgren has twice written letters to Secretary of State Rice outlining her concerns with Vietnam’s human rights record and calling for Vietnam’s return to the State Department’s list of Countries of Particular Concern (CPC).Both letters are available at: http://www.house.gov/lofgren/ Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
05.02.2007	Bill Passes Full Judiciary Committee with Unanimous VoteWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) applauds her colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for unanimously passing H.R. 1525, the Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2007 today. The bill, which now moves to the full House of Representatives, addresses the most egregious activities that are conducted via spyware and makes those activities criminal offenses punishable by both imprisonment and fines. “I’m glad that my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee unanimously voted in favor of moving the bill forward,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Spyware is a problem for computer users. This committee has just demonstrated its willingness to address this problem in approving this bill. The technology behind spyware has aspects similar to the technology responsible for the intuitive, seamless interaction with the web that consumers expect and demand. This bill focuses on behavior, and does not criminalize technology. That’s why it has such broad support among tech-savvy Americans.” # # # Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County . She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the House of Representatives from California .
05.02.2007	Washington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections, today sent a letter to Election Assistance Commission (EAC) Chair Donetta Davidson clarifying her previous request for information regarding the creation and publication of the commission’s reports. The complete text of the letter is below as are links to the remaining letters. The Honorable Donetta DavidsonChairElection Assistance Commission1225 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 1100 Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Chair Davidson: I have received your letter of April 30 responding to my request for documents relating to actions of the Election Assistance Commission. First, I have to say that I was rather startled by the assertion that you had not received my request before April 27, as it was both faxed and e-mailed to your offices on April 23. Considering your own reliance on fax transmission alone to convey your April 30 letter, I have to recommend that you replace your support staff if they failed to give you my Monday transmission before Friday. Apart from these details of communication, I am writing to restate the subcommittee’s desire to review the EAC documents outlined in my letter. The pendency of the Inspector General’s review does not deter our interest. If, in fact, you are collecting the same materials to provide to the Inspector General, then it should simplify your document collection efforts for the subcommittee.You expressed some confusion regarding the subcommittee’s request for materials related to application of administrative law to the EAC’s activities. We are seeking materials within the Commission’s files, whether produced by the Commission or by others, that relate to the application of federal administrative laws to the Commission’s proceedings generally, or to the Commission’s action on these two specific projects. These materials will assist us in reviewing the Commission’s understanding of its obligations under these laws.I enclose another copy of my April 23 letter. Please provide copies of the materials requested therein to the subcommittee offices at 1309 Longworth House Office Building by close of business on Wednesday, May 9. Of course, since the Inspector General’s report has not yet been completed, we will not expect to receive that yet, but we do ask that you forward it promptly upon its completion. If we do not receive the remaining materials by May 9, or some reasonable explanation of the delay and proposed schedule for transmission, I will be forced to seek subpoena authority from the full Committee. Sincerely, Zoe LofgrenChair # # # Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County . She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the House of Representatives from California .
05.02.2007	Bill Reauthorizes Head Start Program till 2012 Washington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted in favor of H.R. 1429, Improving Head Start Act of 2007. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes and improves the Head Start program through FY 2012. The bill authorizes $450 million in new funding for Head Start in FY 2008, which would provide up to 10,000 more children access to the program, prioritizing expansion of the Early Head Start program. The bill also requires that all Head Start programs use research-based practices to support the growth of children’s pre-literacy and vocabulary skills. Finally, the bill improves classroom and teacher quality, raising the qualifications of teachers and increasing funding for teacher and staff salaries and professional development. “I’m proud to have voted for this bill,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “I can think of few things more important than guaranteeing children a first class education. The Head Start Program is an integral part of early childhood development and a top priority of this Democratic-led Congress. Research shows that students who participate in Head Start are less likely to need special education services, repeat a grade, or commit crimes in adolescence. They are also more likely to graduate from high school. This bill will help set children on the path to future success.” ###Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County . She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the House of Representatives from California .
05.01.2007	Questions Report ProceduresWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chairwoman of the House Administration’s Subcommittee on Elections, today issued the following statement in response to continuing allegations that the Elections Assistance Commission (EAC) has politicized their report creation process. “I’m troubled by a recent letter from Tova Wang, an independent researcher hired by the EAC, which claims the EAC issued a gag order barring her from speaking about her research. This appears to be yet another step in a calculated and deliberate effort to block, edit, hide, and otherwise bury reports whose findings challenge certain political assertions. Partisan politics have absolutely no place in the administration of ’s elections. By interjecting their political agenda into the EAC, the administration is subverting the very cornerstone of American democracy, that every vote is fairly counted. Once again we are faced with a group of Republican political appointees running amuck in the federal government. It is quite clear that Bush appointees continue to place partisan politics above the work of the American people.” # # # Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County . She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the House of Representatives from California .
04.25.2007	House Authorizes $359 Million for Silicon Valley ProjectsMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Mike Honda (CA-15) have secured the authorization of $359 million for local water development projects in H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 394 to 25, also addresses issues relating to the Army Corps of Engineers’ missions and responsibilities. “These projects are essential to the safety and prosperity of Silicon Valley’s residents,” stated Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The funding authorized in this bill is an investment in the future of one of our nation’s most economically important areas. This bill also demonstrates the new Congress’s commitment to our nation’s water infrastructure needs. We cannot allow our nation’s basic infrastructure needs to be ignored.” “This bill authorizes funding for critical Silicon Valley flood control programs, environmental protection initiatives, and water supply reliability projects,” said Rep. Mike Honda (CA — 15). “It is my duty to ensure the safety and security of area residents and businesses. I believe that these measures will go a long way to achieving this goal.” The funding authorized for San Jose area projects includes: Upper Guadalupe River: Authorizes $244.5 million for protecting commercial and residential interests in downtown San Jose and improving the quality of the Guadalupe River. Llagas Creek: Authorizes $105 million for flood protection improvements that will protect 1,100 homes, 500 business, and over 1,300 acres of agricultural land. South San Francisco Bay Shoreline Study: This project will restore up to 25 square miles of habitat and provide flood protection to businesses in low-lying areas. Santa Clara County Advanced Recycled Water Treatment Plant: Authorizes $5.5 million which will help provide a reliable, constant supply of high quality recycled water for industry and irrigation to support sustainable, urban water use and protect Silicon Valley’s economy. San Francisco Bay/Santa Clara Desalination Project: Authorizes $4 million for increasing water supplies in the greater San Francisco Bay Area. In addition the bill authorizes 51 projects relating to flood damage reduction, navigation, hurricane and storm damage reduction, and environmental restoration, including the navigation and ecosystem restoration project for the Upper Mississippi River and Illinois Waterway system, an Everglades restoration project, and the program for protecting, conserving, and restoring the Louisiana Coastal area.
04.24.2007	Agenda Aims to Keep America Competitive in Global MarketMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today joined with colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in announcing an updated Innovation Agenda for the 110th Congress. The Innovation Agenda signals a renewed commitment to keeping America competitive in an expanding global market. It focuses on several key areas, including:Ensuring highly qualified math, science, and technology K-12 teachers by offering upfront tuition assistance to talented undergraduates who agree to teach in high needs schools. Enacting comprehensive immigration reform so that the most highly skilled workers from around the world are able to contribute to American innovation. Strengthening the patent system and ending the diversion of patent fees in order to spur research and development. Expanding broadband service to rural areas and funding the development of community networking centers in underserved communities. Expanding the production and distribution of clean, domestically produced fuels in order to reduce our dependency on foreign oil. Helping small businesses raise capital for research and development. “Our future success demands that we make the necessary investments today,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “America holds its preeminent position in the world because countless generations before us saw the need to invest in the future. We must do the same. To hold our position in the world we must invest in education, innovation, and economic growth. The Innovation Agenda is exactly this kind of investment. It will create a new generation of innovators, set us on the path to energy independence, strengthen our national security, and spur growth in our economy.”
04.19.2007	Bill Provides Much Needed Reform for Patent Seekers and Patent HoldersMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan Patent Reform Act of 2007 which modernizes patent law. The bill, which was introduced yesterday by Rep. Howard Berman (D-Calif.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee, updates existing patent law to ensure that America remains at the forefront of global research and development efforts. In addition to other needed reforms, the bill allows third parties to submit prior art during the patent examination process, thus ensuring higher quality patents. It also improves the process for verifying the validity and enforceability of patents. “America powers the global economy because of its continued dedication to, and investment in, research and development,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “As a life long resident of Silicon Valley, I am uniquely aware of the immense importance that our patent system plays in research and development efforts. Without a modernized, fair, and competitive patent system we risk abdicating our role as the global leader in innovation. This bill will help secure our preeminence in research and development.”
04.18.2007	Calls for National Commissions and Minimum StandardsMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today issued the following statement in response to the recent redistricting proposals. “I support the creation of independent, bi-partisan commissions in every state to oversee the drawing of all Congressional districts after each decennial census. Last Congress I introduced legislation to do just that. Redistricting reform should not be undertaken in a state-by-state piecemeal or ad-hoc fashion. A state-by-state approach rewards those that have used, and will continue to use, redistricting as a partisan political tool. Instead, a uniform redistricting standard for all states levels the playing field for all states regardless of which political party may control a state’s legislature. In California, we must also remember that our voters have already spoken out against piecemeal redistricting numerous times. By forcing California’s voters to accept a piecemeal plan, we risk diluting their representational strength in Congress and may strengthen the hand of those who do not have California’s interests at heart.”
04.18.2007	Hearing to Review Transparency of Report ProcessMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chairwoman of the House Administration’s Subcommittee on Elections, is announcing the Subcommittee will conduct an Election Assistance Commission (EAC) oversight hearing to review concerns over recent reports issued by the EAC. The EAC, which was created by the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA), serves as a national clearinghouse and resource for information, review, and procedures for the administration of Federal elections. As part of that role, the EAC is tasked with researching and reporting on matters that affect the administration of federal elections. “As Chair of House Administration’s Subcommittee on Elections, which has oversight over the Election Assistance Commission, I am alarmed at what appears to be an emerging pattern by the EAC to hold off on publicly releasing reports as well as modifying reports that are released,” stated Rep. Lofgren. “The EAC is charged with conducting nonpartisan research and to advise policy makers. I am concerned that the election process is being threatened by a lack of transparency and limited discussion. Therefore, I plan on holding an oversight hearing of the EAC to closely examine these issues. Partisan politics has no place in the administration of America’s elections.”
04.09.2007	Letter to Secretary of State Rice Notes Concerns on Human RightsMedia Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.gov Washington, DC — Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) has called on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to list Vietnam as one of the State Department’s Countries of Particular Concern (CPC). In a letter to Secretary Rice, Rep. Lofgren outlined her concern that Vietnam’s record on religious freedom, free speech, and other basic human rights has only worsened since receiving Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status with the United States.The complete text of the letter is below:The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretaryDepartment of State2201 C Street NWWashington, DC 20520Dear Madam Secretary,I strongly urge you to reconsider placing Vietnam on the State Department’s Countries of Particular Concern (CPC) list for its severe violations of religious freedom, free speech, and other basic human rights. As you are aware, in 2004, Vietnam was first added to the annual CPC designation because of government repression towards many religious believers. The campaigns to force people to renounce their faith, the detainment of dozens of religious prisoners, and the harassment as well as physical mistreatment of some believers amounted to inexcusable human rights violations. In their efforts to gain Permanent Normal Trade Relations with the U.S. in 2006, Vietnam embarked on a disingenuous public relations campaign to cleanse its image as a human rights violator. Consequently, Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom John V. Hanford III kept Vietnam off the CPC list and announced that the Government of Vietnam had made significant improvements towards advancing religious freedom. I think it is obvious that the conditions of religious freedom in Vietnam have not improved but have worsened severely. Ambassador Hanford III cites in his November 13, 2006 briefing that Catholics now have the freedom in Vietnam to train and ordain new priests to serve their congregations. However, recent incidents demonstrate otherwise. For example, the Vietnamese government removed Father Nguyen Van Ly from his parish and sentenced him to 8 years in prison for allegedly conducting propaganda activities to harm the security of the state. Further, Vietnam continues to assert the right to approve of bishops' nominations before they are announced by the Vatican. The Ambassador also mentioned that Vietnam has laws against forced renunciations and that reports of this disturbing practice are now very isolated. This is simply untrue, as the government continues to harass, arrest, and impose restrictions on organized religious followers such as Catholics and Buddhists, and to view minority religious groups with broad suspicion. The reasons Ambassador Hanford III presented for not re-designating Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern have all been contradicted by these recent events. Father Nguyen Van Ly is the highest profile dissident currently in prison, but many other human rights and religious freedom proponents have been imprisoned in Vietnam and subjected to government harassment. For example, Vietnamese police, on March 6, 2007, arrested a pair of human-rights lawyers, Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, for organizing training sessions for political activists in the capital. There are hundreds of other dissidents whom have been imprisoned simply for expressing speech and attempting the practice of their faith freely and openly. I appreciate that you brought up human rights concerns with Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan and Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem during their March 2007 visit to the United States. However, I believe this is not sufficient. The recent actions by Vietnam should be a warning sign that the government will only continue to deny basic human rights and religious freedoms to its people. The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of advocating for religious freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. Exceptions should not be made for Vietnam. In light of these and other human rights violations by Vietnam, I urge you to re-designate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern. Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenMember of Congress# # #Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her seventh term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. She also Chairs the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 34 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
03.29.2007	Rep. Lofgren Stresses Support for Moving ForwardToday, the Committee on House Administration met regarding H.R. 811, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act of 2007. Elections Subcommittee Chair Lofgren issued the following statement in support of the bill:Due to Chairwoman Millender-McDonald’s absence we have temporarily delayed action today on this important bipartisan measure. However, the committee will move this piece of widely supported legislation forward in a timely manner. We are working with stake holders to address any possible questions they may have, and I believe that any issues will be addressed as the bill moves through the committee process. I want to ensure that what we produce in the end is a common sense approach which earns voter confidence and makes for a transparent, reliable, and accurate system for casting and counting ballots.
03.29.2007	Bill Would Reward Hard Work and Foster Educational OpportunitiesRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) signed on as co-sponsor of the bipartisan American Dream Act (H.R.1275), introduced by Reps. Howard Berman (D-CA) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and co-sponsored by Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL). The bill would provide a path to legal immigration status for college-bound children who have lived most of their lives in this country, but do not have legal immigration status. Under the American Dream Act, qualified students would be eligible for temporary legal immigration status upon high school graduation that would lead to permanent legal residency if they go to college or serve in the military. “As a nation, we are faced with ever increasing economic competition from developing nations,” said Rep. Lofgren. “To effectively compete in an ever expanding global market, we must ensure that we continue to have the most educated workforce in the world. Whether in college or in the military, we must give all qualified young people the education that will keep America strong.”“We should not penalize innocent children for the actions of their parents,” continued Rep. Lofgren. “Fairness and justice have always been hallmarks of our great nation. Many of these young people have no memory of their birth nations, many speak only English. It is right to give them the opportunity to work toward legal status. These determined and dedicated young people need the chance to become productive members of our society.”
03.27.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) released the following statement today in response to the introduction of the STRIVE Act of 2007. “I applaud Reps. Gutierrez and Flake for their efforts to address our nation’s need for comprehensive immigration reform. As chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, I welcome the input of all my Congressional colleagues and look forward to hearing all of their concerns. For reform on this scale to be effective, it must be bipartisan and built on common ground. As the subcommittee moves forward with comprehensive reform, we will review all relevant legislation in our efforts to build a system that is balanced, enforceable, and fair. I’m honored to have been selected to lead this effort, and I believe that we can build a system that the American people can be proud of," said Rep. Lofgren.Media Contact: Pedro Ribeiro, 202.225.3072, Pedro.Ribeiro@mail.house.gov
03.15.2007	Bill Would Criminalize Spyware OffensesRepresentatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), yesterday introduced H.R. 1525, the Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2007, which will help Americans combat spyware and phishing scams. The bill was introduced in both the 108th and 109th Congresses, where it passed in the House, but the Senate failed to act on the legislation. This legislation addresses the most egregious activities that are conducted via spyware and makes those activities criminal offenses punishable by both imprisonment and fines.“The Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2007 protecting Americans from internet crime while not impinging on software development,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Spyware has become a plague for computer users, and Congress must address the mounting negative impact that it is having on our economy. Americans should not be afraid to use the internet, it is an amazing resource that has fostered an epic change in the way people all over the world go about their lives. This bill will help ensure that the internet remains a place where people from all corners of the world can gather to share their ideas freely, efficiently, and safely.” “I believe that four overarching principles should guide the development of any spyware legislation,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “First, we must punish the bad actors, while protecting legitimate online companies. Second, we must not over-regulate, but rather encourage innovative new services and the growth of the Internet. Third, we must not stifle the free market. Fourth, we must target the behavior, not the technology. The I-SPY Prevention Act is a targeted approach that protects consumers by imposing stiff penalties on the truly bad actors, while protecting the ability of legitimate companies to develop new and exciting products and services online for consumers.” Recent studies estimate that 90 percent of computers in this country are infected with some form of spyware. Moreover, Americans are spending $2.6 billion trying to block or remove malicious software from their computers. That figure says nothing about the lost productivity that results from stolen data and hijacked browsers. At the same time, the technology behind spyware has aspects similar to the technology responsible for the intuitive, seamless interaction with the web that consumers expect and demand. In an age of personalized search pages and RSS feeds, the right approach to spyware must eliminate criminal behavior without criminalizing technology. The I-SPY Prevention Act takes that approach, giving law enforcement the tools it needs to fight spyware while permitting legitimate use of technology that enhances users' experience on the internet.
03.14.2007	Bills Would Protect Whistleblowers and Enhance OversightRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) voted today on several bills that restore accountability, oversight, and transparency to the way the federal government operates. The House considered H.R. 985, the Whistleblower Protection Act as well as H.R. 1309, the Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 2007; H.R. 1255, the Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2007; and, H.R. 1254, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2007. These measures will help ensure that the American people have access to the information they need to restore their trust in government. ˆ H.R. 985, The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007: Strengthens protections for federal whistleblowers to prevent retaliation against those who report federal waste, fraud, and abuse to authorities. Specifically, the measure gives whistleblower protection to federal workers specializing in national security issues, and improves protection for employees of federal contractors who report on waste fraud and abuses of taxpayers dollars. It also protects employees who report on the federal government manipulating science. ˆ H.R. 1255, The Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2007: Restores public access to former president’s official papers, nullifying a 2001 presidential executive order that gave current and former Presidents (and their heirs) and as well as former vice presidents broad authority to withhold presidential documents or delay their release indefinitely.ˆ H.R. 1309, The Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 2007: Provides for more timely disclosure of government documents through a variety of reforms to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).ˆ H.R. 1254, The Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2007: Requires the disclosure of donors who contribute more than $200 to presidential libraries during a president’s term and for the four years after the President’s term ends.“This Congress has once again demonstrated its commitment to cleaning up the culture of corruption that festered in Republican controlled Washington,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “In the short time that Democrats have controlled the House, we have passed legislation to contain earmarks, ensure fiscal responsibility, protect whistleblowers, reform cumbersome FOIA procedures, increase public access to Presidential records, and reduce waste in government contracting. The American people have spoken, and we heard them loud and clear that they want clean, effective, and transparent government. I support all these measure because they are the will of the American people.”
03.12.2007	Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan and Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem to Visit United StatesWashington, DC — Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) has called on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to insist that Vietnam make significant improvements in the protection of religious freedom, free speech, and other basic human rights. In a recent letter to Secretary of State Rice, Rep. Lofgren asked that the Secretary directly address these concerns with Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan and Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem on their March 15, 2007 meeting in Washington, DC. Additional signatories to the letter include: Vietnam Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Tom Davis, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, and Rep. Chris Smith; and, Rep. Jeff Fortenberry. The complete text of the letter is below:March 12, 2007The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretaryU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20520Dear Madam Secretary:We write to express our strong concerns about the recent escalation of human rights violations occurring in Vietnam. We respectfully request that you use the upcoming visit by Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan and Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem to insist that Vietnam make substantive improvements in the protection of religious freedom, free speech, and other basic human rights. There recently have been a number of arrests and harassment by Vietnamese authorities regarding religious and political practices. This week Vietnamese human rights attorney Nguyen Van Dai, a founder of the Committee for Human Rights in Vietnam, was arrested for what authorities called, “conducting propaganda activities to harm the security of state.” These same charges were used to remove Father Nguyen Van Ly earlier this year from his Catholic parish. These accounts magnify Vietnam’s continued oppression of religious and political speech. The situation in Vietnam can best be described in the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom’s 2006 Annual Report, which states:The government of Vietnam continues to commit systematic and egregious violations of religious freedom by harassing, detaining, imprisoning, and discriminating against leaders and practitioners from all of Vietnam's religious communities. Religious freedom conditions in Vietnam remain poor, and the overall human rights situation has deteriorated in the past two years. The government has targeted popular religious leaders, intellectuals, free speech and democracy advocates, and members of ethnic and religious minority groups, who are accused of encouraging "peaceful evolution," a term used to describe anyone suspected of quietly eroding the Communist Party's legitimacy.The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. No exception should be made for Vietnam. We hope that you will take this upcoming opportunity with Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Vu Khoan and Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem to address these issues and work towards improving the human rights that the Vietnamese people so rightfully deserve. Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenCo-Chair Vietnam Caucus Tom DavisCo-Chair Vietnam Caucus Loretta SanchezCo-Chair Vietnam CaucusChris SmithCo-Chair Vietnam Caucus Jeff FortenberryMember of Congress
03.09.2007	Bill Would Authorize $14 Billion Over Four YearsRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) voted today to pass H.R. 720, Reauthorizing the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. This bill authorizes $14 billion over the next four years for the fund and provides low-interest loans to local communities for construction of wastewater treatment facilities and other water pollution abatement projects. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund has been the primary source of federal funding for clean water funding since it was created in 1987.“These funds are important to state and local efforts to keep our communities supplied with clean and safe water,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “Without these federal loans many of our local water authorities in California would not have the resources necessary to ensure the continued safety of their water supplies.”In recent years, the Republican controlled Congress slashed funds for clean water needs. Republicans cut funding from $1.34 billion in FY04 to $887 million in FY06, a cut of 34 percent. The President has proposed even further cuts in his FY08 budget proposal with California standing to lose $4,842,000 in federal funds. This bill is widely supported by local and state organizations, including: the National Conference of State Legislatures; the National League of Cities; the National Association of Counties; Clean Water Action; National Association of Clean Water Agencies; and, the American Public Works Association.“I’m proud to support this bill,” continued Rep. Lofgren. “Over the years we have made significant progress in improving water quality across the country but we must continue to make improvements. Many of our cities are still plagued by antiquated water systems and face increasing environmental threats to our water supplies. Congress has taken a solid step forward in protecting our communities’ access to clean water.”
03.02.2007	Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Airline Passenger Bill of Rights Act, introduced by Rep. Mike Thompson (D- St. Helena). The bill would give passengers the right to deplane after any ground delay of 3 hours or more and would require airlines to provide passengers with adequate food, safe drinking water, sanitary facilities and a reasonable temperature while waiting on an aircraft.“Problems with delays and wait times on airlines have been in the news recently, and I have heard many complaints from air travelers in my area,” said Rep. Lofgren. “The Passenger Bill of Rights lays out specific standards that are the bare minimum of how passengers should be treated in the case of delays and cancellations. By sponsoring this bill, I hope to ensure that customers are assured at least these basic requirements when they fly.”Additional provisions in the bill would: Require airlines to frequently update passengers at the airport and aboard aircraft on the cause and timing of delays; Require airlines to disclose information on chronically delayed or cancel flights at the time of ticket purchase; Require airlines to make every effort to return checked bags to passengers within 24 hours; Require airlines to draft and prominently display a Passenger Bill of Rights; and Require airlines to make information on the lowest fares readily available to the traveling public.
02.28.2007	Receives Humane Advocate Award for Perfect Score on 2006 ScorecardMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) was honored today by the Humane Society of the United States and presented with their Humane Advocate Award for her perfect score on the 2006 Humane Scorecard today.“I am pleased to accept the Humane Advocate Award on behalf of the over 13,000 Humane Society supporters in my district,” said Rep. Lofgren. Every year the Humane Society creates a federal Humane Scorecard to give animal advocates a snapshot of the animal protection issues considered by Congress. The Humane Scorecard tracks key votes as well as co-sponsorship of important pro-animal bills. Rep. Lofgren scored 100% on the Humane Scorecards for the 109th and 108th Congress.
02.16.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) spoke on Tuesday, February 13 on the House Floor as part of the full House of Representatives debate on a Resolution supporting American troops but opposing the President’s escalation plan for the Iraq War.Below is an excerpt from Rep. Lofgren’s statement: “I rise today in strong support of this resolution that supports our troops but opposes the President’s escalation plan. My opposition to this war has been clear and consistent, beginning in October 2002 when I voted against giving the President the power to pursue a war in Iraq.“The failure in Iraq is not a failure of our fighting men and women. It is a failure of command, a failure of political leadership. We must provide our troops and their families with a new exit strategy instead of a new deployment. “We must step up our diplomatic efforts in the region, as recommended by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. America should call upon neighboring states in the Middle East to take strong measures to avoid a spread of the conflict beyond Iraq. With the help of the entire region, we can push the Iraqis to help themselves. “The American public has long been ahead of Congress in their opposition to this war. I am here tonight to tell the American people that they are being heard. I stand with the majority of Americans who say they’ve had enough. We will not give the President a blank check. We will not stand by idly while the President plans to endanger more Americans for no strategic gain. It is time we bring this war to an end.”To see a video of Rep. Lofgren’s full remarks on the House Floor, click on the picture below:
02.14.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today was named Chair of the House Administration Subcommittee on Elections for the 110th Congress. The Subcommittee will handle most federal election related issues, including matters pertaining to the Federal Election Campaign Act, the Help America Vote Act, the Federal Elections Commission (FEC), the Elections Assistance Commission (EAC), Presidential public financing. “It is critically important that our country’s voting system has integrity. We must ensure that when American citizens cast their vote, they know their vote is going to be counted and that it is going to be counted the way it was cast,” said Rep. Lofgren.This is the first time the House Administration Committee has utilized Subcommittees since the Republican majority eliminated the six House Administration Subcommittees in 1995.
02.14.2007	Questions USCIS Director on Usage of Proposed Fees and Future PlansThe House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law, chaired by Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), held an oversight hearing today on the proposed U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) immigration fee increase with testimony by USCIS Director Emilio Gonzalez. A transcript of Rep. Lofgren’s opening remarks is below: “I would like to welcome everyone to this very first hearing of the Immigration Subcommittee in the 110th Congress. I especially welcome the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, Mr. King, the members of the Subcommittee, USCIS Director Gonzalez and the members of the public and press who have joined us here today.“I appreciate that Mr. King and I share a commitment to reforming the nation’s immigration laws. Together this Subcommittee will find a new way forward on some of the most important issues of our day.“Our immigration services need to move ahead. They must transform themselves into 21st Century organizations, fully automated, paperless, able to communicate amongst themselves and able to track not only the status of the cases they process, but the entries and exits of those who come to the U.S.“Our security interests demand these things and America’s immigration services must be able to adjudicate cases in ways that ensure the safety and security of America and Americans. The immigration services must have the resources to do that. They must have the people, the technologies and the business processes to do their job.“As the 9-11 Commission indicated in its report, the services our immigration authorities provide to their customers is just as important to our security. America’s immigration authorities are in many ways, as the 9-11 Commission recognized, our face to the world. When the good people of the world try to come to America, to visit, to work, to live, our immigration authorities, by their actions or by their lack of action, make a statement about America and Americans.“Excessive delays, backlogs, arbitrary decisions, they all send negative messages. Those messages, as the 9-11 Commission recognized, can harm our national security.“As the agency charged with adjudicating applications and petitions for naturalization and immigration benefits, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service is often the first point of contact many people have with America. It is imperative that CIS provide the best possible service.“CIS, by its own admission, is not a 21st Century organization. It has not yet implemented the technologies and business processes that it requires to adjudicate its cases effectively.“Over the past several years, Congress has appropriated hundreds of millions of dollars to CIS to help reduce its backlog, fund its operations, and transform itself into a 21st Century organization. And yet, as we gather here today, the Administration has requested a precipitous drop in directly appropriated funds.“In place of those funds, CIS has proposed a significant raise in its fees—by an average of 96%. In return, CIS promises to decrease its average processing times by 20%. We need to ask whether that return on investment is sufficient.“Some of the proposed fee increases seem quite large. The fee for naturalization applications would rise by 80%. The fee for an adjustment of status applications would rise over 178%. We need to questions about the need for such large increases.“It is also important for the Subcommittee to gain an understanding of how the agency has been spending the money it has received, both from fees and from direct appropriations, over the past few years. Only by understanding how the agency has previously invested its resources, can we fairly judge the promises it makes in its proposed fee regulation.“We must get answers to questions about the agency’s future plans and we must ask that the agency provide us with its plan to transform its technology and business processes.“We must begin to explore the best means by which CIS ought to be funded. We know that the Immigration and Nationality Act permits, but does not require, the agency to fund its costs through user fees. Only by understanding the nature of the agency’s operations can we make informed judgments about the best available means to ensure the agency has the funding it needs to perform its critical mission.“I look forward to hearing from the witness, Dr. Emilio Gonzalez, Director of CIS, today and I look forward to gaining a fuller understanding of the agency’s current practices, its future plans, and how it made its decision to raise the fees.”
02.13.2007	Sends Letter Seeking Further Explanation after Hearing TestimonyRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff today seeking clarification of his testimony on the proposed U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) immigration fee increase. On Friday, Secretary Chertoff testified at a Homeland Security Committee Hearing that the proposed USCIS fees would supplement the significant cuts to USCIS funding in the President’s FY08 budget, and that without a fee increase, border security and technological upgrades at USCIS would suffer. Rep. Lofgren responded that applicants’ fees should not be used for enforcement purposes.The text of Rep. Lofgren’s letter to Sec. Chertoff is below: February 13, 2007The Honorable Michael Chertoff, SecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, D.C. 20528Dear Secretary Chertoff:In a Homeland Security Committee hearing on Friday, February 9, 2007, I questioned you regarding the budget allocation for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). In my role as the chair of the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee and a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I am concerned about your response and would like clarification. Under the President’s 2008 budget for the Department of Homeland Security Gross Discretion Budget Authority, Citizen and Immigration Services is allocated $30 million. This represents a decrease from $182 million in FY07 and $114 million in FY06. During the hearing, I asked you if you would be prepared to move towards a request for appropriation for appropriate needs if the recent proposed fee increase for immigration applications fails. You answered, “That would be a problem. My understanding is that Congress has always mandated this fee.” I would greatly appreciate clarification of your statement as Congress has simply authorized, not mandated, the collection of fees to cover the costs of immigration application processing.[i] In fact, as you know, DHS has received appropriations in the past for this program, most recently $182 million in FY07. Such appropriations belie your explanation of a mandated fee recovery.I am also concerned about your response to my question about the significant drop in funding you requested for FY08. You stated that the drop in the USCIS budget was due to the proposed fee increase of 66% for processing naturalization and immigration applications. You stated, “If the fee were blocked, then we would have a big hole in the budget. That would be a big problem for this Congress because you would have to find a significant chunk of money. Either we would have to go back to the days of backlog, or we would have to decide to hire fewer Border Patrols or have less technology.” I would appreciate a clarification of your statement. USCIS immigration application fees cannot be used for enforcement purposes.[ii] Yet you suggested that without a fee increase, USCIS may not be able to fund additional Border Patrol agents, despite the fact that Congress has been steadily funding this for the past several years without a fee increase. Please provide me with clarification on your understanding of fee collection by USCIS, why the USCIS budget was cut and for what purpose the increased fees amounts will be used. I look forward to working with you to ensure that changes in the fee structure are reasonable and that USCIS is able to adequately have its needs met under the 2008 budget.Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenMember of Congress [i] The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) provides for the collection of fees at a level that permits, but does not require, USCIS to collect fees that will ensure recovery of the full costs of providing adjudication and naturalization services, including the costs of providing similar services without charge to asylum applicants and other immigrants. INA 286(m), 8 U.S.C. 1356(m).[ii] This revenue remains available to provide immigration and naturalization benefits and the collection, safeguarding, and accounting for fees. Id. at 1356(n).
02.05.2007	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), released the following statement today regarding the President’s proposed FY08 Budget:“The President’s FY08 budget proposal is at odds with the needs and priorities of Californians.“At the same time California’s Governor and Legislature are moving towards an ambitious healthcare plan, the President proposes to freeze SCHIP funding at 2006 levels and cut billions from Medicaid and Medicare programs. President Bush’s proposed budget also would eliminate the Federal Perkins Loan program and cut nine other higher education programs, shortchanging California’s students to the tune of hundreds of million in student aid. “Finally, the President’s budget fails on a host of issues that matter to Californians, from eliminating money for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) and the Community Oriented Policing Service (COPS) program to decreasing funding levels for the CALFED, a federal-state partnership to improve water supplies in California and the health of the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta.“The California Democratic Congressional Delegation will work with Members of Congress and Speaker Pelosi to make sure that the final FY08 budget reflects the needs of our state and our country. We will hold out our hands to Republican House Members from California to get a better outcome for our state.”
01.31.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, offered the following statement today on the proposed fee increase of 66% on average for processing naturalization and immigration applications by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS):“Although I want to ensure that USCIS has the necessary resources to carry out its mission, the scope and scale of this fee increase on immigration applications raises many questions for me. I plan to carefully examine the USCIS’s new study and the justification for this increase with my colleagues on the Immigration Subcommittee before its implementation. Changes in the current fee structure must be fair and reasonable.”
01.23.2007	Lofgren Will Strive to Enact Bipartisan, Comprehensive Immigration ReformMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today was selected as Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law for the 110th Congress. “As Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee, I will work in a bipartisan manner to enact practical, lasting immigration reform that works for our country,” said Rep. Lofgren. “It is time to tailor the immigration system to the real needs and priorities of our country. We need to finally secure our borders and end illegal immigration once and for all.”Before running for elected office, Rep. Lofgren practiced immigration law in San Jose, California and taught immigration law at the Santa Clara University School of Law. Rep. Lofgren has served on the Judiciary Committee since her election to the 104th Congress and the Immigration Subcommittee since the 105th Congress
01.22.2007	Letter Signed by Chairs of Senate and House Judiciary Committees and Immigration SubcommitteesMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), incoming Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Claims, today sent a letter to the Director of the United State Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) questioning a possible fee increase of 250% for processing naturalization and immigration applications and requesting more information. She was joined on the letter by Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), incoming Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA), incoming Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security, and Citizenship, and Representative John Conyers (D-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Below is the text of the letter:January 22, 2006Dr. Emilio GonzalezDirector, USCISDepartment of Homeland Security20 Massachusetts Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20529 Dear Dr. Gonzalez:We understand that the United State Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is considering a fee increase for processing naturalization and immigration applications.As the incoming chairs of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees and the Immigration Subcommittees, we look forward to working with you to ensure that USCIS has the necessary resources to carry out its mission. However, we are concerned by reports of the scope and scale of the fee increase. For example, we understand that the fees on naturalization applications may more than double, from the current fee of $400 to between $600 and $1,000. As the Congressional committees of jurisdiction, we want to better understand the extraordinary circumstances that could justify such a massive increase.We hope that USCIS will not finalize the increase until our committees have had an opportunity to review the process by which your agency determined the need for and the scope of the fee increase. We would like to examine the cost estimates used by USCIS to establish the fees for various applications. We also wish to analyze the assumptions and methodology used by the agency to arrive at these estimates.Please inform us in writing of your plans to issue a federal register notice for this increase and any plans you may have to implement this increase, including the fee amounts planned and the timeline for implementation, no later than February 2, 2007. We look forward to working with you to ensure that changes in the current fee structure are fair and reasonable for the applicants and USCIS. Sincerely,Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT)Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA)Rep. John Conyers (D-MI)Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)
01.18.2007	Bill Closes Loopholes for Big Oil, Uses Funds for Alternative Energy ResearchMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today voted to pass H.R. 6, the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, that will repeal $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for oil companies in order to invest in clean renewable fuels and energy efficiency measures. H.R. 6 passed today by a vote of 264 to 163, and is the final element of the House Democrats’ 100 Hours Agenda.“Climate change is threatening the stability of our planet and scientists agree that human activities are the driving force behind the rise in global temperatures. We have a responsibility to safeguard the world’s natural resources and foster emerging technologies,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This bill is a first step on a path towards the creation of clean, renewable energy alternatives that will make our country energy independent and curtail one of the major causes of global warming.” H.R. 6 will ensure oil companies that were awarded the 1998 and 1999 leases for drilling pay their fair share in royalties, and would close tax loopholes created in the Republican-crafted 2005 energy bill. Using these savings, the bill would create a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency and improve energy conservation. “H.R. 6 will help spur the development of clean, renewable energy and alternative fuels by investing in American ingenuity,” Rep. Lofgren continued. “I have no doubt that the innovative minds in Silicon Valley will play a key role in producing the new technologies that are needed. H.R. 6 is a good first step forward in the effort to curb global warming.”
01.17.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following remarks on the House Floor today in opposition to the war in Iraq: For a video of Rep. Lofgren’s statement, click on the picture above “We did not need to invade Iraq. From the beginning, I found President Bush’s stated reasons for the Iraq war unconvincing. Now we know they were also untrue. “At the time the decision was being “sold” to the Congress, I was unable to get any level of assurance that there was a workable plan for victory. There weren’t answer to questions like, “What is the strategy for stabilization after the military victory?” or “What is the exit plan?” “The American forces would be greeted by grateful Iraqis bearing flowers. I was never able to learn what our “Plan B” was if this rosy scenario did not prove out. Now we know there was no “Plan B”. “I voted against the war in Iraq. But even though I opposed the invasion, I never dreamt that the President’s policies and course of action would be as disastrous as they have been for Iraq, for the Gulf Region, and for America. “I think the real question America now faces is: What is the least catastrophic end to this debacle and how can we attain it? Answering such a question would include options of utilizing diplomacy in the region as recommended by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. “It would include America calling upon neighboring states to take strong measures to avoid a spread of the conflict beyond Iraq as that nation disintegrates into tribal and sectarian violence. The Saudis are surely aware of the peril and Iran is apparently aware of the prospects. “But President Bush has once again offered a proposal based upon wishful thinking instead of the unpleasant reality. Having been the cause of the destabilization of Iraq, America has a moral obligation to take what steps are possible to attain new stability. But wanting to create stability within Iraq and being able to accomplish that goal with U.S. military forces is not the same thing. “That is why I have decided to co-sponsor Rep. John Murtha’s resolution, which urges the redeployment of our troops at the earliest practicable date while maintaining a quick-reaction U.S. force and an over-the-horizon presence of U.S. Marines in the region. Like Rep. Murtha, I feel that the solution to the war in Iraq is a diplomatic one. “America is not a country that takes disappointment well. Our culture is one where the phrase “failure is not an option” makes sense. That attitude has served us well historically in science, industry, and war. But it can also lead to problems and to decisions based on wishful thinking instead of on fact. “Political leaders don’t want to be the ones to bring this bad news to an American public raised on the phrase “failure is not an option.” Some even suspect that the President’s escalation plan may have as its primary goal running out the clock so the next President will be the one who has to deliver the bad news. “Right now, I think another American phrase is better for this situation: “When you’re in the hole, the first thing to do is to stop digging.” It’s time to stop digging. Sending in more troops is not going to bring stability to Iraq because the primary problem between the Iraqis is political, not military. “We are not going to be met with flowers by the Iraqis today or probably ever. More than 60% of the Iraqi public believes that it is a good thing to attack and kill Americans stationed in Iraq. We have to accept that we are part of the problem in Iraq, not part of the solution. “Real leadership deals with the world as it is, not as we wish it to be. And here’s something to keep in mind -- the American public already knows it’s time to stop digging. Now they’re ready to hear Congress say it out loud.”
01.17.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) voted today to make college more affordable and accessible by cutting the interest rate on subsidized student loans for undergraduates in half over the next five years — from 6.8% to 3.4%. The House passed H.R. 5 this afternoon by a strong bi-partisan vote of 356 to 71.“All qualified students deserve the opportunity to go to college. But currently the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket and interest rates on student loans are also on the rise.” said Rep. Lofgren. “This bill will cut those rates in half, helping parents reach the goal of a college education for their children.”H.R. 5 will cut student loan interest rates in half in five steps: from 6.8% to 6.12% in 2007; 5.44% in 2008; 4.76% in 2009; 4.08% in 2010; and 3.4% in 2011. When fully phased in, this bill would save the average student borrower in California $4,830. H.R. 5 is paid for by making reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective for students and for American taxpayers.“Making college more affordable helps America to remain competitive in our global economy, and is a priority of Democrats in Congress,” Rep. Lofgren continued. “Cutting interest rates on student loans is only our first step. Later this year, Democrats will also increase the maximum Pell Grant scholarship and take other important steps to reduce the financial barriers to a college education.”
01.12.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today announced her appointment by House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC) to serve as an At-Large Whip on his Whip Team for the 110th Congress. In this leadership role, Rep. Lofgren will help promote party unity and gather support for the legislative goals of the Democratic Party. “I am honored to be chosen by Majority Whip Clyburn as an At-Large Whip for the 110th Congress,” said Rep. Lofgren. “In this role, I will help to ensure that the new Democratic majority brings change to Washington and advances legislation that meets the needs of all Americans.”The term “whip” is derived from the British Parliament which adopted the term from the fox-hunting position “whipper-in,” the rider who kept the fox hounds gathered together behind their mission. The whip’s job in Congress is to gather support for legislation when it comes to the floor for a vote. The Democratic Caucus relies on the whip team to pull together the votes to pass its agenda.
01.11.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRepresentative Zoe Lofgren today voted to significantly expand federal funding for life-saving stem cell research, by supporting H.R. 3, the DeGette-Castle Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. The House passed this critical bill this afternoon by a strong bipartisan vote of 253 to 174.“By passing Prop 71 in 2004, Californians showed that life-saving stem cell research was an important priority to them. A majority of my constituents clearly oppose the politicization of scientific research. The use of embryonic stem cells by scientists in the effort to find curse for some of our most debilitating diseases should be a scientific, not a political decision,” said Rep. Lofgren. “It is time this groundbreaking research is allowed to move forward throughout the country, and the DeGette-Castle bill allows this to happen.”The DeGette-Castle bill would expand the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by lifting the restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines which can be used for federally-funded research that were imposed by President Bush in 2001. H.R. 3 only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. The DeGette-Castle bill also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives in May of 2005 and the U.S. Senate in July 2006, but was vetoed by President Bush.
01.10.2007	Bill Includes Provision to Improve Critical Infrastructure ListMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose ) voted yesterday to pass H.R. 1, implementing the unfulfilled recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission in order to improve homeland security, prevent terrorists from acquiring WMD, and develop strategies for preventing the spread of terrorism. Rep. Lofgren also acted as presiding officer on the House Floor during the debate and vote on H.Res. 35, a resolution that addressed the 9/11 Commission's recommendation on intelligence oversight reform by creating a Select Intelligence Oversight Panel within the House Appropriations Committee, which will be made up of members from both the Appropriations Committee and the Intelligence Committee.“After my four years serving on the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am gratified to see the House vote to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission as our first vote during the 100 Legislative Hours,” said Rep. Lofgren. “For too long the Republican Congress has received failing grades on implementation of these recommendations and I have called for improvement. Today’s vote is an important step towards making our country safer and more secure.”Rep. Lofgren was involved in drafting a provision in H.R. 1 to create a National Asset Database Consortium. This consortium will be made up of national laboratories and the heads of other federal agencies and will advise the Secretary of Homeland Security on the best way to identify, generate, organize and maintain the National Asset Database and the National At-Risk Database, which lists the infrastructure most at-risk to terrorist attacks. “Since its creation, I have been concerned about the lack of success in the creation and maintenance of the National Asset Database and critical infrastructure list,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This provision of H.R. 1 allows the national labs to take over mapping of the nation’s critical infrastructure, and may finally permit real infrastructure to be included instead of miniature golf courses and popcorn plants.”
01.10.2007	Bill Includes Provision to Improve Critical Infrastructure ListMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose ) voted yesterday to pass H.R. 1, implementing the unfulfilled recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission in order to improve homeland security, prevent terrorists from acquiring WMD, and develop strategies for preventing the spread of terrorism. Rep. Lofgren also acted as presiding officer on the House Floor during the debate and vote on H.Res. 35, a resolution that addressed the 9/11 Commission's recommendation on intelligence oversight reform by creating a Select Intelligence Oversight Panel within the House Appropriations Committee, which will be made up of members from both the Appropriations Committee and the Intelligence Committee.“After my four years serving on the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am gratified to see the House vote to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission as our first vote during the 100 Legislative Hours,” said Rep. Lofgren. “For too long the Republican Congress has received failing grades on implementation of these recommendations and I have called for improvement. Today’s vote is an important step towards making our country safer and more secure.”Rep. Lofgren was involved in drafting a provision in H.R. 1 to create a National Asset Database Consortium. This consortium will be made up of national laboratories and the heads of other federal agencies and will advise the Secretary of Homeland Security on the best way to identify, generate, organize and maintain the National Asset Database and the National At-Risk Database, which lists the infrastructure most at-risk to terrorist attacks. “Since its creation, I have been concerned about the lack of success in the creation and maintenance of the National Asset Database and critical infrastructure list,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This provision of H.R. 1 allows the national labs to take over mapping of the nation’s critical infrastructure, and may finally permit real infrastructure to be included instead of miniature golf courses and popcorn plants.”
01.05.2007	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today presided over the House Floor during the debate and passage of rules returning pay-as-you-go spending requirements to the House budget process. This is the first time in Rep. Lofgren’s congressional tenure that she has presided over the House Floor. To view the video of Rep. Lofgren during her time as Presiding Officer, click here:
01.05.2007	TEAM Up for Energy Independence Act Promotes Alternatively Fueled VehiclesMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) re-introduced H.R. 182, the TEAM (To Encourage Alternatively fueled vehicle Manufacturing) Up for Energy Independence Act, yesterday during the opening day of the 110th Congress. H.R. 182 will encourage the production of alternatively fueled vehicles by phasing in a tax penalty on the manufacture or import of new, non-flex fuel cars, light trucks, and SUVs. Rep. Lofgren first introduced this bill in the 109th Congress as H.R. 5959 last July.“My bill would be a step to help combat climate change and promote energy independence by encouraging the development and distribution of alternatively fueled vehicles,” said Rep. Lofgren. “In the 110th Congress, we will be focusing on numerous ways to achieve energy independence for our country, and my bill could help achieve this goal.”H.R. 182 phases in a tax penalty on the manufacture or import of new, non-flex fuel vehicles. Any revenues generated by this tax will then be used to help independent gas station owners install alternative fuel equipment. Since the cost of producing flex fuel vehicles is minimal at the time of manufacturing, these tax penalties can be easily avoided and will provide a needed incentive to move this emerging alternative energy technology forward. “Currently, there are only 6 million flex fuel capable cars on the road and about 900 fueling stations that provide alternative fuel across the country — with just 4 stations in California. We must do more to make flex fuel vehicles practical and accessible to everyone,” Rep. Lofgren continued. “H.R. 182 is one of many steps we can take to achieve energy independence and help America move towards a more secure and sustainable future.”
12.14.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today applauded the work of San Jose professor Scott Myers-Lipton for his work in initiating the Gulf Coast Civic Works Project, and expressed her interest in working with Myers-Lipton and elected officials from the Gulf Coast region to help this project take shape. “The Gulf Coast Civic Works Project is not yet a plan, it is just an idea. But it is a good idea,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Working with Congressional Representatives from the Gulf Coast Region I hope that we can transform this good idea into an actual plan that may have a positive impact on rebuilding the region and building up the working families of the Gulf Coast who were frozen out of the process by prior efforts.”Prof. Myers-Lipton will hold press conferences in New Orleans, Louisiana, Gulfport, Mississippi, and San Jose, California today with the Mississippi and Louisiana NAACP to announce a “national call to students” to participate in Louisiana Winter in January, 2007. During Louisiana Winter, teams of 20-40 students will spend five days organizing in towns and cities throughout the Gulf Coast, culminating in a mass rally in New Orleans. Students will also collect opinions and ideas from Louisiana residents to submit to Congress for use in drafting legislation. Myers-Lipton has proposed the Gulf Coast Civic Works Project with the goal of working with Congress to create 100,000 jobs for Gulf Coast residents to rebuild their communities.
12.08.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today in opposition to H.R. 6406, a trade bill including a provision to grant Vietnam permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with the U.S. H.R. 6406 passed the House by a vote of 212-184:“Mr. Speaker, unfortunately the Republican Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee introduced a 259-page trade bill that was delivered too late for most us to really study. Many of us have not had a chance to thoroughly read the bill, let alone participate in committee hearings or a markup on the bill. “Regardless, we are on the House floor tonight getting ready to vote on a bill we know very little about.“Tucked away on page 74 of this 259-page bill is what appears to be a small provision on extending permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with Vietnam, a bill that failed in the House last month. “Although I support some provisions in the bill before us, I am voting against H.R. 6346 because the PNTR provision does not do anything to improve human rights conditions in Vietnam. “We have a unique opportunity to significantly affect the state of human rights and political and religious freedom in Vietnam. It is a mistake not to use the leverage of PNTR to begin to gain these improvements in Vietnam.“Just two months ago, the Vietnamese government arrested my constituent, a U.S. citizen, Cong Thanh Do. Mr. Do had posted comments on the internet while at home in San Jose, California advocating that Vietnam undergo a peaceful transition to a multi-party democracy. For exercising his U.S. Constitutional right of free speech, the Vietnamese arrested him and held him in prison for 38 days in Vietnam without charges. “Other U.S. citizens have been imprisoned in Vietnam for what appear to be political reasons, including the sister of another one of my constituents, Thuong Nguyen “Cuc” Foshee, who was also released after pressure from U.S. legislators in the time before consideration of PNTR.“These Americans were freed, not because Vietnam had a sudden change of heart on human rights in their country, but precisely because they care so deeply about gaining permanent normal trade relations with the U.S. Given this experience, we know Vietnam is willing to make changes on human rights if we demand it in exchange for PNTR. “Sadly, although both Mr. Do and Ms. Foshee are free today and back in America, I am concerned about hundreds of Vietnamese nationals as well as other U.S. citizens imprisoned in Vietnam. “The Vietnamese government has repeatedly violated human rights. Hundreds of Vietnamese have been imprisoned, put under house arrest, or placed under intense surveillance for simply practicing their religion or speaking out about democracy and human rights in Vietnam. “Following his return to the U.S., Mr. Do provided me a disturbing list of over 130 Vietnamese nationals and U.S. citizens he believes are currently imprisoned in Vietnam as prisoners of conscience or harassed by the government for simply speaking about democracy and human rights. “In addition, groups such as the Human Rights Watch have published reports of 355 Montagnard prisoners of conscience currently imprisoned in Vietnam.“I am not alone in my concerns about Vietnam’s human rights record. The Department of State, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect to Journalists, and various Vietnamese-American groups have documented egregious violations of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech in Vietnam. “I have been a supporter of international trade. But I also know that the Vietnamese Government would correct their behavior in order to perfect a trading relationship with the United States. Given the alarming human rights violations currently underway in Vietnam, it seems a mistake for our country to grant PNTR to Vietnam without requiring that the Vietnamese government make significant improvements in respecting human rights, free speech, and freedom of religion. “The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. We should not make an exception for Vietnam. “At a time when we are spending 8 to 10 billion dollars a month and shedding the blood of our American servicemen and women proclaiming the cause to be democracy for Iraq, how is it that we can fail to use our mere economic leverage to try to achieve human rights in Vietnam?“With Vietnam’s strong interest in PNTR, Congress has a unique opportunity to bring about substantive improvements in human rights. We should not pass up this one-time opportunity by sneaking through PNTR in a 259-page bill that was just introduced just yesterday in the last week of a lame duck Congress.
12.05.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) gave the following statement on the House Floor today in opposition to H.R. 1176, the Nonprofit Athletic Organization Protection Act of 2005:Please click on the above picture for a video of Rep. Lofgren’s floor statement “This bill I believe is trying to protect sports organizations, but unfortunately it does leave children unprotected from child molesters. We know that sexual predators volunteer to be involved with children's sports programs and pedophiles routinely use the bond between coach and athlete to prey on children. “A Seattle Times investigation uncovered 159 coaches who had been reprimanded or fired for sexual misconduct between 1993 and 2003, and of those coaches, 98 continued to coach or teach children. An investigation in Texas uncovered 60 incidents of high school coaches being fired or reprimanded as a result of allegations ever sexual misconduct with minors. Last month a Maryland high school basketball coach was charged with abusing three minors. “The amendment to the bill that’s been mentioned doesn't fix the problem of providing liability relief to these nonprofits. The bill exempts claims based on federal, state, and local statutes concerning sexual assault molestation or harassment. But the bill grants complete immunity for claims of negligence in establishing rules related to adult supervision. “I would like to read a small portion of a letter from a scholar, Professor Andy Popper, a professor at the American University School of Law.¥Common law torts claims for failure to exercise due care in hiring coaches investigating backgrounds or overseeing inappropriate activity would be actual but I think a plain reading of section 4-d and section 5 suggests that those claims would be barred and that is really quite horrendous. From the perspective 6 children who might be victimized by adults treated in ways that are patently destructive from an emotional or psychological vantage point. What possible reason could there be to pass this bill?’“He goes on to say:¥After reading this bill, I see no language that exempts state common law tort claims. To the contrary, the specific areas exempted, labor law, antitrust law, statutory claims, etc. suggest that Congress intends to limit -- to exempt very specific areas only. Given that list in 4-d, unless the bill were amended to include an exemption for all state common law tort claims, the bill will be seen as a bar to cases involving negligent hiring, failing to assess background, negligent oversight of individuals who may well do great harm to children, to athletes, to those most in need of protection.’“I would like to note the national alliance to end sexual violence has asked us to vote against this bill as amended. For the reason why, I will quote from President Hostler’s letter:¥As a victim advocacies organization, we believe the passage of this bill would create serious problems for victims and would not allow them to hold perpetrators and organizations responsible.’“Now, the amended bill tells athletic organizations that they owe children no duty of care. The bill takes away any incentive to take reasonable steps to keep child molesters out and to keep children safe. “Do I suggest that the authors of this bill intend to protect child molesters? I can't imagine that they do. But the intent doesn't matter. “We are writing law here. And the impact of adopting this bill would in fact be to protect child molesters. I’m someone who really believes in Little League. My dad was a Little League manager my entire young life. I have strong memories of sitting in the stands day after day, month after month, watching my brother catch the ball. "I believe in Little League. I also know that my dad, were he alive today, would say I don’t believe in protecting child molesters."Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Lofgren Opposes Trade Bill Because of Vietnam PNTR Provision Washington, DC — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today in opposition to H.R. 6406, a trade bill including a provision to grant Vietnam permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with the U.S. H.R. 6406 passed the House by a vote of 212-184:“Mr. Speaker, unfortunately the Republican Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee introduced a 259-page trade bill that was delivered too late for most us to really study. Many of us have not had a chance to thoroughly read the bill, let alone participate in committee hearings or a markup on the bill. “Regardless, we are on the House floor tonight getting ready to vote on a bill we know very little about.“Tucked away on page 74 of this 259-page bill is what appears to be a small provision on extending permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with Vietnam, a bill that failed in the House last month. “Although I support some provisions in the bill before us, I am voting against H.R. 6346 because the PNTR provision does not do anything to improve human rights conditions in Vietnam. “We have a unique opportunity to significantly affect the state of human rights and political and religious freedom in Vietnam. It is a mistake not to use the leverage of PNTR to begin to gain these improvements in Vietnam.“Just two months ago, the Vietnamese government arrested my constituent, a U.S. citizen, Cong Thanh Do. Mr. Do had posted comments on the internet while at home in San Jose, California advocating that Vietnam undergo a peaceful transition to a multi-party democracy. For exercising his U.S. Constitutional right of free speech, the Vietnamese arrested him and held him in prison for 38 days in Vietnam without charges. “Other U.S. citizens have been imprisoned in Vietnam for what appear to be political reasons, including the sister of another one of my constituents, Thuong Nguyen “Cuc” Foshee, who was also released after pressure from U.S. legislators in the time before consideration of PNTR.“These Americans were freed, not because Vietnam had a sudden change of heart on human rights in their country, but precisely because they care so deeply about gaining permanent normal trade relations with the U.S. Given this experience, we know Vietnam is willing to make changes on human rights if we demand it in exchange for PNTR. “Sadly, although both Mr. Do and Ms. Foshee are free today and back in America, I am concerned about hundreds of Vietnamese nationals as well as other U.S. citizens imprisoned in Vietnam. “The Vietnamese government has repeatedly violated human rights. Hundreds of Vietnamese have been imprisoned, put under house arrest, or placed under intense surveillance for simply practicing their religion or speaking out about democracy and human rights in Vietnam. “Following his return to the U.S., Mr. Do provided me a disturbing list of over 130 Vietnamese nationals and U.S. citizens he believes are currently imprisoned in Vietnam as prisoners of conscience or harassed by the government for simply speaking about democracy and human rights. “In addition, groups such as the Human Rights Watch have published reports of 355 Montagnard prisoners of conscience currently imprisoned in Vietnam.“I am not alone in my concerns about Vietnam’s human rights record. The Department of State, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect to Journalists, and various Vietnamese-American groups have documented egregious violations of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech in Vietnam. “I have been a supporter of international trade. But I also know that the Vietnamese Government would correct their behavior in order to perfect a trading relationship with the United States. Given the alarming human rights violations currently underway in Vietnam, it seems a mistake for our country to grant PNTR to Vietnam without requiring that the Vietnamese government make significant improvements in respecting human rights, free speech, and freedom of religion. “The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. We should not make an exception for Vietnam. “At a time when we are spending 8 to 10 billion dollars a month and shedding the blood of our American servicemen and women proclaiming the cause to be democracy for Iraq, how is it that we can fail to use our mere economic leverage to try to achieve human rights in Vietnam?“With Vietnam’s strong interest in PNTR, Congress has a unique opportunity to bring about substantive improvements in human rights. We should not pass up this one-time opportunity by sneaking through PNTR in a 259-page bill that was just introduced just yesterday in the last week of a lame duck Congress.”
12.01.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govLofgren Presents Local Youth with Congressional AwardDecember 1, 2006Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today presented San Jose youth Alina Sayre with the Congressional Award Bronze Medal for her service to the community and achievement of set goals.Sayre completed over 100 hours of public service working as a camp counselor at Daybreak Camp, where she taught 13 second and third graders about camping and hiking. She also focused on public speaking and creative writing for the personal development component of the Congressional Award, enrolling in classes and joining the debate team. “I am proud to be presenting Alina with this Congressional Award for her work in the community and her personal dedication,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Her work exemplifies the cornerstones of the Congressional Award: service to others, initiative and achievement.”The Congressional Award is open to all young people ages 14-23 in America. To earn the award, Sayre set and achieved goals in four areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and exploration. The Congressional Award was established in 1979. To date, more than 6,500 Congressional Awards have been earned, representing over 1.5 million volunteer hours by young people across the nation.Rep. Zoe Lofgren Presents Alina Sayre with the Congressional Award Bronze Medal
11.27.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govFollowing requests for an investigation of the National Security Agency’s (NSA) warrantless surveillance program from Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), and other House members, U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General Glenn A. Fine today informed Lofgren and Hinchey that his office has opened a program review of the agency’s involvement with the program. Lofgren and Hinchey have led the call for nearly a year for DOJ officials to examine the NSA warrantless surveillance program with Lofgren pushing for Fine to investigate the matter and Hinchey pursuing a probe through the agency’s Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR). “The OIG previously received clearances relating to the NSA program for myself and two other OIG supervisors. After conducting initial inquiries into the program, we have decided to open a program review that will examine the Department's controls and use of information related to the program and the Department's compliance with legal requirements governing the program,” Fine wrote to Lofgren and Hinchey. “On October 20, 2006, I made a formal request to the Attorney General for additional clearances for OIG staff to conduct this program review. The Attorney General forwarded the request to the White House, which makes the decisions on clearance requests relating to the program. Last week, I received word that the request for clearances for the OIG staff to conduct this review would be granted. As a result, the OIG has opened this program review, and I wanted to inform of the review.”In response to Fine’s letter, Lofgren said “After nearly a year of stonewalling, security clearances have finally been approved by the White House so that the Department of Justice can investigate its own involvement in the NSA’s warrantless surveillance program. I look forward to the results of this inquiry. Congress needs to craft legislation so that terrorists can be the subject of surveillance while the Constitution of the United States is honored. To do that, a full investigation into the program as a whole, not just the DOJ's involvement, will be necessary.” Hinchey said, “After trying for nearly a year to get DOJ to conduct an investigation of the NSA's warrantless spy program, I am very pleased to learn that the agency's Inspector General is finally opening an investigation that we were made to believe would never happen. While I'm glad that the White House finally relented and granted additional clearances for DOJ officials to conduct an investigation, I can't help but be skeptical about the timing. I wonder whether this reversal is only coming now after the election as an attempt to appease Democrats in Congress who have been critical of the NSA program and will soon be in control and armed with subpoena power. While it is important to learn how DOJ officials have handled the NSA program and determine whether any information gathered from the program such as phone numbers has been used inappropriately, we need Inspector General Fine to expand his probe to examine how the warrantless spy program was born, how it evolved, and what laws may have been violated by Administration officials as they implemented the program.”Following the New York Times’ initial reporting of the NSA warrantless surveillance program in December 2005, 39 House members led by Lofgren sent Fine a letter asking him to investigate the program. Fine responded saying that such a probe fell outside of his jurisdiction and advised the House members that DOJ’s Office of Professional Responsibility would best be suited to investigate the matter. In January, Hinchey and three of his House colleagues wrote to OPR requesting an investigation. In February, OPR Counsel H. Marshall Jarrett informed Hinchey that an investigation was in fact underway. However, Jarrett wrote Lofgren and Hinchey in May that he had closed the probe because his investigators were denied clearances. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales revealed in July that President Bush was the one who denied the security clearances. Documents released by Gonzales in July also revealed that Inspector General Fine and some of his staff had in fact been granted security clearances to examine the NSA warrantless surveillance program. Since Lofgren and Hinchey became aware of the fact that Inspector General Fine and his staff had clearances to investigate the NSA warrantless surveillance program, they wrote to Fine on September 14 to request that he conduct a very thorough and detailed investigation of how the program came about and how it has been carried out. Among other things, Lofgren, Hinchey, and their colleagues specifically requested that IG Fine investigate: whether the president, the attorney general, and the director of the NSA violated the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act by establishing and carrying out the program; who within the DOJ first authorized the domestic surveillance program and what that official's justification was for doing so; if the Bush administration had already enacted the program before getting original DOJ approval; what the reauthorization process for the surveillance initiative entails; and why, according to news reports, did the then-Acting Attorney General refuse to reauthorize the program and why the Attorney General expressed strong reservations about the program and may have rejected it as well.Since Fine only indicated that his office would be looking at how DOJ operates within the structure of the NSA program, Hinchey said he will be writing Fine a letter to demand that the OIG investigation be expanded to cover the questions included in both the September 14 letter and the letter the congressman sent to OPR in January 2006.To view a PDF of Fine's letter, click here: http://www.house.gov/lofgren/112706_DOJ_NSA_Investigation.pdf.
11.13.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement for the Congressional Record today opposing Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with Vietnam:“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to granting permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to Vietnam. “Just two months ago, the Vietnamese government arrested my constituent, a U.S. citizen, Cong Thanh Do. Mr. Do had posted comments on the internet while at home in San Jose, California advocating that Vietnam undergo a peaceful transition to a multi-party democracy. For exercising his U.S. Constitutional right of free speech, the Vietnamese arrested him and held him in prison for 38 days in Vietnam without charges. “Other U.S. citizens have been imprisoned in Vietnam for what appear to be political reasons, including the sister of another one of my constituents, Thuong Nguyen ¥Cuc’ Foshee. “Although both are free today, I am concerned about hundreds of Vietnamese nationals as well as other U.S. citizens imprisoned in Vietnam. “The Vietnamese government has repeatedly violated human rights. Hundreds of Vietnamese have been imprisoned, put under house arrest, or placed under intense surveillance for simply practicing their religion or speaking out about democracy and human rights in Vietnam. “Following his return to the U.S., Mr. Do provided me a disturbing list of over 130 Vietnamese nationals and U.S. citizens he believes are currently imprisoned in Vietnam as prisoners of conscience or harassed by the government for simply speaking about democracy and human rights. “In addition, groups such as the Human Rights Watch have published reports of 355 Montagnard prisoners of conscience currently imprisoned in Vietnam.“I am not alone in my concerns about Vietnam’s human rights record. The Department of State, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect to Journalists, and various Vietnamese-American groups have documented egregious violations of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech in Vietnam. “I have been a supporter of international trade. But I also know that the Vietnamese Government would correct their behavior in order to perfect a trading relationship with the United States. Given the alarming human rights violations currently underway in Vietnam, it seems a mistake for our country to grant PNTR to Vietnam without requiring that the Vietnamese government make significant improvements in respecting human rights, free speech, and freedom of religion. “The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. We should not make an exception for Vietnam. “At a time when we are spending $8-$10 billion a month and shedding the blood of our American servicemen and women proclaiming the cause to be democracy for Iraq, how is it that we can fail to use our mere economic leverage to try to achieve human rights in Vietnam?”
10.31.2006	Media Contact: Stacey Leavandosky, 202.225.3072, stacey.leavandosky@mail.house.govWashington, DC — The Honorable George W. BushPresident United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20502 Dear Mr. President,I write to express my strong concerns with granting permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to Vietnam and supporting Vietnam’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) without also demanding a significant improvement in Vietnam’s record on human rights. I respectfully request that you use your prospective trip to Vietnam to insist that Vietnam make substantive improvements in the protection of religious freedom, free speech, and other basic human rights. As you know, the recent arrest and detention of a U.S. citizen, Cong Thanh Do, in Vietnam for exercising his U.S. constitutional right to free speech while in the U.S. was troubling. Although Mr. Do was recently released and returned to the U.S., I understand there may be other cases of U.S. citizens held in Vietnam for illegitimate reasons, including four U.S. citizens currently held without charges for over one year. In addition, I am aware of several Vietnamese nationals who have been imprisoned, put under house arrest, or placed under intense surveillance for simply practicing their religion or speaking out about democracy and human rights in Vietnam. Following his return to the U.S. after his imprisonment in Vietnam, Mr. Do provided us a disturbing list of over 130 Vietnamese nationals and U.S. citizens he believes are currently imprisoned in Vietnam as prisoners of conscience. I am not alone in my concerns about Vietnam’s human rights record. The Department of State, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect to Journalists, and various Vietnamese-American groups have documented egregious violations of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech in Vietnam. News accounts advise of extensive efforts to control peaceful expression of political beliefs on the internet through manipulation of that technology as well as arrest of those who advocate peacefully on the internet. In fact, those arrested with Mr. Do this summer remain in custody which should be of strong concern to our country.For the past two years, the State Department has designated Vietnam a “country of particular concern.” In company with Vietnam are such human rights violators as Sudan, Burma, China, Iran, and North Korea. In its 2006 report, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom states, “The government of Vietnam continues to commit systematic and egregious violations of freedom of religion or belief.”The Committee to Protect Journalists says, “Press conditions in Vietnam largely stagnated in 2005, despite efforts by the country's leaders to project an image of greater openness. Three writers remained imprisoned on antistate charges for material distributed online; print and broadcast media continued to work under the supervision of the government; and attacks on journalists were common.”Furthermore, Congress has consistently registered its concern over Vietnam’s human rights record. Congress has passed the Vietnam Human Rights Act, both in the 107th and 108th Congresses, a bill that would limit non-humanitarian assistance to Vietnam unless it shows substantial progress towards protecting the rights of its citizens. Congress has also passed resolution after resolution calling on Vietnam to immediately and unconditionally release all political prisoners, restore civil and human rights, including freedom of speech, information, religion, movement and association, and to guarantee equal protection under the law regardless of religious, political philosophy, or associations.[1] Furthermore, several Members of Congress have repeatedly written to you, the State Department, and the Vietnamese government urging protection of basic human rights for Vietnamese citizens, especially after specific incidents in which the Vietnamese government cracked down on the free practice of religion, speech, and association. Despite these repeated attempts by individual Members and the entire U.S. Congress, as well as concerns raised by the State Department, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, and several non-governmental organizations, the government of Vietnam has consistently refused to substantively improve the human rights situation in Vietnam.Given these alarming concerns and Vietnam’s strong interest in joining the WTO, Vietnam’s interest in obtaining PNTR from the U.S., and your prospective trip to Vietnam, the U.S. is in a unique position to bring about significant improvements in Vietnam. I respectfully request that you use this opportunity to bring the wrongly imprisoned U.S. citizens home, a fair, expeditious and transparent adjudication process for those legitimately arrested, and substantive improvements on human rights for the Vietnamese people. The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. No exception should be made for Vietnam.Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govLofgren Opposes Trade Relations Deal with VietnamNovember 13, 2006Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement for the Congressional Record today opposing Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with Vietnam:“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to granting permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to Vietnam. “Just two months ago, the Vietnamese government arrested my constituent, a U.S. citizen, Cong Thanh Do. Mr. Do had posted comments on the internet while at home in San Jose, California advocating that Vietnam undergo a peaceful transition to a multi-party democracy. For exercising his U.S. Constitutional right of free speech, the Vietnamese arrested him and held him in prison for 38 days in Vietnam without charges. “Other U.S. citizens have been imprisoned in Vietnam for what appear to be political reasons, including the sister of another one of my constituents, Thuong Nguyen ¥Cuc’ Foshee. “Although both are free today, I am concerned about hundreds of Vietnamese nationals as well as other U.S. citizens imprisoned in Vietnam. “The Vietnamese government has repeatedly violated human rights. Hundreds of Vietnamese have been imprisoned, put under house arrest, or placed under intense surveillance for simply practicing their religion or speaking out about democracy and human rights in Vietnam. “Following his return to the U.S., Mr. Do provided me a disturbing list of over 130 Vietnamese nationals and U.S. citizens he believes are currently imprisoned in Vietnam as prisoners of conscience or harassed by the government for simply speaking about democracy and human rights. “In addition, groups such as the Human Rights Watch have published reports of 355 Montagnard prisoners of conscience currently imprisoned in Vietnam.“I am not alone in my concerns about Vietnam’s human rights record. The Department of State, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect to Journalists, and various Vietnamese-American groups have documented egregious violations of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech in Vietnam. “I have been a supporter of international trade. But I also know that the Vietnamese Government would correct their behavior in order to perfect a trading relationship with the United States. Given the alarming human rights violations currently underway in Vietnam, it seems a mistake for our country to grant PNTR to Vietnam without requiring that the Vietnamese government make significant improvements in respecting human rights, free speech, and freedom of religion. “The United States of America has a long and honorable tradition of safeguarding freedom and human rights throughout the world, especially with our trading partners. We should not make an exception for Vietnam. “At a time when we are spending $8-$10 billion a month and shedding the blood of our American servicemen and women proclaiming the cause to be democracy for Iraq, how is it that we can fail to use our mere economic leverage to try to achieve human rights in Vietnam?” Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov [1] See S.J.Res. 168 (103rd Congress), H.Con.Res. 216 (103rd Congress), S.Res. 174 (104th Congress), H.Res. 231 (105th Congress), H.Con.Res. 295 (106th Congress), H.Con.Res. 322 (106th Congress), H.Res. 427 (10 8th congress), H.Res. 613 (108th Congress), H.Con.Resolution 378 (108th Congress), H.Con.Res. 320 (109th Congress).
10.04.2006	Media Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.govWashington, DC — On Thursday, September 28, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced her co-sponsorship of H.R. 550, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act of 2005, which would create paper records for votes made on electronic voting machines. The following clips are from the House Administration hearing on H.R. 550. In her closing statement, she announces her support for H.R. 550.http://www.house.gov/lofgren/HR550_Opening.wmv http://www.house.gov/lofgren/HR550_Question.wmv http://www.house.gov/lofgren/HR550_Closing.wmv
09.27.2006	Media Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.govVideo of Lofgren Criticizing H.R. 6054, the Military Commissions ActSeptember 27, 2006To view the video of Rep. Lofgren's statement on the House floor today criticizing H.R. 6054, the Military Commissions Act, please click on the photo below: <A href="http://recap.fednet.net/archive/Buildasx.asp?sProxy=80_hflr092706_064.wmv&sTime=00:00:47.0&eTime=00:02:53&duration=00:02:07.0&UserName=replofgca&sLocation=G&sExpire=0" target=`>
09.27.2006	National Intelligence Estimate Confirms Bush’s Failure to Protect the American People from TerrorismMedia Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.govWashington, DC — On Tuesday September 26, 2006, Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) cosponsored H. Res. 1043, a resolution that would direct the declassification of the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE). The New York Times and other newspapers have published articles summarizing the conclusions of a classified National Intelligence Estimate report, issued in April, which concludes that the Iraq war has worsened the threat of global terrorism facing the United States. The NIE is the authoritative and consensus view of the 16 U.S. intelligence agencies. Upon cosponsoring the resolution, Representative Lofgren issued the following statement:“The entire NIE except for sources and methods should be declassified. Americans deserve to know the extent of the effect this war has had on the war on terror.”“This report seems to confirm our concerns: this war is a huge recruiting tool for terrorists. The end result is that Americans are now less safe because of a stubborn and failed ¥stay-the-course’ scheme.”“The Republicans are playing partisan politics with America’s national security. We need hearings to discuss the National Intelligence Estimate and the Republicans have again demonstrated that they are more concerned about the November elections than being square with the American people and being right in our fight against terrorism.” Media Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.gov
09.26.2006	Media Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) honored San Jose residents Tom and Mary Ann Ziegler as they received the 2006 Angels in Adoption Award from the Congressional Coalition on Adoption on September 21, 2006. The Angels in Adoption program commends individuals and families who have made outstanding contributions toward the welfare of children in the United States foster care system. “The Ziegler’s compassion is truly inspiring,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “They have opened their doors to so many foster children in need in San Jose and have devoted their lives to this cause. I am honored to recognize their dedication by selecting this family to receive the 2006 Angels in Adoption Award.”Tom and Mary Ann Ziegler have raised three sons and have adopted two special needs children. Sharon, an 11 year old Filipina who suffers from epilepsy, was taken into the Ziegler home in February 1997 and adopted the following January. Richard, a six-year-old Cambodian with Down’s syndrome, was adopted on January 2003. The Ziegler’s have been foster parents for fourteen years in Santa Clara County and have cared for one hundred children during this time. Mary Ann was President of the Foster Parent Association from 1994-1997 and a Board Member since 1990. Tom is currently retired and oversees much of the care and Doctor visits for the children. The 109th Congressional Angels, chosen from all fifty states and the District of Columbia, were recognized at a gala ceremony hosted by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute in Washington, D.C. The Angels in Adoption program was founded in 1999 to raise public awareness about plight of foster children and orphans, and to honor individuals who have enriched the lives of children in need of a home. Pictured: Congresswoman Lofgren and the Ziegler Family
09.21.2006	Do Was Unjustly Imprisoned in Vietnam for Five WeeksMedia Contact: Jared Roscoe, 202.225.3072, jared.roscoe@mail.house.govWashington, DC — Rep. Lofgren (D-San Jose) enthusiastically welcomes the news that the Vietnamese government has released American citizen and San Jose resident Cong Thanh Do from prison. Do, who had been in prison since August 14, was released early this morning. The Vietnamese government imprisoned Do without any official charges. “I am so happy that Cong Thanh Do is finally able to rejoin his family in San Jose. The Dobui family has been anxiously waiting for his safe release for many weeks, and today I share their excitement and relief.”“Many people have generously assisted me to help secure Mr. Do’s release. I would like to thank the bipartisan team at the highest levels in Congress who have lent their support. I would especially like to thank Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Maura Harty, who worked tirelessly on this case and with whom I communicated with on a daily basis over the last many weeks.”Early this morning, the Dobui family was contacted by Martin Opus, a consular official in Ho Chi Minh City. Mr. Opus first relayed Mr. Do’s flight info then called again to tell them Mr. Do was leaving for the airport and would call his family from his cell phone. After learning of Mr. Do’s release, the Dobui family stated, “Thank you to everyone who helped us, especially Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and her staff. We also thank other members of Congress for their support, including Mike Honda and Loretta Sanchez. We’d also like to thank the City of San Jose, the Vietnamese American community and all those who worked to secure Cong Thanh Do’s release.” Bien Dobui added, “We’re ecstatic and feel very relieved and very anxious to see him.” His wife Jane Dobui said, “Now we can finally smile and laugh again.”
09.12.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) gave the following statement on the House Floor today to urge the release of San Jose resident Cong Thanh Do from custody in Vietnam:Click on picture to watch Rep. Lofgren’s speech“Mr. Speaker, on August 14 the Communist government in Vietnam arrested an American, my constituent, Cong Thanh Do while he was visiting as a tourist in Vietnam with his family.“It took two weeks for the Vietnamese government to even allow the State Department to meet with Mr. Do. The State Department has repeatedly assured me that Mr. Do is nothing more than a peaceful democracy and human rights activist who has written articles that he then posted on the internet while he was living in the United States.“The Socialist Republic of Vietnam has had the gall to keep this American citizen imprisoned and incommunicado for nearly a month at the same time they’re making gestures to the United States government suggesting that they should have permanent normal trade relations with us. It’s absolutely unbelievable that the communist government would think we would entertain that while they keep our American locked up.”
09.07.2006	Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov To view Rep. Lofgren’s statement on the House Floor today criticizing the Republicans for their inaction this week, please click on the picture below:
09.05.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov September 5, 2006 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) released the following statement today in response to the imprisonment of San Jose resident Cong Thanh Do by the Vietnamese government. Do, an American citizen, has been in custody in Vietnam since August 14, when he was detained by Vietnamese officials. "I have been in touch with Cong Thanh Do’s family and am working to ensure his safe return to America. The Vietnamese government has a track record of human rights violations against people who work to bring freedom and democracy to Vietnam through peaceful means. The Vietnamese government has now taken the unprecedented step of imprisoning a United States citizen who states that he is being held solely because of his pro-democratic, non-violent views. His incarceration is outrageous. I will do everything possible to guarantee Cong Thanh Do’s prompt release," said Rep. Lofgren.
08.07.2006	Sends Investigation Requests to Department of State and Homeland SecurityMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today sent the following letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff calling for an investigation into accounts that as many as 100 Iranian scientists, professors, and businessmen planning to attend a conference on earthquakes in Santa Clara, California were denied entry into the country despite having valid visas issued by the U.S. State Department:August 7, 2006Dear Secretary Rice and Secretary Chertoff:I am very concerned that recent press accounts have estimated that as many as 100 Iranian scientists, professors, and businessmen planning to attend a conference on earthquakes in Santa Clara, California were denied entry into the U.S. despite having valid visas issued by the U.S. State Department. The attached report from the August 5, 2006 issue of the San Jose Mercury News presents a disturbing picture of the treatment of these scientists and suggests a significant challenge for the exchange of scientific and life-saving information for our country. Like California, Iran is no stranger to the death and destruction caused by earthquakes. In California, thousands of deaths and millions of dollars of property damage have been caused by earthquakes in the last century. Similarly, on December 26, 2003 an earthquake in Southeastern Iran killed at least 30,000 people, injured 30,000 others, and caused damage or complete destruction to 85% of buildings in the Bam area. Clearly, an exchange of ideas by international experts on methods of improved prediction and preparation for earthquakes and the minimization of death and destruction is needed. Unfortunately, the San Jose Mercury News described what appears to be a U.S. government policy that opposes the exchange of scientific information that may be lifesaving.Here’s what the Mercury News reported: Out of approximately 300 Iranians who applied for visas to attend an earthquake conference in Santa Clara, less than half were approved. When these Iranians arrived at U.S. ports of entry, as many as 100 of approximately 120 were denied entry into the U.S. after being told that their visas were revoked for national security reasons. Each was then placed in detention in what was described as “jail-like” facilities, even those who arrived with children. Some spent a night in detention before finally being allowed to return to Iran. I noted with special concern while reading reports of these incidents that despite the propagation of a blanket policy to deny entry of Iranian foreign nationals at U.S. ports, officials at U.S. consulates and embassies were still granting visas to Iranian nationals. This is glaringly indicative of a lack of communication and coordination between the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State. I understand the serious danger posed by the current Iranian regime and I have voted for resolutions condemning the Iranian government for violating its international nuclear nonproliferation obligations and for supporting terrorism, as well as a bill to strengthen sanctions against Iran. However, I do not understand why the United States now appears to be equating these Iranian scientists with the hostility posed by their government. Can it be that all these scientists who were issued visas by our State Department were each discovered to be a threat to America during their airplane rides to the United States? In the past, Secretary Powell has publicly assured me and other Members of Congress that efforts would be made to facilitate the movement of scientists into the United States for conferences and other worthy scientific purposes. It is my further understanding that Secretary Rice has not come to a different conclusion. So far as I am aware, it has never been U.S. policy to deny foreign scientists, who do not pose a threat to national security, entry for scientific exchanges purely on the basis of disputes, even very serious ones, between our government and the governments of those scientists. Has this policy changed?I have received alarming reports from American scientists about the great difficulty of hosting top-level scientific conferences in the United States because of the barriers to entry placed upon non-American scientists seeking to participate. In fact, one Nobel Prize winner recently told me that many top level conferences would likely be moved outside of the United States because of these difficulties. At a time when America is focused on competitiveness and our need to maintain our leadership position in science, math and engineering, this cannot be a positive development for America. I have raised this issue repeatedly with both the Department of Homeland Security and Department of State and have been reassured that efforts were underway to solve these problems. Does the attached report of the Mercury News indicate that those efforts have failed?I look forward to your response to the following questions no later than Friday, August 11, 2006:What was the initial U.S. State Department policy on the approval or denial of visas for individuals applying for the Sharif University of Technology Association (SUTA) earthquake conference at the Hyatt Regency Santa Clara? Was the policy changed? If so, when and why? Were visas for individuals turned away at ports of entry revoked or were they denied entry for other reasons without visa revocations? Did the decision to deny entry mean that the original visa decisions made by the Department of State were insufficient? If so, what were the deficiencies? If not, why were these individuals denied entry? How many people had their visas revoked? How many were denied entry for other reasons without visa revocations? What were the reasons for the visa revocations and/or denial of entry for other reasons? Why were visas still being granted when others were being revoked and/or individuals were being turned away at ports of entry for attendance at the SUTA conference? How many Iranians applied for visas to attend the SUTA conference in Santa Clara? How many were granted visas for the SUTA conference? How long was each of those turned away at ports of entry held in detention before being returned? Under what conditions were they held? What facilities were they in? Were they handcuffed? Were they in jail-like cells? Did they have access to food and health care? Were they free to make phone calls and speak to attorneys and family? Were children held in the same facilities as adults? Were they held in separate facilities with their families or were they separated from family? Were children provided different services and care while being detained? Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren
07.28.2006	Team Up for Energy Independence Act Promotes Alternatively Fueled VehiclesMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov July 28, 2006 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today introduced H.R. 5959, the TEAM (To Encourage Alternatively fueled vehicle Manufacturing) Up for Energy Independence Act of 2006, which will encourage the production of alternatively fueled vehicles by phasing in a tax penalty on the manufacture or import of new, non-flex fuel cars, light trucks, and SUVs. “This summer’s record heat and record gas prices have people rightly concerned about global warming and our country’s oil consumption. My bill would be a step to help combat climate change and promote energy independence by encouraging the development and distribution of alternatively fueled vehicles.”H.R. 5959 phases in a tax penalty on the manufacture or import of new, non-flex fuel vehicles. Any revenues generated by this tax will then be used to help independent gas station owners install alternative fuel equipment. Since the cost of producing flex fuel vehicles is minimal at the time of manufacturing, these tax penalties can be easily avoided and will provide a needed incentive to move this emerging alternative energy technology forward.“Currently, there are only 6 million flex fuel capable cars on the road and only about 500 fueling stations that provide alternative fuel across the country — with just 4 stations in California. We must do more to make flex fuel vehicles practical and accessible to everyone,” Rep. Lofgren continued. “H.R. 5959 is a good first step towards securing our energy independence, and I hope that Congress will move quickly to pass my important legislation and help America move towards a more secure and sustainable future.”
07.24.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today proudly announced the passage of S. 203 in the House, containing a measure that provides $25 million in federal funds to alleviate perchlorate groundwater contamination in Santa Clara County.“I am pleased that my colleagues in the House recognized the need to clean up our county’s groundwater contaminated by perchlorate,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Santa Clara County residents, especially those in the most heavily impacted South County area, have relayed to me over the years their concern about perchlorate contamination. I hope that this funding, which will flow to the Santa Clara County Water District for remediation efforts, will help move us towards a solution to the contamination problem.”Today the House amended the Senate-passed National Heritage Areas Act (S. 203) to include additional provisions, including assistance for California in the cleanup of contamination in groundwater caused by perchlorate. This measure establishes the California Basins Groundwater Remediation Fund to provide up to $25 million in federal funds to alleviate perchlorate groundwater contamination in Santa Clara County. The Interior Department will use funds in the account and interest to provide grants to the Santa Clara Valley Water District for the federal share of projects to restore groundwater quality.
07.18.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following response to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales’s testimony today that President Bush personally blocked Justice Department lawyers in the Office of Professional Responsibility from pursuing an internal probe of the warrantless domestic surveillance program:“I am shocked that it was the President himself who blocked investigations into the domestic surveillance program he put into place. The President’s latest actions shows that he is willing to be personally involved in the cover up of suspected illegal activity at the NSA and leads me to question even more what he is hiding. It is clear from this action that President Bush believes his executive power overrides law.”In December 2005, Rep. Lofgren led Members of Congress in calling for the Inspector General (IG) of the Department of Justice to investigate the NSA warrentless domestic surveillance program. The Justice Department’s IG refused and referred the investigation to their Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR). This May, Rep. Lofgren was informed by the Department of Justice that their OPR could not investigate because they were unable to acquire security clearances.
07.04.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govCongresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) claimed another win in the Campus Community Association’s annual Fourth of July Bake-Off Contest, where her Cold Raspberry Souffl_ took home first prize. The winning recipe:Cold Raspberry Souffl_Ingredients:2 envelopes unflavored gelatin_ cup fresh lemon juice8 eggs, separated1 cup sugar1 cup pureed fresh raspberries4 tablespoons cassis2 cups heavy creamDirections:Prepare a 2-quart souffl_ dish with a wax paper collar extending 2 to 3 inches above the rim of dish. Tape into place. Oil dish and paper. Soften gelatin in lemon juice and heat over a low flame until dissolved and clear. Beat egg yolks with sugar until light and fluffy. Mix pureed raspberries with cassis and add to egg yolk mixture, then add gelatin. Cook over hot water until thickened. Cool. Beat egg whites until stiff peaks form, then whip heavy cream until stiff. Gently fold egg whites into raspberry mixture, then fold in whipped cream. Pour into souffl_ dish and chill thoroughly. Remove paper collar before serving.
07.01.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072,kyra.jennings@mail.house.govU.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Mike Honda (CA-15) today held a Citizenship Orientation and Resource Fair to help eligible legal permanent residents of San Jose begin the citizenship process. The event was held in recognition of National Citizenship Day, a coordinated effort of citizenship workshops across the country to help immigrants become American citizens. “I am delighted to see so many people excited and motivated to become American citizens,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Everyone here is joining in a shared commitment to the American values of liberty, democracy and equal opportunity. The immigrants who started on their citizenship path today are on a path of integration into American society and I wish them well on their journey.”“As the son of a proud immigrant family, it is an honor to join today with those seeking to become part of the American family,” said Rep. Honda. “This nation owes its strength and freedom to its diversity and immigrant heritage. By embarking on the naturalization process, those gathered here today have contributed immeasurably to America’s promise. I salute them.”At the event participants attended an orientation, providing a general overview of the citizenship process in four different languages. Immigration lawyers offered free initial screenings for citizenship eligibility and all eligible legal permanent residents were put in contact with local agencies to help them complete their naturalization application packets. Community groups such as Services, Immigration Rights and Education Network (SIREN), Center for Employment Training (CET), Catholic Charities, and Legal Aid Society, as well as representatives from the SCC Office of Human Relations, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and the Mexican Consulate were on hand to answer participant questions.
06.29.2006	Provision to Hold War Profiteering Companies Accountable Added to Appropriations BillMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govReps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Brian Baird (D-WA) efforts to ensure contractors in Iraq suspected of defrauding the government are being held accountable met with success when this amendment was incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2007 Science, State, Justice, Commerce (SSJC) bill that passed the House and will now go to the Senate for approval. “The Iraq war should not provide an opportunity for corporations to be free to rip off Iraqi money and property that the U.S. helps administer,” said Representative Lofgren. “U.S. companies like Halliburton, that do business and profit from the war in Iraq, should not be allowed to get away with fraud in their contracts without remedy. This amendment will bolster the False Claims Act to ensure that corporations may not engage in fraudulent war profiteering in Iraq, and I am pleased that the importance of this issue was recognized by this Congress.”The Baird/Lofgren amendment will update the False Claims Act, a law that allows whistleblowers to sue government contractors suspected of defrauding the government. An estimated 50 cases have been brought under the False Claims Act against Iraq contractors, including firms like Halliburton's subsidiary, Kellogg Brown and Root. However, a loophole in the False Claims Act that allows the Administration to stall the process has prevented pending Iraq contractor fraud cases from moving forward. As a result, some of these contractor fraud cases have been pending for more than two years. Before a fraud case can proceed, the Administration must decide within 60 days whether or not it wants to help try the case. However, the Justice Department can request indefinite extensions, prolonging a decision and preventing the fraud cases from ever being resolved. The Bush Administration has used this loophole to ban action against corporations accused of fraud. By refusing to make a decision in these Iraq fraud cases, the Administration has also kept the cases sealed. As a result, the scope of suspected fraud in Iraq contracts remains unknown officially, but has been reported by news organizations to be extensive. The Baird/Lofgren amendment would give the Administration only one six-month extension before it must decide whether or not to participate in the legal case. If no decision is made by the Administration within the six-month period, the case will be allowed to move forward. Reps. Lofgren and Baird originally introduced this anti-war profiteering provision in early May as stand-alone legislation (H.R. 5290, the Stop Fraud in Iraq Act). Lofgren and Baird worked together last year to secure an extension for the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR), Stuart Bowen, who serves as a critical watchdog over the billions of U.S. dollars allocated for Iraq reconstruction programs.
06.28.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Ranking Democratic Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment, today criticized Republican failures on illegal immigration during a border security hearing, one of the first immigration hearings planned across the country by the Republican Leadership. Below is Rep. Lofgren’s Subcommittee opening statement as submitted for the record:“While I am pleased that we are finally turning our attention today to the question of intelligence and border security, I must say Mr. Chairman, this hearing and the other hearings the Republican leadership has scheduled in the next few months are a day late and a dollar short. Correction — we are six years late and millions of dollars short.“President Bush took office in 2001. This Congress has been controlled by Republicans since 1995. The Senate, with one exception, has had a majority of Republicans since 1995. The Federal government, charged with making and enforcing the laws of this nation, have been under the sole control of Republicans for the last six years.“With complete control of legislation and enforcement of the law for six years, you would think that a party that now calls so vigorously for border security and enforcement of immigration law could have solved the problem of illegal immigration by now. “But, Mr. Chairman, the Republican Party seems to be all talk on this subject.“Here is just a partial list of the failures presided over by the Republican majority on illegal immigration:Since 1995 when the Senate and the House were taken over by the Republican Party, 5.3 million undocumented immigrants came to the United States. Since 2001 when President Bush came to power, over 2 million undocumented immigrants have entered the United States. In 2004, Congress enacted the Intelligence Reform Act (or the 9/11 Act), which mandated an additional 2,000 Border Patrol agents being hired over each of the next five years, but the President’s subsequent budgets and Congress have failed to include adequate resources to implement the Act. Indeed, the President's FY 2006 budget called for only 210 additional Border Patrol agents. In FY 2006, the Congress, with both House and Senate controlled by Republicans, eventually funded only 1,000 additional agents. The 9/11 Act also mandated an additional 800 immigration enforcement agents over each of the next five years. And yet, for FY 2006, the Congress funded only 350 additional agents. The Act also mandated an additional 8,000 detention beds, but for FY 2006, the Congress funded only 1,800 additional detention beds. President Bush and House Republicans continue to under-fund the Border Patrol. The President's FY 2007 budget does not fully fund the authorized levels for the Border Patrol. During the Bush Administration, “Catch and Release has become rampant, a program under which 12,000 undocumented immigrants each month are apprehended from countries other than Mexico are released and allowed to live in the United States while awaiting a deportation hearing. Yet, the Federal government which is completely controlled by Republicans, 70% of OTMs are released into the interior with notices to appear at a later date never to be heard of again. According to the Washington Post, between 1999 and 2003, work-site enforcement operations were scaled back 95% by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The number of employers prosecuted for unlawfully employing immigrants dropped from 182 in 1999 to only four in 2003, and fines collected declined from $3.6 million to $212,000. In 1999, the United States initiated fines against 417 companies. In 2004, it issued fine notices to only three. Next to nothing has been done to secure our Northern border at a time when 17 suspected terrorists were arrested in Toronto, there are reportedly 50 terrorist groups in Canada, the “Millennium Bomber” was arrested as he attempted to cross the Northern border with explosives, and the Congressional Research Service says that Canada is a “favored destination for terrorist groups [as] a safe haven, transit point and place to raise funds.” While the Republican leadership in Congress focuses on the Southern border with 10,000 Border Patrol agents stationed along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, only 1/10th that amount is on the Canadian border, a border that is 2.5 times as long as the Mexican border. Recent news stories state that people drive, walk, sail, ski, and sled across the Northern border all the time. On December 16, 2005, all 219 House Republicans voting that day opposed a proposal, the Democratic motion to recommit to H.R. 4437, to improve border security and immigration enforcement by fulfilling the 9/11 Commission's border security recommendations. The proposal would have hired more border agents, ended the "catch and release" practice by authorizing 100,000 additional detention beds and incorporated state-of-the art surveillance technology, including cameras, sensors, radar, satellites, and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in order to ensure 100% border coverage. [HR 4437 , Vote #660, 12/16/2005, 198-221] In 2005, of 227 House Republicans, 226 voted against a comprehensive Homeland Security Authorization proposal by Democrats that would commit $41 billion to securing the nation from terrorist threats - $6.9 billion more than the President's budget. The proposal contained $28.4 billion for border and transportation security, immigration processing, and other security functions — $4 billion more than the President's budget. [HR 1817, Vote #188, 5/18/2005, 199-228] In 2005, of 227 Republicans voting, 225 voted against an effort to add $284 million to an emergency spending bill for securing the nation's borders. The added funding would have hired 550 additional border patrol agents and 200 additional immigration investigators. Finally, the proposal would have provided funding for unmanned border aerial vehicles, which have been used successfully in a test in Arizona to assist in surveillance. [HR 1268, Vote #160, 5/5/2005, 201-225] “Mr. Chairman, there is a lot of tough talk these days about immigration, but the record of those promoting that talk on real action is poor. That’s been the pattern for a decade.“And it continues today. Just last week I was in a House Administration Committee meeting that began a series of Republican hearings on immigration. Today, we are having a hearing on intelligence and border security in this committee. On July 5th, we have been told that the House International Relations Subcommittee will hold a field hearing in San Diego on border vulnerabilities and international terrorism. On the same day, we are told that the Senate Republicans will also get involved with a hearing in Philadelphia. The hearing list continues:July 7th, the House International Relations Subcommittee on Terrorism and Nonproliferation will reportedly hold a field hearing in Laredo, TX on border vulnerabilities and international terrorism. Mid-July, the House Education and Workforce Committee may hold a hearing on making English the official language and how enforcement of immigration laws affects U.S. workers. August 14th, the House Government Reform Committee may hold a field hearing in Yuma, Arizona on the costs of an unsecured border to local, state, and federal governments. August, Rep. Hunter may convene hearings on the National Guard use for border security. “This looks like a political effort, not a serious government effort. And these hearings are all talk and no action. “It seems to me that this hearing on border intelligence is just another in the long list of hearings held and planned by this Republican-led Congress that lead to absolutely no solutions to a problem the American public cares about.”
06.18.2006	Media Contact: Christine Glunz, 202.225.3072Washington, DC — The California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD) announced today that U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) was elected to succeed U.S. Rep. Sam Farr (D-Carmel) as Chair. Lofgren was elected this afternoon as members of the delegation gathered for their weekly meeting on Capitol Hill. “It has been an honor to serve as the Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation these last five years,” said U.S. Rep. Sam Farr. “I have chosen to step down from the chairmanship because I have decided to shift my energies to my work as Co-Chair of the House Oceans Caucus, which is working on major legislation to preserve, protect and revive our nation’s oceans. It is fitting that the chairmanship will be taken by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, since the California Democratic Congressional delegation is the first majority woman delegation. Zoe has been a leader in the Congress on so many issues, and I look forward to working with her on the issues that unite us as a delegation - fairness to Californians who were overcharged during the energy crisis, protecting our state’s natural environment, and preserving our state’s heritage for generations to come.”The California Democratic Congressional Delegation is an organization consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California. It provides members with information and analysis of national policy issues affecting the State of California. “Congressman Farr has led this delegation for the past five years and I want to thank him for his leadership and his continued commitment and dedication to the state of California,” Rep. Lofgren said. “I am honored to have been elected Chair and greatly appreciate the support from my colleagues. California has the largest and most diverse delegation in the House. I look forward to serving our state and working closely with every member of the delegation. Together we will fight for issues all Californians care about: affordable healthcare, quality education for our children, a cleaner environment and a growing economy with stable jobs.”“Sam Farr has done an outstanding job and great service to California in leading this delegation over the past five years and I know Zoe Lofgren will do an exceptional job as Chair,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “With her passion, experience and dedication to our state, she will bring forth issues important to all Californians. I look forward to working with her to promote the values of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation.” The CDCD supports the members in the performance of their official and representational duties. It outnumbers all other state House delegations - Republicans and Democrats combined. Texas is the next most populous state with a total of 32 House members.
06.15.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement today for the Congressional Record in opposition to H Res 861, the Republicans’ Iraq Resolution:“Mr. Speaker, when we made the decision to invade Iraq, I said this: ¥The President is asking us to pass this resolution now, but he has not yet made the case for war. I cannot support the President's request that we authorize military force against Iraq. I make this very difficult decision for three important reasons: The United States is not acting in self-defense or from an imminent threat from Iraq, the United States should not be pursuing unilateral action without international support, and the President has not stated an exit strategy. ¥I believe there are times when countries must resort to war, and indeed international law recognizes the rights of nations to defend themselves. I strongly support our campaign against terrorism. But are we voting this week on a case of self-defense? It would certainly be self-defense if Iraq supported the Al Qaeda attack on September 11, but the evidence of such support is lacking. ¥I have listened to the administration and met with top officials. I have yet to see any credible evidence that Iraq is connected with Al Qaeda. The experts readily admit that there is no real connection. ¥I can believe that Iraq is a threat to the region and to some American interests overseas, but I do not believe the threat is imminent or must be handled with a unilateral military strike. ¥This resolution is an unwise step for America that will in the end weaken America.’“How unsatisfactory are the words ¥I told you so’?“We invaded Iraq even though it was not involved with Al Qaeda and, when we diverted our gaze from the War on Terror, we let Osama Bin Laden get away. Now his organization has metastasized so that his capture would no longer be the disruptive blow to Al Qaeda that it could have been then. Our soldiers have served bravely, but their courage has not been matched by adequate leadership by the brass starting with the Commander in Chief. The problems that face us now in Iraq are not primarily military ones but we are expecting our military to accomplish them anyway.“This entire venture was a mistake, but the question is what do we do now? I think the answer is that it’s time for the Iraqi’s to take responsibility for their own country. Our American soldiers signed up to defend America. Let the Iraqi’s do the same for their country.“We have spent American lives and treasure in Iraq. It is now the obligation of the Commander in Chief to present a strategy for a successful completion of American activities there so that our troops can be removed from Iraq as soon as is practicable. “Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result is the definition of insanity. It is time for leadership from the Commander in Chief that is more than ¥stay the course’ and more of the same.“The war in Iraq is not the war on terror and never has been. I voted to authorize the use of force in Afghanistan because it was necessary that we disrupt that terrorist hotbed that had helped breed the terrorists who attacked us on September 11th. Now even that necessary endeavor in Afghanistan is faltering because of the diversion into Iraq.“If we are to win the war on terror, we must focus our efforts on the terrorists and not on Iraq. We are spending $8 billion or more a month in Iraq. Instead, we need to utilize those funds effectively in the fight against terrorists and also to protect the United States from the potential of terrorist attacks.“We have other threats around the world and have, tragically, damaged our military readiness to face them through our miscalculations in Iraq. To maintain the strong military might that America needs, we need to bring the Iraq misadventure to an end as soon as is practical.”
06.15.2006	Plan for Guadalupe River Flood Protection among Flood Protection Projects FundedMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govReps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Mike Honda (CA-15) have secured almost $8 million for local flood control and water restoration projects in the House version of the FY07 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The bill recently passed the House of Representative by a vote of 404:20, and will now go to the Senate for consideration.“These water and flood protection projects are critically important to keeping our area residents safe and their property secure,” said Rep. Lofgren. “While the funding provided in this appropriations bill is a first step, we have a long way to go to in funding water projects in the South Bay Area.”“I am very proud that we were able to successfully secure these resources, which are needed to help protect our Silicon Valley families, homes and businesses from the continuing threat of severe flooding that has caused so much damage over the past several years,” said Rep. Honda. “I am hopeful that we can work with our Senators as the appropriations bill moves forward to make sure that we commit adequate funding to protect the San Francisco Bay shoreline as well.”The funding granted to the San Jose area includes:ˆ Guadalupe River Flood Protection Plan: $6.7 million. This funding will allow construction of this project to continue, which will protect the commercial and residential interests in downtown San Jose and improve the quality of the Guadalupe River. ˆ San Jose Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project: $495,000. This funding will help meet the need for recycled water in Silicon Valley and ensure the quality of wetlands in the South Bay. ˆ San Francisquito Creek Watershed Study: $225,000. This project examines possible flood protection in portions of the Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties including Palo Alto. ˆ Upper Penitencia Creek Flood Protection Plans: $319,000. The project will provide flood protection to over 4,000 homes in Santa Clara County in conjunction with the Santa Clara Valley Water District. ˆ Llagas Creek Flood Protection Project: $250,000. This funding will be used to continue the planning, design, and preconstruction of channel improvements and a diversion channel in Southern Santa Clara County that will protect the community from over $8 million in possible flood damage. In addition to these local San Jose projects, Reps. Lofgren and Honda joined with their Bay Area colleagues to support funding for the California Bay Delta Restoration Program. This regional project received $40 million, which will help support the collaborative effort by more than twenty federal and state agencies to improve the health of the Bay-Delta watershed ecosystem.
06.14.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govToday, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced her support for the Democratic domestic proposal, a New Direction for America, that provides opportunity, security and prosperity for all Americans.“Lavish tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, fiscal irresponsibility and Congressional Republicans “pay-for-play” culture have steered our nation in the wrong direction. Meanwhile, Americans are struggling to pay rising gas prices at the pump, send their children to college, and afford quality health care,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Democrats are prepared to take the country in a new direction with proposals that address the real priorities of the American people. Instead of an agenda that favors the special interests, I support this new direction which puts the common good of all Americans first.”Rep. Lofgren and Democrats in Congress offer a New Direction, putting the common good of all Americans first for a change, and will:MAKE HEALTH CARE MORE AFFORDABLE: Put people ahead of HMOs and insurance companies; invest in stem cell and other medical research. LOWER GAS PRICES AND ACHIEVE ENERGY INDEPENDENCE: Crack down on price gouging; eliminate billions in subsidies for oil and gas companies and use the savings to provide consumer relief and develop American alternatives, including biofuels; promote energy efficient technology. HELP WORKING FAMILIES: Raise the minimum wage; end tax incentives for offshoring jobs. MAKE COLLEGE MORE AFFORDABLE: Make college tuition deductible from taxes; expand Pell grants and cut student loan costs. ENSURE DIGNIFIED RETIREMENT: Prevent the privatization of Social Security; expand savings incentives; ensure pension fairness. REQUIRE FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY: Restore the budget discipline of the 1990s that helped eliminate deficits and spur record economic growth. To view the House Democrats’ full New Direction Agenda, visit: http://www.housedemocrats.gov/.
06.14.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) secured $1.3 million for local transportation, housing and community projects in the House version of the FY07 Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The bill passed the House of Representative today by a vote of 406:22 and will now go to the Senate for consideration.“Projects such as expanding the Children’s Discovery Museum, helping first-time homebuyers, or making our roads more pedestrian friendly are important to our community and will affect many people’s daily lives,” said Rep. Lofgren. “I am pleased to secure federal funding for these programs and improvements.”San Jose projects Rep. Lofgren secured funding for include:Almaden Expressway Pedestrian Improvement Project: $300,000. This funding will go towards making the Almaden Expressway more pedestrian friendly, making improvements in pedestrian crossings at several locations along the busy residential and commercial stretch of this Expressway. Blossom Hill/Monterey Grade Crossing: $200,000. This funding will support the creation of a safe pedestrian cross over railroad tracks and Monterey Highway. The tracks and four-lane highway now divide a rapidly growing residential and commercial area. Several local residents have been injured or killed trying to cross in this area, including the tragic case of 2-year-old Alexander Arriaga last year. First-Time Homebuyer Assistance Program: $300,000. This funding will help the Housing Trust of Santa Clara County fund a program to provide interest free closing cost loans to low and moderate income households for their first home purchased in the county. East Wing Expansion-Guadalupe River and Silicon Valley History Project: $100,000. This funding will allow the Children’s Discovery Museum of San Jose (CDM) to build a 30,000 square foot outdoor exhibit gallery exhibiting the cultures along the Guadalupe River and a “green building” expansion to the museum. San Jose International Airport Runway Guard Lights: $400,000. This funding will complete design and replacement of the runway guard lights at the San Jose International Airport as part of the airport’s Master Plan for expansion.
06.09.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govYesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5252, the COPE Act by 321:101, while voting down the Markey amendment -- which would have protected net neutrality -- by a vote of 152:269. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) spoke in favor of net neutrality provisions on the House floor, and offered the following statement criticizing last night’s vote:“I am extremely disappointed that the House voted for the COPE Act without any essential net neutrality protection. By blocking the Markey Amendment, the Republican Congress has allowed ¥the pipes’ to control content in a way that goes directly against the level playing field and innovative spirit created by the Internet,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Because no net neutrality provisions were adopted, the broadband duopolies and monopolies will be able to turn the Internet into the equivalent of cable television. I hope the U.S. Senate will stand up for freedom and, unlike the House, insist on net neutrality to save the Internet as we know it.”Rep. Lofgren helped to lead the net neutrality fight in the House, and introduced H.R. 5417 in the House Judiciary Committee with Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), and Reps. John Conyers (D-MI) and Rick Boucher (D-VA). This bill would amend the Clayton Act to protect net neutrality under existing antitrust laws. The House Rules Committee voted against allowing this bipartisan legislation to be debated on the floor as an amendment to the COPE Act.
06.08.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives during a debate on HR 5252, the COPE Act. Lofgren spoke in favor of Rep. Ed Markey’s (D-MA) amendment protecting net neutrality and in opposition to Rep. Lamar Smith’s (R-TX) amendment that contains no real net neutrality enforcement provisions.Below are Rep. Lofgren’s remarks for a portion of this debate:“I rise in opposition to Lamar Smith’s amendment, because it does nothing. The COPE Act only amends the Communications Act, not the Clayton or Sherman Acts. Whether or not we pass Smith’s amendment, the current antitrust laws would continue to operate as before. The amendment neither creates new net neutrality protections, nor takes them away. It is superfluous.“The 1996 Telecommunications Act contained a similar antitrust savings clause. But nonetheless, in the 2004 Trinko decision the Supreme Court held there were no antitrust remedies for anticompetitive conduct in areas regulated by the Telecommunications Act. The Trinko decision means that the Telecommunications Act’s antitrust savings clause neither added new antitrust protections nor took them away. Given that precedent, Rep. Smith’s amendment changes nothing in the existing law, and does nothing to protect net neutrality.“The whole issue is how the antitrust act applies. The Judiciary Committee reported out by a vote of 20 to 13 a bill introduced by Reps. Sensenbrenner and Conyers that actually did provide antitrust remedies for these antitrust provisions. Inexplicably, the real amendment that the Chairman of the Committee and the Ranking Member crafted and that won a majority of bipartisan support on the committee to be reported out was not made in order for us to discuss today. Instead this phony amendment was made in order.“I’d like to say something else about this regulation rhetoric. Antitrust law is not regulation. It sets the standard for what monopolies can’t do. It is not a regulatory approach; it is a set of laws that keeps monopolies from squeezing the little guys. And that is what’s going to happen if we don’t get real net neutrality in this bill.“Mr. Markey’s amendment was put in order. We can vote for that and I hope it does pass, but if it does not, we will end up with the duopolies or the monopolies turning the internet into a kind of cable television outfit.“When the public finds out what we are doing to their Internet, this dome is going to collapse with the uproar they create. Members who have been here a long time remember the vote they took that allowed cable TV rates to go through the roof. That uproar is going to be nothing compared to what you will hear if this measure goes forward.”
06.08.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives during a debate on HR 5252, the COPE Act. Lofgren spoke in favor of Rep. Ed Markey’s (D-MA) amendment protecting net neutrality and in opposition to Rep. Lamar Smith’s (R-TX) amendment that contains no real net neutrality enforcement provisions.Below are Rep. Lofgren’s remarks for a portion of this debate:“I rise in opposition to Lamar Smith’s amendment, because it does nothing. The COPE Act only amends the Communications Act, not the Clayton or Sherman Acts. Whether or not we pass Smith’s amendment, the current antitrust laws would continue to operate as before. The amendment neither creates new net neutrality protections, nor takes them away. It is superfluous.“The 1996 Telecommunications Act contained a similar antitrust savings clause. But nonetheless, in the 2004 Trinko decision the Supreme Court held there were no antitrust remedies for anticompetitive conduct in areas regulated by the Telecommunications Act. The Trinko decision means that the Telecommunications Act’s antitrust savings clause neither added new antitrust protections nor took them away. Given that precedent, Rep. Smith’s amendment changes nothing in the existing law, and does nothing to protect net neutrality.“The whole issue is how the antitrust act applies. The Judiciary Committee reported out by a vote of 20 to 13 a bill introduced by Reps. Sensenbrenner and Conyers that actually did provide antitrust remedies for these antitrust provisions. Inexplicably, the real amendment that the Chairman of the Committee and the Ranking Member crafted and that won a majority of bipartisan support on the committee to be reported out was not made in order for us to discuss today. Instead this phony amendment was made in order.“I’d like to say something else about this regulation rhetoric. Antitrust law is not regulation. It sets the standard for what monopolies can’t do. It is not a regulatory approach; it is a set of laws that keeps monopolies from squeezing the little guys. And that is what’s going to happen if we don’t get real net neutrality in this bill.“Mr. Markey’s amendment was put in order. We can vote for that and I hope it does pass, but if it does not, we will end up with the duopolies or the monopolies turning the internet into a kind of cable television outfit.“When the public finds out what we are doing to their Internet, this dome is going to collapse with the uproar they create. Members who have been here a long time remember the vote they took that allowed cable TV rates to go through the roof. That uproar is going to be nothing compared to what you will hear if this measure goes forward.”
06.07.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren was honored by NETWORK, a National Catholic Social Justice Lobbying, for her 100% voting record during the First Session of the 109th Congress. NETWORK used eight important votes, including the Real ID Act and Budget Reconciliation, when determining each Member’s voting record score.“I think it is my responsibility as a Member of Congress to fight for just policies and efforts that help both ordinary Americans and the less fortunate,” said Rep. Lofgren. “I thank NETWORK for this honor and their own work on these issues, and I pledge my continued commitment to fighting for social and economic justice in our country.”
06.06.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govTechNet, a bipartisan political network of CEOs that promotes the growth of the innovation economy, today announced that Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) is the recipient of their 2006 Founders Circle Award. Rep. Lofgren was also awarded TechNet’s Founders Circle Award in 2000, the first year it was given.“I am honored to accept this year’s Founders Circle Award, and especially proud to be receiving it for the second time,” said Rep. Lofgren. “As America struggles to compete in a global economy, we must focus on innovation in our technology sector to keep us on top. I will continue my commitment to technological advancement, as I helped outline in the House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda, and I applaud TechNet for their leadership on this crucial issue.”Every year, TechNet selects one member of each political party in the House and Senate to receive this award. Other winners announced today are Senators George Allen (R-VA) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) and Rep. David Dreier (D-CA). Recipients were chosen by TechNet’s nearly 200 member companies for their steadfast support of the organization’s policy agenda during the past year. Rep. Lofgren will be presented with the award this week during the organization’s annual “TechNet Day” trip to Washington D.C.
05.25.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govToday the House Judiciary Committee voted to send H.R. 5417, the “Internet Freedom and Nondiscrimination Act of 2006” to the full House of Representatives for debate. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) joined with House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI) Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Rick Boucher (D-VA) to introduce this bipartisan legislation last week. The bill would ensure nondiscriminatory access to the Internet for all users.“I am pleased that my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee showed their commitment to protecting Internet freedom with today’s vote. H.R. 5417 protects net neutrality and protects the level playing field created by Internet technology. I hope all Members of Congress will protect net neutrality and reject an Information Superhighway hijacking when this bill comes to the floor,” said Rep. Lofgren.The “Internet Freedom and Nondiscrimination Act” would amend the Clayton Act to prohibit broadband network providers from interfering with the ability of users to access the Internet content, applications and services of their choice or the ability of independent content, application and service providers to reach consumers with the same speed and quality of service as the network provider or its business partners or licensees. It would also require network providers, if they prioritize or offer enhanced quality of service to a particular type of content, to prioritize or offer enhanced quality of service to all content of that type on a nondiscriminatory basis.
05.18.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Rick Boucher (D-VA) joined with House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) today in introducing HR 5417, the “Internet Freedom and Nondiscrimination Act of 2006.” This bipartisan measure would ensure competitive and nondiscriminatory access to the Internet.“Our net neutrality legislation protects the communications freedom and innovation created by the Internet, instead of allowing the equivalent of an Internet toll road.” said Rep. Lofgren. “The Internet has revolutionized the way Americans communicate with one another and do business. It's just common sense to keep that revolution where it belongs--in the hands of ordinary individuals instead of a handful of big corporations. Our bill will prevent an Information Superhighway Hijacking.”“The Internet has flourished as an open medium where users can access any lawful content, applications and services, using any devices. The measure which we are introducing will assure that the status quo is preserved and that the market power broadband providers now exercise over transmission is not extended to control of content,” Rep. Boucher said. “This measure is particularly important and timely because H.R. 5252, the Energy and Commerce Committee video franchising measure, is insufficient to ensure that broadband network providers do not abuse their market power to discriminate against competitive Internet content or services. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee to enact bipartisan legislation which will preserve the Internet as we know it.”The “Internet Freedom and Nondiscrimination Act” would amend the Clayton Act to prohibit broadband network providers from interfering with the ability of users to access the Internet content, applications and services of their choice or the ability of independent content, application and service providers to reach consumers with the same speed and quality of service as the network provider. It would also require network providers, if they prioritize or offer enhanced quality of service to a particular type of content, to prioritize or offer enhanced quality of service to all content of that type at no charge.
05.16.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced that the Billy DeFrank LGBT Community Center received a commendation from her for their 25 year history, devotion and service to San Jose’s LGBT community. “I am proud to offer this commendation to the Billy DeFrank LGBT Community Center and recognize the support and resources they offer to hundreds of people every week,” said Lofgren. “The DeFrank Center has been a valuable part of our community for a quarter-century and I know they will continue to address the needs and rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender people in San Jose.”An excerpt from the text of the commendation reads: “Whereas, it has provided invaluable leadership and support services for thousands of LGBT adults, youth, seniors and families; Now, therefore, let it be resolved that Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren does hereby honor and commend the Billy DeFrank LGBT Community Center on this Twenty-Ninth Day of April, 2006.”“Congresswoman Lofgren has always been an incredible ally to the LGBT community and we deeply appreciate her support and commendation,” said Aejaie Sellers, the DeFrank Center’s executive director. “Her efforts at the national level will ensure that one day who you love will not determine the rights you are entitled to.”Founded in 1981, the Billy DeFrank LGBT Community Center addresses the needs and rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender people of all ages and backgrounds in Silicon Valley. The DeFrank Center provides a broad range of wellness, social and recreational activities, and emotional support services to approximately 400 visitors each week. The DeFrank Center is a 501(c)3, federally registered, tax-exempt organization, and receives over 21,000 contacts and requests for service a year (either in-person, via phone or on-line). To learn more, visit www.defrank.org.
05.15.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced today that her nomination of Shaan Yadav-Ranjan, a resident of San Jose and student at Leland High School, as a Congressional Page for the 2006 Summer Session was approved by the House leadership. Yadav-Ranjan will act as a messenger for the House of Representatives and gain first hand knowledge of the legislative process at the national level. He will be working as a page for the month of July.“I am extremely excited to be able to offer Shaan this opportunity,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Shaan demonstrated his diligence and eagerness when he worked in my San Jose office as an intern, and I know he will represent San Jose well in our Nation’s Capitol. Myself and my entire staff look forward to working with him in the House this summer.”Yadav-Ranjan has been a Commissioner of the Santa Clara County Youth Task Force for the last 4 years. In this position he represents over 42,000 youth, and has spoken on youth issues before the Human Relations Commission and presented workshops to middle school students on service learning. At Leland high school he is on the Varsity Debate and Football teams.
05.11.2006	Members, led by Rep. Lofgren, Renew Call for Special Counsel in Light of New InformationMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) spearheaded a letter sent today by 54 Members of Congress to President Bush renewing their call for the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate all domestic surveillance programs conducted by the National Security Agency.Below is the text of the letter:May 11, 2006The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush:Recent reports state that the NSA’s domestic surveillance of Americans is much more expansive than you previously stated. You said that the NSA surveillance program only targets international communications between Americans and suspected members of al Qaeda. Now we learn the NSA routinely collects the call records of tens of millions of Americans from telecommunications companies collectively serving more than 200 million Americans. These reports also suggest that the NSA has equipment on AT&T’s network to monitor all Internet data passing over it. If true, these reports are truly shocking. We urge you once again to direct the appointment of a Special Counsel fully empowered to investigate the NSA’s domestic surveillance programs and report its findings to Congress.It is time the American public and the Congress had more than press reports to establish the facts about NSA’s domestic surveillance programs. Several Members of Congress wrote to you nearly three months ago asking for the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate the NSA’s surveillance of Americans. We still have not received your response.Every practical avenue for investigation has been stymied based on the feeblest of excuses. When Members of Congress wrote to the Inspector Generals of the Justice and Defense Departments, they refused to investigate. The Justice Department handed the matter to its Office of Professional Responsibility for an investigation of professional legal misconduct, and then denied security clearances to its own investigators. The Defense Department handed the matter to NSA’s Inspector General, who never responded and who approved the eavesdropping at issue. The Government Accountability Office refused to investigate, anticipating you would block access to records by designating them foreign intelligence or counterintelligence materials. While the House and Senate Judiciary Committees have held hearings, they have not issued a single subpoena for witnesses or documentary evidence. Instead of investigation, all that emerges is a pattern of resisting investigation into the facts that Congress and the public deserve.Given the Attorney General’s authorization of domestic eavesdropping by the NSA and his highly public defense of it, a Special Counsel is needed to avoid any conflict of interest in investigating the NSA programs. The Attorney General’s recent testimony in the House Judiciary Committee suggests he has much to hide. The Attorney General acknowledged under oath that the Deputy Attorney General initially disapproved of an NSA eavesdropping program separate from the warrantless eavesdropping you described on international communications with al Qaeda members. But the Attorney General refused to tell the House Judiciary Committee anything about that separate NSA eavesdropping program. If the news reports cited above are true, the Attorney General also provided highly misleading testimony when asked whether the NSA was eavesdropping on calls entirely within the United States.Without a complete and impartial investigation of the facts, Members of Congress are robbed of their Article I oversight responsibilities under the Constitution. The American public is robbed of its ability to hold Article II officials accountable for their conduct. While we appreciate the need to safeguard sensitive classified information, existing legal protections for handling of classified information would allow an investigation to proceed without compromising national security.Mr. President, both our Constitutional duties and yours are to protect the security of the nation from terrorist threats and to protect and uphold the laws of our nation. The NSA’s domestic eavesdropping programs may fail in both. Without a thorough investigation into the facts, we can simply never know. We urge you once again to direct the appointment of a Special Counsel fully empowered to investigate the NSA’s domestic eavesdropping programs and report its findings to Congress.Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenGary AckermanJoe BacaBrian BairdHoward BermanRick BoucherRobert BradySherrod BrownJulia CarsonLois CappsWilliam ClayJohn ConyersSusan DavisPeter DeFazioWilliam DeLahuntRosa DeLauroJohn DingellLloyd DoggettEliot EngelSam FarrRa"l M. GrijalvaMaurice HincheyRush HoltMike HondaJay InsleeJim LangevinTom LantosBarbara LeeJohn LewisStephen LynchCarolyn MaloneyDoris MatsuiMarty MeehanBetty McCollumJim McGovernJerrold NadlerEd PastorCollin PetersonDavid PriceJohn SalazarLinda SanchezLoretta SanchezAdam SmithHilda SolisPete StarkBart StupakEllen TauscherBennie ThompsonMike ThompsonMark UdallPeter ViscloskyDebbie Wasserman SchultzMaxine WatersDianne WatsonRobert Wexler
05.11.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.goRep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment Subcommittee, today offered the following statements on new reports that the National Security Agency (NSA) is secretly collecting the phone call records of tens of millions of Americans:“I am appalled to learn through press reports, instead of a direct communication to Congress from the intelligence community, that the NSA has been collecting the personal phone records of Americans,” said Rep. Thompson. “As with the Dubai port issue, Congress should have been informed well before the story hit the newsstands. We here in Congress must take action to protect the privacy of all Americans. We cannot continue to give the Bush Administration a free pass to spy on Americans without cause under the guise of national security.”“The Bush Administration has stonewalled Congress when we attempted to discharge our obligation to provide oversight of these NSA surveillance programs. Now we learn from the press that the federal government is keeping track of every phone call made by every American,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This is a massive invasion of privacy and it is hard to imagine how this massive database would even be useful in the fight against Osama Bin Laden, who is still at large. Further, when the Attorney General was forced to testify before the House Judiciary Committee a few weeks ago, he misled the Committee about the existence of the program. The Bush administration apparently believes that they are above the law and that they are not accountable to either the Courts or to the Congress.”In light of this new information, Rep. Lofgren is spearheading an effort to send a second letter to President Bush signed by Members of Congress renewing calls for a Special Counsel to be appointed to investigate the NSA surveillance activity.
05.11.2006	Legislation Forces President's Entire Domestic Surveillance Program to Comply with the LawMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) joined a group of House Judiciary and Intelligence Committee Members today to introduce the “Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA” Act (The LISTEN Act).“The Administration's strained analysis claiming these warrantless NSA programs are legal has been ridiculed by legal scholars as well as the Congressional Research Service. Their claim that Congress authorized these programs when authorizing the use of force in Afghanistan is equally ridiculous. This act will put those spurious claims to rest permanently,” said Rep. Lofgren.The Act makes clear that any attempt to listen in on Americans or collect telephone or e-mail records must be conducted in accordance with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA), or Title III of the criminal code. In both cases, court warrants based on probable cause are required. The Act states that FISA is the exclusive way to conduct electronic surveillance of U.S. persons on U.S. soil for intelligence purposes. It also states and that the Authorization to Use Military Force, passed by Congress in October 2002, did not constitute authority to engage in electronic surveillance outside of FISA. The legislation provides tools to expedite emergency warrant applications, and authorizes funds to incorporate standardization, electronic filing and streamlined review procedures at the NSA and Department of Justice. It requires the President to ensure that resources are adequate to process warrants, and requires the Administration to comply with FISA at all times.
05.11.2006	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment, today sent the following letter regarding Subcommittee oversight of the NSA’s warrentless surveillance programs:Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govThe Honorable Robert SimmonsChairmanSubcommittee on Intelligence,Information Sharing, and TerrorismRisk AssessmentDear Chairman Simmons:Thank you again for inviting Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, National Security Agency (NSA) Director Lieutenant General Keith B. Alexander, and Department of Homeland Security Chief Intelligence Officer Charles Allen to the continued hearing yesterday on privacy and the Department’s intelligence enterprise.We share your disappointment that none of the witnesses accepted your invitation, and appreciate your promise to secure their attendance in the near future. The shocking revelation today about the NSA’s collection and storing of the phone calls records of millions of American citizens only underscores our need to hear from these witnesses as soon as possible. As we both agree, our Subcommittee should closely examine whether the Department of Homeland Security is effectively applying privacy and civil liberties protections as part of its intelligence enterprise in order to avoid precisely this type of situation. Please keep us informed about your progress in getting the witnesses to a new hearing and let us know how we can help, if at all. We look forward to hearing from you.Sincerely,Bennie G. ThompsonRanking MemberZoe LofgrenRanking MemberSubcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessmentcc: Alberto Gonzalez, Attorney General Lieutenant General Keith B. Alexander Charles Allen, Chief Intelligence Officer***Transcript for Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment Hearing on Privacy Protection in DHSCongressional Hearing Transcript May 10, 2006 SIMMONS: The Homeland Security Committee's Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment will come to order.We're meeting today at the request of the minority members of the subcommittee under House Rule 11 to receive testimony from a witness of the minority's choosing for one additional day on the subject of protection of privacy in the Department of Homeland Security intelligence enterprise. The majority extended invitations to every witness that the minority requested, and I personally called the primary witness, Dean Parker, to secure her testimony for today. Unfortunately, none of the minority witnesses were available to attend. But, as I've expressed to my friend and colleague from California, I will continue in this effort. LOFGREN: Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that offer of collaboration. And as we discussed briefly early today, Dean Parker has not been able to attend. And I think, since she doesn't have current knowledge, we will continue to pursue the other three witnesses which you have written to. And I look forward to working with you in securing their attendance and learning what we can. So, at this point, I would concur that this hearing ought to be called to a halt -- or gavelled to a halt. And we will see either those three witnesses or their representatives who can speak knowledgeably for them at a future date. And I thank you for your courtesy. SIMMONS: I thank the ranking member for her comments. I concur in her assessment of the situation.Having no witnesses, the subcommittee stands adjourned.
05.10.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.goRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) echoed Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and more than 200 seniors today who held an event calling for an extension of the enrollment deadline for the Medicare prescription drug program.“It is simply unfair to impose the May 15th deadline and the minimum lifetime penalty of 7 percent when there are millions of eligible beneficiaries who have still not signed up for a plan,” said Rep. Lofgren. “California’s seniors should be given the time to make an informed decision without this stiff lifetime penalty, especially given the confusing nature and botched rollout of the Medicare Part D program.”With the enrollment period for the Medicare prescription drug plan set to expire next Monday, May 15, California’s seniors run the risk of paying the price for the confusing and complicated program. At the event, Democrats again called on Republicans to extend the deadline and avoid punishing seniors for mistakes made by the White House and Republican led Congress.Lofgren is also co-sponsor of H.R. 3861, the Medicare Informed Choice Act. This bill would ease the implementation of the new Medicare prescription drug program and extend the enrollment period through December 31, 2006.
05.10.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) echoed Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and more than 200 seniors today who held an event calling for an extension of the enrollment deadline for the Medicare prescription drug program.“It is simply unfair to impose the May 15th deadline and the minimum lifetime penalty of 7 percent when there are millions of eligible beneficiaries who have still not signed up for a plan,” said Rep. Lofgren. “California’s seniors should be given the time to make an informed decision without this stiff lifetime penalty, especially given the confusing nature and botched rollout of the Medicare Part D program.”With the enrollment period for the Medicare prescription drug plan set to expire next Monday, May 15, California’s seniors run the risk of paying the price for the confusing and complicated program. At the event, Democrats again called on Republicans to extend the deadline and avoid punishing seniors for mistakes made by the White House and Republican led Congress.Lofgren is also co-sponsor of H.R. 3861, the Medicare Informed Choice Act. This bill would ease the implementation of the new Medicare prescription drug program and extend the enrollment period through December 31, 2006.
05.04.2006	Lofgren and Baird Introduce Bill to Hold War Profiteering Companies AccountableMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Brian Baird (D-WA) today introduced the Stop Fraud in Iraq Act, HR 5290, legislation that will protect U.S. taxpayers by ensuring that contractors in Iraq suspected of defrauding the government are being held accountable. “We are not engaged in the Iraq war so that corporations could be free to rip off Iraqi money and property that the U.S. helps administer,” said Representative Lofgren. “U.S. companies like Halliburton, that do business and profit from the war in Iraq, should not be allowed to get away with fraud in their contracts without remedy. Our bill would bolster the False Claims Act to ensure that corporations may not engage in fraudulent war profiteering in Iraq.”Baird and Lofgren’s bill will update the False Claims Act, a law that allows whistleblowers to sue government contractors suspected of fraud. The False Claims Act has been used to bring dozens of charges against Iraq contractors suspected of fraud, including Halliburton’s subsidiary, Kellogg Brown and Root. However, a loophole in the False Claims Act that allows the Administration to stall the process has prevented pending Iraq contractor fraud cases from moving forward. “U.S. taxpayers have spent billions of dollars on the Iraq reconstruction effort,” said Representative Baird. “It is appalling and disgraceful that our government is looking the other way while companies like Halliburton defraud hardworking American taxpayers. Our bill will ensure corrupt companies are held accountable for war profiteering.” Before a fraud case can proceed, the Administration must decide within 60 days whether or not it wants to be part of the prosecution. However, the Justice Department can request indefinite extensions, prolonging a decision and preventing the fraud cases from ever being resolved. By refusing to make a decision in these Iraq fraud cases, the Administration has also kept the cases sealed. As a result, the scope of suspected fraud in Iraq contracts remains unknown. Baird and Lofgren’s legislation would give the Administration only one six-month extension before it must decide whether or not to participate in legal action. Baird and Lofgren’s bill would also update the False Claims Act to ensure it applies not only to reconstruction funding being appropriated by the U.S. government, but also funding being supplied by Iraq. To date, $29 billion of U.S. taxpayer money has been appropriated to Iraq reconstruction efforts. And, the U.S. Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) has uncovered numerous instances of abuse in the expenditure of these appropriated Iraq reconstruction funds. Baird and Lofgren worked together last year to secure an extension for Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) Stuart Bowen, who serves as a critical watchdog over the billions of U.S. dollars allocated for Iraq reconstruction programs.
05.03.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Today, the House passed H.R. 4975, the Republican-crafted Lobbying Accountability Act. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) managed the time for the Democrats during the debate on the bill’s seven amendments and offered the following statement in opposition:“The public has watched this Congress bend and break the rules over the past few years and I think they’ve had it. It’s going to take more than ethics seminars and gift disclosures to convince the people that we’re really interested in cleaning up Congress. This bill doesn’t accomplish the real problem-solving that this country is crying out for and will not clean up the ethics swamp that this country is so concerned about.“This bill fails to fundamentally reform a culture of corruption. It does not end the practice of lobbyists giving gifts to Members of Congress and their staffs. It does not end the practice of Members using corporate jets. It does not require disclosure of lobbyists bundling contributions to Members of Congress. It does not end the practice of leaving votes open to twist arms and lobby Members on the floor of the House. It does nothing to close the revolving door from government service to personal gain. It does nothing to clean up our campaign finance system to take special interest money out of politics. The bottom line is this bill really doesn’t actually reform the system that has the American people so concerned and rightly so.“This bill isn’t going to change anybody’s mind that this Republican-controlled House is serious about cleaning up the mess that is here. It’s the entire system that’s a problem. It’s a culture that leads to corruption that we must try to correct. This Republican lobbying bill does not succeed in cleaning up that swamp. I wish this whole bill was a lot more than it is.”
04.28.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) sent a “Dear Colleague” letter to all Members of the House of Representatives this week, bringing their attention to a letter sent by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) reiterating the Bishops’ strong support for comprehensive immigration reform and their opposition to the Republican-crafted immigration bill, H.R. 4437. Roman Catholic Cardinals are also scheduled to meet with Congressional leaders today to discuss the need for comprehensive immigration reform.“I commend the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops for standing up for the 11 million undocumented immigrants and the countless number of good Samaritans in their recent letter opposing the Republican-crafted House Immigration Bill. HR 4437 is a radical piece of legislation that will neither secure this nation, nor solve the problem of illegal immigration. The Bishops are an important voice in this debate and I hope their call for comprehensive immigration reform will not fall on deaf ears in the Republican-controlled Congress,” said Rep. Lofgren.The text of the Dear Colleague and original USCCB letter is below:April 26, 2006Dear Colleague,I would like to bring the attached letter from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) to your attention. In their letter, the USCCB reiterates their strong support for comprehensive immigration reform and their opposition to H.R. 4437. They also explain that reducing the penalty for unlawful presence from a felony to a misdemeanor, as proposed by the Sensenbrenner amendment and opposed by a solid majority in the House (including most Democrats), would still criminalize millions of undocumented immigrants for the first time in history. Finally, the USCCB explains that good Samaritans should not be subject to prosecution by prosecutors who could use their power and a provision in H.R. 4437 to make criminals of humanitarian workers.Sincerely,Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) ***April 25, 2006Mr. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr.Chairman, House Judiciary CommitteeMr. Henry J. HydeChairman, House International Relations Committee Mr. Peter T. KingChairman, House Homeland Security Committee Dear Congressmen:On behalf of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, I wish to acknowledge your April 5 “open letter” to the U.S. bishops regarding immigration reform proposals currently under consideration in Congress. This is a matter of considerable importance to our nation and to the bishops, for we see the harm caused by the current immigration system. We bishops have communicated on a number of occasions about our belief that to be effective, reforms to our nation’s immigration system must be comprehensive and include reforms to the employment- and family-based immigration systems and include provisions for an earned legalization program for the undocumented in our country. It is for this reason that we are opposed to the House-passed bill, which we believe is unnecessarily punitive and would ultimately be ineffective, because of its narrow focus on harsh enforcement measures. History informs us that if the root causes of the desperation motivating migration and the pull factors in the form of employment and family in the U.S. are not addressed, people will continue to risk even their lives in an effort to come to this country. We believe H.R. 4437 would cause harm and suffering not only to the undocumented, but to asylum-seekers, refugees, and even immigrants here in an authorized status. Furthermore, the provisions that make unlawful presence a crime and criminalize those who would “assist” the undocumented are of considerable concern to the bishops. While we certainly agree that we should redouble our efforts to apprehend and prosecute smugglers, human traffickers, and drug traffickers, we believe that this objective can be achieved without placing church and humanitarian workers in jeopardy. We appreciate your explanations regarding these provisions. However, we note that reducing the penalty for unlawful presence from a felony to a misdemeanor, as your letter proposes, would still leave these aliens criminalized for the first time in history. And while we appreciate your belief that prosecutors would not actually use the provision in H.R. 4437 that would make “assisting” undocumented aliens a crime punishable by harsh criminal and civil penalties, we believe that if you do not wish to see the provision used it should be stricken from the legislation altogether. We fear that if it is part of the law, a zealous prosecutor could use the provision against the Church as well as against other good Samaritans, notwithstanding the view that you expressed in your letter. Although we disagree with your conclusions on these two provisions and many other provisions in H.R. 4437, we remain available to work with Congress to adopt appropriate provisions that strengthen the government’s efforts to combat smuggling and trafficking, while holding church and humanitarian workers harmless as they provide legitimate aid to those in need, irrespective of their immigration status.To be clear, the criminalization provisions of the House measure represent only a few of our many concerns with the legislation. Provisions involving mandatory detention, passport and document fraud which victimizes asylum seekers and denies them and other immigrants future relief, and the erection of walls along our southern border are among some of the other provisions we find harmful. These concerns were outlined in a letter to all House members on December 14, 2005.We have been encouraged by the approach being considered in the Senate. Though we believe that some of the enforcement measures in the Senate bill are also unnecessary and overly punitive, the bill’s comprehensiveness in addressing the various aspects of immigration better reflect what we perceive to be a growing consensus for the type of reforms needed.We bishops will continue to advocate for comprehensive reforms as outlined in our pastoral letter, Strangers No Longer: Together on the Journey of Hope. As we have engaged the Catholic community and others in education about the reforms sought by the bishops, we have seen an increasing number of people agree with the need for reforms and the proposals we espouse. Some still labor under misunderstandings about immigration and immigrants, so more education is needed. But, we remain optimistic that the moral and political leadership necessary to achieve comprehensive reforms will prevail and the American people can once again be proud of our immigration system, while having confidence in its ability to provide security and the rule of law.We bishops remain available to work with Congress on this important matter. Thank you for your leadership on the range of public policy issues affecting our nation.With hopeful prayers and a commitment to continue working with you to fashion comprehensive immigration reforms, I amSincerely,Most Reverend Gerald BarnesBishop of San BernardinoChairman, USCCB Committee on Migration
04.27.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and 17 other Members of Congress sent a letter to President Bush calling on him to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate reports that the National Security Agency conducted warrantless surveillance on U.S. persons in violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and the 4th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Many of the signers originally sent requests for investigations into the NSA program to the Department of Defense, Department of Justice and Government Accountability Office. All three agencies refused to investigate this matter. The original request letters and responses can be viewed online at: http://www.house.gov/lofgren/nsa_spying.shtml. Below is the text of the letter:February 26, 2006The President The White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President:We urge you to immediately direct Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to exercise his authority under 28 U.S.C. __ 509, 510 and 515 to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate recent reports that the National Security Agency may have conducted warrantless surveillance on U.S. persons in violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and the 4th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. We know that the security of the American people depend on our law enforcement and intelligence agencies’ interception of communications between terrorist agents. We believe that this surveillance can and must be performed according to the rule of law.The public, along with most Members of Congress, first learned of this wiretapping program when it was reported by the New York Times.[i] With no oversight activities being conducted by the House related to the program, and no clear information coming from your Administration, we have continued to rely primarily on press reports for information. As described in those reports, the program appears to violate the rights of U.S. persons both under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Section 1802(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a), permits electronic surveillance of communications without a court order only if the Attorney General certifies that (1) these communications are exclusively between or among foreign powers; and (2) there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party.[ii] Consistent with the Constitutional requirements of the Fourth Amendment, FISA also requires a showing of probable cause in order to conduct wiretapping of U.S. persons.[iii] According to the report in the New York Times, the NSA appears to have violated these prohibitions by conducting surveillance on at least 500 and possibly thousands of individuals located in the United States, “including American citizens [and] permanent legal residents”[iv] who are United States persons within the meaning of FISA.[v]We have carefully reviewed the Attorney General’s recent memorandum describing the legal basis for conducting this domestic surveillance program.[vi] The power the Attorney General asserts of inherent Presidential authority to conduct surveillance on U.S. persons in a time of war appears to be constrained neither by Congressional authority to regulate intelligence collection nor by Fourth Amendment protection from unreasonable warrantless searches. This is not an assertion we find sound. We also take strong exception to the view that our Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF), P.L. 107-40, inherently or implicitly authorized surveillance of U.S. persons as part of the war effort.In addition to serious questions about the legal bases you have offered, we continue to have significant factual questions about this program. You stated that this program captures only international calls,[vii] but press reports indicate that the domestic surveillance program also captured purely domestic calls within the United States.[viii] You told the public that this program only captured calls “in which intelligence professionals have reason to believe that at least one person is a member or agent of al Qaeda or a related terrorist organization.”[ix] And yet the Attorney General stated that “This remains a highly classified program. It remains an important tool in protecting America. So my remarks today speak only to those activities confirmed publicly by the President, and not to other purported activities described in press reports.”[x] Mr. Gonzales’ remarks imply that domestic surveillance activities beyond those described in your public statements are taking place. Although Mr. Gonzales characterized press reports describing domestic surveillance beyond what you have confirmed as “misinformed, confusing, or wrong,” he did not state that the activities described in those press reports were not occurring at all, potentially including surveillance of purely domestic communications and communications not involving suspected members of al Qaeda.[xi] These inconsistent statements leave serious questions about this program that have yet to be answered.Unfortunately, Mr. Gonzales’ recent testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee did little to answer our questions or dispel our concerns. Rather, the Attorney General’s opaque testimony simply left us with even more questions about this program. Mr. Gonzales repeatedly refused to discuss what he called the “operational details” of this program, refusing to inform the Committee of such “operational details” as whether the Department discloses to the FISA court its use of information garnered from this program in obtaining warrants from the court — in other words, whether the Department was pursuing prosecutions based on evidence gathered in possible violation of FISA and the 4th Amendment. Press reports indicate that, in fact, evidence gathered under this program may have been used improperly to obtain warrants from the FISA court.[xii] Mr. Gonzales refused to provide “operational details” such as whether the Administration has conducted warrantless physical searches of Americans in reliance on the authority it claims under the AUMF. Mr. Gonzales gave no explanation for the president’s decision to limit this program (assuming it is in fact so limited) to international calls, vaguely citing the “circumstances” in which the Administration found itself as the basis for this decision. He also failed to confirm that he was “fully, totally informed” about the program, and could not provide assurances that Americans unconnected to Al Qaeda were not being spied upon. He failed to provide assurances that purely domestic calls were never captured by this program. He refused to commit to the program’s review by the FISA court. He declined to answer when asked what other activities you have authorized relying upon the power as Commander-in-Chief used to authorize this surveillance program. The Attorney General offered contradictory testimony on whether surveillance conducted under this program would meet the 4th Amendment’s probable cause standard. The Attorney General’s testimony raised serious questions that previous Congressional testimony by Department officials about the Administration’s surveillance programs was misleading. Far from providing additional information to Congress, the Attorney General’s testimony simply created more serious questions about the legality and constitutionality of the activities you authorized.At every juncture, our efforts to seek investigations to answer questions such as these have been stymied, generally based on the feeblest of excuses. More than a month ago, several members of Congress wrote to the Inspector Generals of the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice asking them to begin investigating these reports.[xiii] The Department of Justice’s Inspector General, Mr. Glenn Fine, responded that he lacked jurisdiction to begin an investigation because the matter involved the Attorney General’s provision of “legal advice.”[xiv] The same members wrote back to Mr. Fine, explaining that the official actions for which they sought investigation appeared to go far beyond the mere provision of legal advice, and that he lacked any basis to conclude otherwise in the absence of an investigation. Yet, despite that response, Mr. Fine has steadfastly refused to investigate. The office within the Department of Justice to which he referred our request for investigation failed to respond to our request. Although recent press reports indicate that this office has begun a review, the Department has also made clear that this review will not examine the lawfulness of any Justice Department officials’ actions under this program.[xv]The Department of Defense’s Acting Inspector General, Mr. Thomas F. Gimble, has refused requests by members of Congress that he investigate this program. Mr. Gimble referred those requests to the Inspector General of the NSA, who he claimed was already actively reviewing this program.[xvi] Yet, in subsequent news reports, it was revealed that the NSA review to which Mr. Gimble so swiftly deferred was not a new review but a long-standing audit, which would not review the legality of NSA’s activities.[xvii] Furthermore, you yourself have indicated that the Inspector General of the NSA has long known of this program without apparently questioning its legality.[xviii] We fail to see how the Inspector General of NSA can review potential deficiencies in his own advice. Despite these deficiencies, Mr. Gimble has steadfastly refused to begin any investigation of his own. Moreover, we have received no response from the Inspector General of NSA, to whom Mr. Gimble referred our request for investigation.The Government Accountability Office has also informed us that it will decline our request for investigation. In explaining its decision, GAO in part has cited its expectation that your Administration will designate the agency records it seeks as foreign intelligence or counterintelligence materials, limiting GAO’s statutory access to these records through the courts.[xix]Unfortunately, a pattern of resistance to investigation is emerging from the Executive branch agencies implicated by these allegations. Both the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice may have vested interests in blocking investigation of their activities supporting NSA’s alleged unauthorized surveillance. If the effort to prevent vigorous and appropriate investigation succeeds, we fear the inexorable conclusion will be that these Executive Branch agencies hold themselves above the law and accountable to no one. Clearly, these are extraordinary circumstances calling for an extraordinary remedy. Mr. President, the only sufficient remedy is for Attorney General Gonzales to appoint a Special Counsel empowered to investigate these allegations thoroughly and without impediment.We request that you direct Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate these allegations. The Special Counsel should be empowered to exercise his or her authority independent of the supervision or control of any officer of the Department of Justice. In addition to any powers available under 28 C.F.R. Part 600 of the Department’s rules, the Special Counsel should be delegated all the plenary authority of the Attorney General with respect to the Department's investigation into these allegations, including the authority to investigate and prosecute violations of any federal criminal laws, as well as federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses; to conduct appeals arising out of the matter being investigated and/or prosecuted; and to pursue administrative remedies and civil sanctions (such as civil contempt) that are within the Attorney General's authority to impose or pursue. There is ample precedent for such an appointment in the Department’s appointment of Special Counsel Patrick J. Fitzgerald to investigate the alleged unauthorized disclosure of the identity of a CIA employee.[xx] Indeed, the allegation of a secret NSA spying program conducting warrantless domestic surveillance of U.S. persons is at least as serious as the matter for which the Attorney General appointed Special Counsel Fitzgerald.The circumstances surrounding these allegations necessitate the appointment of a Special Counsel under the Justice Department’s own rules. Those rules require the appointment of an outside special counsel when (1) criminal investigation of a matter is warranted; (2) the investigation of that matter presents a conflict of interest for the Department; and (3) the appointment of a Special Counsel is in the public interest.[xxi] Under the FISA statute, surveillance of U.S. persons without a warrant would be a crime punishable by imprisonment. Given Attorney General Gonzales’ potential authorization of surveillance under this program and his highly public defense of it, Justice Department officials under his supervisory control clearly would have a conflict of interest in investigating this program. Furthermore, it is unquestionably in the public interest for a Special Counsel to investigate this program and finally shed some light on it for Congress and for the public.Mr. President, we strongly support the safeguarding of our homeland from terrorist threats. We know that the safety and security of the American people depend on the ability of our law enforcement and intelligence agencies to determine with whom terrorists are talking and what they are planning together. We believe it is essential that our surveillance of terrorists and their accomplices is performed within the bounds of the rule of law. If U.S. persons are indeed conspiring with suspected agents of a foreign terrorist organization such as al Qaeda, we want our intelligence and law enforcement agencies to have the ability to eavesdrop on their communications — as warrants obtained under the “probable cause” standard in FISA would allow. If existing laws including FISA are insufficient to conduct vital counter-terror intelligence activities, then we should have the opportunity to amend those laws within recognized processes under the rule of law. Mr. President, as you yourself have said, the heart of al Qaeda’s terrorist campaign is the vision of a “totalitarian empire,” opposed to our own nation’s foundations in democracy and the rule of law. We must not now abandon democracy and the rule of law in the name of safeguarding them. We urgently ask that you agree to our request for a Special Counsel, so that these serious allegations can be finally investigated. Our constitutional system of government demands no less. Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Gary Ackerman (D-NY)Rick Boucher (D-VA)Lois Capps (D-CA)John Conyers (D-MI)Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Anna Eshoo (D-CA)Sam Farr (D-CA)Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) Mike Honda (D-CA)Carolyn Maloney (D-NY)Doris Matsui (D-CA)Jim McGovern (D-MA)George Miller (D-CA)David Price (D-NC)Jan Schakowsky (D-IL)Adam Schiff (D-CA)Bennie Thompson (D-MS)[i] See “Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers without Courts,” James Risen and Eric Lichtblau, New York Times, Dec. 16, 2005.[ii] See 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a)(1).[iii] See 50 U.S.C. _ 1805(a)(3).[iv] See n. 1. [v] “United States persons” include U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, U.S. corporations, or associations consisting of a substantial number of U.S. citizens or permanent residents. See 50 U.S.C. _ 1801(i).[vi] See U.S. Dept. of Justice, “Legal Memorandum Supporting the Activities of the National Security Agency Described by the President,” Jan. 19, 2006.[vii] “The program applies only to international communications. In other words, one end of the communication must be outside the United States.” Statement of the President to the National Security Agency, Jan. 25, 2006 (available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2006/01/20060125-1.html).[viii] See “Spying Program Snared U.S. Calls,” James Risen & Eric Lichtblau, N.Y. Times, Dec. 21, 2005, at 1.[ix] See Statement of the President to the National Security Agency, supra n. vii.[x] See Prepared Remarks for Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzalesat the Georgetown University Law Center, delivered Jan. 24, 2006 (available at http://www.usdoj.gov/ag/speeches/2006/ag_speech_0601241.html).[xi] See id.[xii] See “Secret Court's Judges Were Warned About NSA Spy Data,” Carol D. Leonnig, Washington Post, p. A01, (Feb. 9, 2006). [xiii] See Letter from Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, et al, to Thomas F. Gimble, Acting Inspector General, Department of Defense, et al, dated Dec. 20, 2005.[xiv] See Letter from Glenn A. Fine, Inspector General, Department of Justice, to Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, dated Jan. 4, 2006. [xv] See “Justice Department Reviews Role of Its Lawyers in Spying,” Scott Shane and Eric Lichtblau, New York Times, Feb. 15, 2006. (According to a Justice Department spokeswoman, “[OPR] will not be making a determination on the lawfulness of the N.S.A. program, but rather will determine whether the department lawyers complied with their professional obligations.”)[xvi] See Letter from Thomas F. Gimble, Acting Inspector General, Department of Defense, to Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, dated Jan. 10, 2006.[xvii] See “N.S.A. Audit of Spying Is Not Assessing Legality,” Scott Shane, New York Times, Jan. 11, 2006.[xviii] See President’s Radio Address, Dec. 17, 2005.[xix] See 31 U.S.C. _ 716(d)(1)(A).[xx] See Letter from James B. Comey, Acting Attorney General, to Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. Attorney, dated Dec. 20, 2003; Letter from James B. Comey, Acting Attorney General, to Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. Attorney, dated Feb. 6, 2004 (available at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/iln/osc/).[xxi] See 28 C.F.R. Part 600.1. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her sixth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as the ranking member on the Select Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Science, and Research & Development. She is also a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Science Committee. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
04.11.2006	The Honorable Robert SimmonsChairman, Subcommittee on Intelligence,Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk AssessmentCommittee on Homeland SecurityU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, D.C. 20515Dear Mr. Chairman:It appears that we have a profound disagreement about what our Subcommittee should do by way of oversight of the NSA’s warrantless surveillance program or programs. I think we should engage in vigorous oversight. So far you have failed to arrange for oversight of this or these NSA programs.From your comments, you seem to believe that you, through your staff, have tried to accommodate my efforts. In fact, attempts to conduct vigorous oversight have been ignored and effectively blocked. For this reason I originally submitted to the record an exchange of emails between our two staffs that I believe showed a lack of cooperation. I understand that after I left the Intelligence Subcommittee hearing last Thursday (April 6th) to attend an oversight hearing with Attorney General Gonzales in the Judiciary Committee, an objection was raised to the material that had already been entered into the record by unanimous consent during my opening statement. If you prefer, I am agreeable to accepting this letter and its attachments, which is a narrative of events as I know them, to substitute for the material unanimously entered into the record of the hearing last Thursday.I originally made my official request that you hold oversight hearings into the NSA warrantless eavesdropping program in a letter sent 1/27/06. The only written response I received to my official request was an email from your personal staff sent to my Chief of Staff on 2/7/06 stating only this: “How does a two-bit Connecticut newspaper get wind of a letter sent by your boss to Chairman Simmons?”My staff responded, “I don’t know how this reporter got the letter. For your information, all of Congresswoman Lofgren’s recent letters regarding FISA and NSA are posted on our website.” Later you and I discussed this matter on the floor and I advised you that I had posted all relevant materials on the NSA issue on my web site. It is my view that this matter is the public’s business, not private business.When you did schedule a privacy hearing its focus did not appear to be the NSA matter. I attempted to remedy what I thought was a shortfall in that regard through inclusion of an NSA witness. You did not accommodate this effort. On 3/24/06, your staff received an email that in pertinent part asked that you: “Subpoena a person at the NSA who is familiar with the NSA surveillance program, who can talk about the program, what it entailed, its legal underpinnings, [and] its current status.”You declined this request with an email sent through your staff that said: “Chairman King will not allow it. Also, that is not the purpose of the hearing.” I then found a potential witness, Dean Elizabeth Rindskopf Parker of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law, who could voluntarily testify on the NSA program. Although not a substitute for an NSA witness, Dean Parker, a former General Counsel of both the NSA and the CIA, might have knowledge that could provide insight to the subcommittee. She was, however, unavailable on the day that the hearing had been set. At my request, on 3/27/06, my staff sent an email requesting that the hearing be moved to accommodate her schedule. This request was denied because of an assertion that Congress would be out of session. I might add at this juncture that although Congress is often in recess we are not always in recess and I personally felt this response to be inadequate.On 3/30/06, my staff again attempted to call witnesses that could speak to the NSA program, asking in pertinent part in their email: “Any final word on willingness to invite a NSA witness?” To which your staff replied: “None yet. Will let you know.”We did not receive an answer back and my staff followed up with an inquiry on 3/31/06, asking: “Any word back on the NSA witness? If it’s a no, did an invite go out to Turley?” Your staff answered: “An invite to Turley will go out today.”This indicated that a NSA witness would not be called and that the hearing would not be postponed.As I mentioned in my initial formal request to you in January, I believe that our Subcommittee has a responsibility to have oversight review of the NSA surveillance program recently dubbed the “terrorist surveillance program” by the Administration.Last Thursday, the Attorney General testified that this program is not the only program being conducted. Accordingly, I suggest that we exercise our oversight jurisdiction on the additional program or programs that the Attorney General has testified under oath exist.I understand that after I pressed for this oversight review questions are being raised about the jurisdiction of our Intelligence Subcommittee to have oversight over this intelligence matter. A letter setting forth the Subcommittee’s jurisdiction to conduct hearings into this program signed by myself and Ranking Member Bennie Thompson was sent to you last Thursday after the hearing.Last Thursday I also delivered to you a letter signed by 6 Members of the Subcommittee calling for Dean Parker to be invited to testify pursuant to Rule II(M) of the Subcommittee. Pursuant to Rule XI of the Rules of the House, the Subcommittee should reimburse Dean Parker according to the per diem rate authorized by the House Administration Committee, including actual travel expenses. Based on discussions with her staff, she may be available on Wednesday, May 10, 2006 to testify at another Subcommittee hearing. I hope that at this time you will give the Subcommittee an opportunity to conduct vital oversight into this secret NSA program. As I mentioned in my January letter to you and during my opening statement last Thursday, I strongly feel that the Subcommittee has an obligation to exercise its oversight authority to review these NSA activities. I fully appreciate that as Chairman, you set the agenda for the Subcommittee. It is your decision to make but I hope you understand that I cannot remain silent if you are making what I view to be a serious error that is not in the best interests of our country. I remain ready to work with you on the things we can agree upon as the 109th Congress proceeds, but I simply cannot agree that permitting the NSA surveillance programs to escape our scrutiny is proper or in the best interests of America.Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenRanking Member, Subcommittee on Intelligence,Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk AssessmentCommittee on Homeland Security
04.06.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov— Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today raised her concern with the lack of congressional oversight of the National Security Agency’s (NSA) domestic wiretapping of Americans without warrants during hearings of both the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees. As the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment, Rep. Lofgren criticized Subcommittee Chairman Rob Simmons for ignoring the “elephant in the room” by not focusing on the NSA program during a hearing on privacy rights.“We need to do our oversight job and find out what is really going on by calling the witnesses who have direct knowledge of what the government is actually doing,” Rep. Lofgren said. “There is only one Intelligence Subcommittee of the Homeland Security Committee and we are it. We cannot get thorough information on this NSA eavesdropping program without a government witness with firsthand knowledge about it. So today is a lost opportunity for this Subcommittee.” Rep. Lofgren later questioned Attorney General Alberto Gonzales during a Judiciary Committee oversight hearing, asking him to describe the precise standard for conducting surveillance and why it was determined that FISA warrants were not needed. “I am seeking to understand exactly what NSA and the Bush Administration has done, why they have done it, and I think a good outcome would be to regularize this program in a way that preserves the rule of law,” Rep. Lofgren said. “If I’m hearing you correctly, you are saying that the administration has decided not to comply with FISA as an alternative to streamlining the FISA processes.”During the second round of questioning, Rep. Lofgren questioned the Attorney General’s classification of the PATRIOT Act as a general crime statute instead of a law focused on the war on terror, pointing out that during the drafting of the PATRIOT Act, Judiciary Committee members were told repeatedly that the law would be essential in fighting the war on terror. Rep. Lofgren also questioned the Attorney General’s definition of presidential war powers.“You assert that whatever is incident to conducting war, the President can do under his war powers authority without regard to statute. Shooting people, capturing them in their homes or on the street, putting them into POW camps, would all of those things be incidents to the conduct of war?”“All the committee knows is what we read in the newspapers, which is actually a pretty sad commentary on the lack of the partnership that we should have in this fight, with the Legislative and Executive branch working together,” Rep. Lofgren concluded. “You have a job to do, but the Congress also has a job to do and we have been denied the opportunity to do it.”Rep. Lofgren has been a leader in the House of Representatives in calling for oversight of the NSA eavesdropping program. Her letters can be viewed at: http://www.house.gov/lofgren/nsa_spying.shtml.
04.06.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov— Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment, delivered the following opening statement today at the hearing, “Protection of Privacy: DHS Intelligence Enterprise”:“Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and welcome, Ms. Cooney, Mr. Herath, and Mr. Turley. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate being recognized to make this statement. Our topic is privacy rights. The elephant in the room is the issue of the NSA warrantless eavesdropping program. NSA eavesdropping is an important issue for this Subcommittee to address under its oversight responsibilities over intelligence and information sharing techniques.“The Bush Administration has failed repeatedly to give Congress meaningful answers about this eavesdropping program, and the Congress so far has failed to hold it accountable through oversight. The Administration seems unwilling to provide Congress with the information it needs to conduct its proper oversight role.“I have tried to secure information about this warrantless eavesdropping program. I have asked the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice to investigate this program but they have declined. I asked President Bush to direct that a special counsel be appointed to investigate this program. He has not answered the letter but through his Press Secretary declined.“To date, press reports are all of the information about this program that Members of Congress and the public have. Congress should not accept this. “One serious question about this warrantless eavesdropping program is whether it complies with the law. This Subcommittee should get an answer to that question. “Whenever possible, it is important to work in a bipartisan fashion. Indeed, two weeks ago the Chairman and I produced legislation jointly and I think set a land speed record for a subcommittee mark-up. It’s not comfortable or enjoyable to be critical when you sit next to somebody on a frequent basis and hope to work with them. But the hope for comity can never be an excuse for ducking the need to take action.“As the ranking member, I cannot and do not control the agenda of our subcommittee. The Chairman sets the agenda. I have sought to have this committee discharge its oversight responsibility in the matter of the NSA through written requests by staff, written requests by myself as well as personal conversations. But these efforts resulted in today’s hearing that will not serve as the needed oversight of the NSA warrantless surveillance program.“I tried to secure a witness from the NSA to testify today, and as a part of the record I ask unanimous consent to place material about this in the record of this hearing.“I appreciate that Professor Turley is here today to testify about the NSA eavesdropping program. I thank him for his testimony, which I’ve reviewed. His observations about the Administration’s legal claims in support of this program are important and his view that the Administration’s legal claims present risks not only for our intelligence-gathering process but also for our constitutional separation of powers are significant. While I’m thankful to have Professor Turley’s testimony, Congress needs to hear more than legal arguments from scholars about this program. We need to do our oversight job and find out what is actually going on by calling the witnesses who have direct knowledge of what the government is actually doing.“There is only one Intelligence Subcommittee of the Homeland Security Committee and we are it. We cannot get thorough information on this NSA eavesdropping program without a government witness with firsthand knowledge about it. So today is a lost opportunity for this subcommittee. But today, actually right now, the Attorney General of the United States is testifying before the Judiciary Committee. The Attorney General knows all about the NSA program and is in a position to answer questions about it. I don’t know if he will, but the opportunity to question him about what he knows about the NSA program is a far sight more promising than what we have allowed this hearing to be. So, I will excuse myself now to see whether the Attorney General will permit the Congress to discharge its oversight obligations with regrets that the structure of this hearing ensures that we will not succeed in that mission in this subcommittee today.”
04.06.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.go— Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today raised her concern with the lack of congressional oversight of the National Security Agency’s (NSA) domestic wiretapping of Americans without warrants during hearings of both the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees. As the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment, Rep. Lofgren criticized Subcommittee Chairman Rob Simmons for ignoring the “elephant in the room” by not focusing on the NSA program during a hearing on privacy rights.“We need to do our oversight job and find out what is really going on by calling the witnesses who have direct knowledge of what the government is actually doing,” Rep. Lofgren said. “There is only one Intelligence Subcommittee of the Homeland Security Committee and we are it. We cannot get thorough information on this NSA eavesdropping program without a government witness with firsthand knowledge about it. So today is a lost opportunity for this Subcommittee.” Rep. Lofgren later questioned Attorney General Alberto Gonzales during a Judiciary Committee oversight hearing, asking him to describe the precise standard for conducting surveillance and why it was determined that FISA warrants were not needed. “I am seeking to understand exactly what NSA and the Bush Administration has done, why they have done it, and I think a good outcome would be to regularize this program in a way that preserves the rule of law,” Rep. Lofgren said. “If I’m hearing you correctly, you are saying that the administration has decided not to comply with FISA as an alternative to streamlining the FISA processes.”During the second round of questioning, Rep. Lofgren questioned the Attorney General’s classification of the PATRIOT Act as a general crime statute instead of a law focused on the war on terror, pointing out that during the drafting of the PATRIOT Act, Judiciary Committee members were told repeatedly that the law would be essential in fighting the war on terror. Rep. Lofgren also questioned the Attorney General’s definition of presidential war powers.“You assert that whatever is incident to conducting war, the President can do under his war powers authority without regard to statute. Shooting people, capturing them in their homes or on the street, putting them into POW camps, would all of those things be incidents to the conduct of war?”“All the committee knows is what we read in the newspapers, which is actually a pretty sad commentary on the lack of the partnership that we should have in this fight, with the Legislative and Executive branch working together,” Rep. Lofgren concluded. “You have a job to do, but the Congress also has a job to do and we have been denied the opportunity to do it.”Rep. Lofgren has been a leader in the House of Representatives in calling for oversight of the NSA eavesdropping program. Her letters can be viewed at: http://www.house.gov/lofgren/nsa_spying.shtml.
04.05.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov— Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement today on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 513, the 527 Reform Act of 2005:“Yesterday, former Majority Leader Tom DeLay announced that he is resigning from the House.“His former aids Michael Scanlon and Tony Rudy have pled guilty for their involvement in the Jack Abramoff corruption affair. Other aids to DeLay and other current Members of this body remain under investigation. “Last November, Republican Congressman Duke Cunningham resigned from Congress for taking over $2 million in bribes from a Defense contractor. He is now serving an 8 year prison sentence for his crimes. “The House Ethics Committee is broken and has done no work in the past 15 months. The Committee managed to have its first meeting of the 109th Congress last week. On Sunday, The Washington Post said that “The panel's inactivity in the face of scandal is itself scandalous.”“Today’s bill is being characterized as important campaign finance reform by the House Republicans. The question is, what would this bill do to address the countless Republican scandals that are currently engulfing Washington? “The answer is nothing. H.R. 513 will do absolutely nothing. This bill does nothing to address these very serious charges of corruption. It would do nothing to prevent another Jack Abramoff or Duke Cunningham scandal. The bill would actually make this kind of corruption easier by removing all limits on state and local campaign contributions.“Since this Republican-crafted bill would do nothing to reverse the Republican culture of corruption, let’s look at this bill on its merits to see what it actually does. “This proposal would curtail the free speech rights of millions of Americans. The bill would limit the ability of average citizens to band together and speak out about issues, both during and beyond election periods. “It would also limit participation in our electoral process. Many of the organizations that will be impaired by this legislation play a critical role in increasing public interest and participation in our electoral system. “In 2004, 527 organizations helped to educate and register voters across the country. Voters were motivated like never before to get involved and cast their vote. This was a good thing for our democracy, and the bill before us today would reverse this progress.“The 2002 Shays-Meehan-McCain-Feingold bill was real reform and had a clear purpose: to take members of Congress out of the business of asking lobbyists and special interest for large unregulated donations. “527 organizations however are not made up of elected officials. In fact, 527’s are barred from coordinating with officeholders, candidates or public officials. By law, these groups are independent. I am not aware of any allegations that there was illegal coordination between 527’s and political parties in 2004. If anyone knows of coordination with a 527 and any of these groups, they have the responsibility to go to the Attorney General and report this. No one has. Despite this, Republicans want to shut them down. They are creating a solution for a problem that does not exist. “This bill will only limit the ability of citizens to associate, organize and speak out. This is clearly unconstitutional and the Supreme Court has already addressed this issue. “In Buckley v. Valeo, the Court upheld limitations on contributions as appropriate legislative tools to guard against the reality or appearance of improper influence stemming from candidates’ dependence on large campaign contributions. However, Buckley also invalidated limitations on independent expenditures, on candidate expenditures from personal funds, and on overall campaign expenditures. The Court ruled that that these provisions placed direct and substantial restrictions on the ability of candidates, citizens, and associations to engage in First Amendment protected free speech.“This bill conflicts with the Buckley ruling. It violates people’s constitutional right of free speech and association.“So why are we considering this bill today? I suspect because this is a last ditch effort for the Republicans to keep their hold on power. They’ve read the polls. They know that most Americans are going to support Democrats this November. The Republicans are losing on issue after issue so they are going to try to change the rules to keep themselves in power over the wishes of the majority of Americans. “Let me finish by reviewing the ethics rules that this Congress has passed this year. At the beginning of the year, shortly after Jack Abramoff pled guilty, House Republicans boldly pushed through their reform plan for Congress. What did their plan to crack down on ethics do? It banned former Members from lobbying in the House gym and on the House floor. So America, you can rest easy knowing that at least the cesspool of Republican corruption at the stairmaster is no more. “The country should be embarrassed by Bush’s Republican Congress, embarrassed by the scandals that have taken place so far, and embarrassed by the scandals that are bound to take place in the future.”
04.05.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement regarding the negative impact of the President Bush’s proposed FY 07 budget on women:“As in previous years, President Bush has proposed a budget that would harm women and girls across the country. “At a time when over two-thirds of low-income elderly people are women and 56% of Medicare beneficiaries are women, the President has proposed substantial cuts in Medicare, food stamps, and food delivery programs. “On top of the $22 billion cut in Medicare that was passed by this Republican-led Congress and the President in February, the Bush budget calls for $105 billion more in cuts over the next ten years. “The President’s budget also would eliminate the Commodity Supplemental Food Program which serves 420,000 seniors and 50,000 women and children with nutritious food packages, often delivered to their homes.“Replacing this home delivery food program with food stamps is not the solution, as most people on the program are elderly and in need of home delivered food to survive and maintain their health. Moreover, many people now on the food delivery program do not qualify for food stamps for various reasons. That does not mean they are not in need of home delivered food. “Even if we assumed food stamps were the answer for this group of seniors, women, and children, the Bush budget could cause 300,000 Americans to lose their food stamp benefits.“The problems with the Bush budget do not end with cuts in Medicare, food stamps, and food delivery programs. Bush also intends to cut programs that have helped women and girls succeed in education and the workforce. “In 1973, the Women’s Educational Equity Act (WEEA) was introduced by a champion for women, the late Representative Patsy Mink. For more than 30 years, WEEA has funded hundreds of programs to expose girls to careers traditionally dominated by men, develop teaching strategies for math and science that engage girls, and to help schools comply with Title IX. “At a time when the President is touting the need for a greater emphasis on science and math education, his budget would eliminate WEEA, along with $664 million in Federal Perkins Loan funds, just two months after Congressional Republicans cut college aid by $12 billion. “This comes at a time when only 21% of master’s degrees in engineering are awarded to women. The statistics are even worse for women of color. Of engineering master’s degrees awarded to women, only 11% go to Asian-American women, 4% go to African-American women, and less than 4% go to Latinas. It seems that the President’s ¥competitiveness agenda’ does not apply to women.“Furthermore, instead of closing the wage gap, the Bush budget would increase the gap by eliminating Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations program (WANO), which provides grants to employers to help recruit, train and retrain women in non-traditional, well-paying jobs. “Statistics show that women in WANO were 47% more likely to enter a high-paying, technical occupation than women who were not a part of the program. “Bush would eliminate this program at a time when women still earn less than men — on average 76 cents to every dollar that a man earns. Moreover, in high-paying, high-technology jobs, women who hold Ph.D.s in computer science and engineering earn $9,000 less than men.“Women in the workforce faced with a wage gap and great need for child care assistance would be turned away by the Bush budget. “Since the beginning of the Bush Administration, 250,000 children have lost their child care assistance. Bush would continue that trend by freezing funding for the Child Care Development Block Grant for the fifth year in a row. At this rate, 400,000 more children will lose their child care assistance in the next five years, creating a situation where 25% less children receive this assistance than did in 2000.“The Bush budget would also leave behind women who end up in violent situations, cutting $19.5 million in Violence Against Women programs and completely zeroing-out funding for new programs authorized by this Congress last year in the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2005. “From birth to old age and in their most vulnerable periods in life, the Bush budget would leave women and girls behind. I join my fellow members of the Women’s Caucus today to call on Congress to reverse the harmful effects of the Bush’s proposed budget on women and girls.”
02.09.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) joined a bipartisan group of House Members to introduce H.R. 4709, the “Law Enforcement and Phone Privacy Protection Act of 2006,” legislation that will protect the privacy of citizens and law enforcement officials by criminalizing the fraudulent sale or solicitation of confidential cell phone records. The bill’s original sponsors, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lamar Smith (R-TX), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Bobby Scott (D-VA) Chris Cannon (R-UT), Joe Wilson (R-SC), Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) offered the following joint statement: “There are few things more personal than our phone call records. Dishonest individuals and businesses are posing as cell phone customers to access the personal call records of other individuals. These people have flourished in a gray area of the law. But that is about to stop. “These practices assault our individual privacy, and may even contribute to stalking or other crimes of violence. In the wrong hands, this information can be used to target police officers, their families, and confidential informants. According to press reports, the FBI and the Chicago Police Department have begun to investigate this problem and recently took steps to warn their personnel, in particular undercover officers, to protect themselves from the release of sensitive personal information that might endanger them. “We must ensure that the best interests of consumers and law enforcement officials are taken into account and fully protected from the unauthorized release of private call information. Congress must take immediate action to deter these acts by providing that anyone who seeks to wrongfully acquire or disclose these records is confronted with serious consequences under the criminal laws of the United States. “The House Judiciary Committee is the appropriate forum for considering these changes to the criminal law. We are committed to working with all interested parties to enact this legislation, which is urgently needed to preserve consumers' privacy rights and to protect the personal safety of law enforcement personnel.”
01.31.2006	“Governing Is Not a Bike Ride in the Park”Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren tonight issued the following statement in reaction to President Bush’s State of the Union address:“Tonight was the fifth time I have watched President Bush deliver the State of the Union, and I regret to say it was the most disappointing address yet. Instead of offering innovative solutions to today’s challenges, he chose to continue his permanent political campaign. “Governing is not a bike ride in the park. It requires a long-term commitment to creative thinking, intelligent compromise and real hard work. I call on the President to cancel his campaign-style rallies this week in Nashville, Minnesota, Albuquerque and Dallas. These events are nothing more than partisan public relations stunts. Instead, beginning tomorrow morning, President Bush should sit down with both Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress to craft a positive agenda for the American people. Let’s roll up our sleeves and get to it.”
01.27.2006	Lofgren Asks Intelligence Subcommittee Chairman Rob Simmons to Investigate NSA ActivityMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment, today called on Subcommittee Chairman Rob Simmons (R-CT) to initiate Subcommittee oversight hearings on reports that the President ordered and the National Security Agency (NSA) engaged in wiretapping of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants. Below is the text of the letter:The Honorable Rob Simmons Chairman, Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing& Terrorism Risk AssessmentCommittee on Homeland Security215 Cannon House Office Building U.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Simmons:A year ago you and I were named Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment. I had high hopes for what we would be able to accomplish together. As you well know, a major responsibility of the Intelligence Subcommittee is to provide oversight of intelligence and information sharing techniques for the purpose of preventing, preparing for, and responding to potential terrorist attacks. Unfortunately, the Subcommittee has not discharged this responsibility relative to domestic surveillance for homeland security purposes by the NSA. I find it hard to defend this failure. The recent revelations of warrantless domestic wiretapping require that we initiate the Intelligence Subcommittee’s oversight activities. Over the past month, it has been reported that the President and Attorney General have authorized, and that the National Security Agency (NSA) has engaged in, wiretaps without warrants of persons inside the United States. It appears that such domestic surveillance violates section 1802(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a). That law permits electronic surveillance of communications without a court order only if the Attorney General certifies that (1) these communications are exclusively between or among foreign powers; and (2) there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party. According to the report in The New York Times, our government appears to have routinely violated these prohibitions by conducting surveillance on at least 500 and possibly thousands of individuals located in the United States, “including American citizens [and] permanent legal residents” who are United States persons within the meaning of FISA.I have attempted to get information about this situation from the Department of Justice and the Department of Defense. Enclosed are copies of the letters I have sent on this subject for your reference, as well as responses I have received to date. It seems clear to me from the responses I have received that the Administration is resisting the need to report to me as an individual Member of Congress about these questionable activities. Based on reports in the press, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the Administration has failed to comply with the requirements of the law. Indeed, the report received from the Department of Justice last week seems to suggest that the Administration believes it has no duty to comply with the laws governing intelligence collection, laws that were passed by Congress and signed into law by the President. This would be, as I imagine you agree, quite a departure from our government’s system of checks and balances and the rule of law that has served America so well for the last 217 years. Nevertheless, I am eager to hear from the Administration a set of facts that might allow us to reach the conclusion that they have acted within the law and within the Constitution.Congress must reassert its oversight authority over our nation’s intelligence gathering techniques in response to this situation. To date, the Intelligence Subcommittee, which has the authority to look into these matters, has not provided that oversight. As Chairman, you have the power to change this. As Ranking Member, I have only the power to suggest a course of action to you. I call on you to schedule hearings immediately on these matters. Only by addressing these issues forcefully, and in a timely manner, will we truly serve as an independent and co-equal branch of government that inspires faith and confidence in our democratic society. There is simply too much at stake for us to do any less. Sincerely, Zoe LofgrenRanking Member; Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing & Terrorism Risk Assessment Committee on Homeland Security
01.18.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072, kyra.jennings@mail.house.gov Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement today on the House and Senate Democrats unveiling of their Honest Leadership, Open Government Act: “As a former member of the House Ethics Committee, I know the aggressive reform package offered today by my Democratic colleagues will go a long way to reverse current Republican excesses and protect the public trust. All of us in Congress must work to restore accountability, honesty and openness at all levels of government. Democrats’ Honest Leadership, Open Government plan would create and enforce rules that demand the highest ethics from every public servant, sever unethical ties between lawmakers and lobbyists, and establish clear standards that prevent the trading of official business for gifts. We have a responsibility to ensure that the people’s interests are put ahead of special interests.” The Democratic Declaration and Principles of Honest Leadership can be found online at www.democrats.gov.
01.11.2006	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Washington, DC — The Department of Justice, Department of Defense and Government Accountavility Office have responded to requests for investigations by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and 38 other Members of Congress into reports that the President authorized and the National Security Agency (NSA) engaged in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants. Below are the text of the initial letter and subsequent correspondence from the Department of Justice and the Department of Defense:Original Request: December 20, 2005Thomas F. Gimble, Acting Inspector GeneralUnited States Department of Defensec/o Office of the Inspector General of the Department of DefenseOffice of Communications and Congressional Liaison400 Army Navy DriveArlington, VA 22202-4704Glenn A. Fine, Inspector GeneralUnited States Department of JusticeOffice of the Inspector General950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 4706Washington, DC 20530-0001 David M. WalkerComptroller GeneralU.S. Government Accountability Office441 G Street, NWWashington, DC 20548 Dear Sirs:We, the undersigned Members of Congress, write to seek immediate investigations of reports that the Attorney General has authorized and that the National Security Agency (NSA) has engaged in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants authorizing these searches.The New York Times reports that since 2002 the NSA has monitored international telephone calls and email messages of hundreds and possibly thousands of people inside the United States without warrants.[1] According to this report, the NSA began conducting such domestic surveillance following a 2002 order by the President of the United States. Furthermore, the report states that, even according to its own officials, such domestic espionage is unprecedented in the NSA’s history.It is apparent that such domestic surveillance violates section 1802(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a). That law permits electronic surveillance of communications without a court order only if the Attorney General certifies that (1) these communications are exclusively between or among foreign powers; and (2) there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party.[2] According to the report in the New York Times, the NSA appears to have routinely violated these prohibitions by conducting surveillance on at least 500 and possibly thousands of individuals located in the United States, “including American citizens [and] permanent legal residents”[3] who are United States persons within the meaning of FISA.[4]We ask that you begin immediate investigations of these alleged violations of the law and misuse of appropriated funds by the Attorney General of the United States, the Director of the National Security Agency, and any of their subordinate officials. We ask that you be ready to brief us, the undersigned Members of Congress, on the results of your investigations no later than January 31, 2006. Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Gary Ackerman (D-NY)Brian Baird (D-WA)Howard Berman (D-CA)Earl Blumenauer (D-OR)Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU)Rick Boucher (D-VA)Sherrod Brown (D-OH)Lois Capps (D-CA)Julia Carson (D-IN)John Conyers (D-MI)Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Diana DeGette (D-CO)John Dingell (D-MI)Eliot Engel (D-NY)Barney Frank (D-MA)Al Green (D-TX)Raul Grijalva (D-AZ)Michael Honda (D-CA)Jay Inslee (D-WA)Barbara Lee (D-CA)Nita Lowey (D-NY)Carolyn Maloney (D-NY)Edward Markey (D-MA)Doris Matsui (D-CA)James McGovern (D-MA)Martin Meehan (D-MA)George Miller (D-CA)Jerrold Nadler (D-NY)Steven Rothman (D-NJ)Bernard Sanders (I-VT)Janice Schakowsky (D-IL)Allyson Schwartz (D-PA)Bobby Scott (D-VA)Adam Smith (D-WA)Ted Strickland (D-OH)Bennie Thompson (D-MS)Mark Udall (D-CO)Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)*** Department of Justice Response:January 4, 2006The Honorable Zoe LofgrenU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington D.C. 20515Dear Congresswoman Lofgren:This is in response to your letter of December 20, 2005, in which you and 37 other Members of Congress requested that the Department of Justice Office of the Inspecter General (OIG), the Department of Defense OIG, and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigate issues related to surveillance activities by the National Security Agency (NSA). Specifically, your letter raises concerns about the legality and appropriateness of NSA surveillance activities and requests an investigation of, among other things, the Attorney General’s reported actions in authorizing the program. After reviewing your letter, we have determined that the issue of the Attorney General’s actions in this matter falls outside the jurisdiction of the OIG. Specifically, the actions of the Attorney General or other Department attorneys in providing legal advice regarding the legality of warrantless surveillance by NSA relates to the legal duties of Department attorneys, which falls within the jurisdiction of the Department’s Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR), not the OIG. As a result, we have contacted the Counsel for the Department’s OPR and have forwarded your letter to OPR for its review and any action it deems appropriate.Given the large number of signatories to your December 20 letter, we would appreciate it if you could share this response with interested Members.Sincerely, Glenn A. FineInspector GeneralUnited States Department of JusticeCc: H. Marshall Jarrett, CounselOffice of Professional Responsibility *** Department of Defense Response:Jan. 10, 2006The Honorable Zoe LofgrenU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515-0516Dear Representative Lofgren:Thank you for the letter from you and your colleagues dated December 20, 2005, concerning press reports of certain surveillance activates by the National Security Agency (NSA). We have determined that the Inspector General of NSA is already actively reviewing aspects of that program. The NSA’s Office of Inspector General is a well-staffed, highly professional organization with considerable expertise in the oversight of electronic surveillance, and we work closely with them on a number of issues. I should also note that the program you inquire about is highly classified. In light of those facts, and in light of our confidence in the competence and integrity of the NSA Inspector General and his staff, we have referred your letter to him with the suggestion that he review it an d reply through the appropriate channel, which in this instance would be the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He has agreed to do so. I appreciate your expression of concern and trust this letter response to your inquiry. A similar letter has been sent to other Members who cosigned the letter. Should you have any questions regarding this matter, please contact me or Mr. John R. Crane, Assistant Inspector General for Communications and Congressional Liaison at (703)604-8324. Sincerely, Thomas F. GimbleActing Inspector GeneralUnited States Department of Defense *** Government Accountability Office Response:February 7, 2006The Honorable Zoe LofgrenHouse of RepresentativesDear Ms. Lofgren:Thank you for your letter of December 20, 2005, jointly signed by a number of your colleagues, asking the Government Accountability Office to investigate reports that the Attorney General authorized personnel at the National Security Agency to conduct warrantless domestic electronic surveillance activities in violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 50 USC _ 1802(a).As Mr. Ralph Dawn, Assistant Director for Congressional Relations, discussed with Mr. Praveen Goyal, we are unable to accept your request for two reasons. First, our analysis of your request reveals that an audit of the reported acts of domestic electronic surveillance activities would necessitate reviewing and assessing highly classified government records involving the government's sources and methods of identifying and tracking persons associated with international terrorist organizations. While GAO has broad statutory audit and agency-records access authority, our ability to enforce access to records related to foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities is specifically limited by law. 31 USC _ 716(d) (1) (A). Accordingly, the Comptroller General has determined that GAO will not attempt to conduct audits that would necessitate a review and assessment of such highly sensitive intelligence community records without the express support of one or both of the congressional select intelligence oversight committees. Second, it is our understanding that the allegations in your request regarding unlawful government actions are currently being reviewed in several federal district courts. It is GAO's longstanding policy, as outlined in our congressional protocols, not to conduct work on matters pending before judicial forums. It would not be appropriate for us to undertake this review while the litigation is ongoing.Please know that we appreciate your interest in GAO, and we regret that we cannot be of assistance on this matter. If we can be of future assistance, please contact Mr. Ralph Dawn at 202-512-4544.Sincerely,Gloria L. JarmonManaging DirectorCongressional RelationsGovernment Accountability Office *** Second Call for Inquiry in Response to DOJ Letter:January 9, 2006Glenn A. Fine, Inspector General|United States Department of JusticeOffice of the Inspector General950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 4706Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Fine:This is in response to your letter of January 4, 2006, in which you state your view that investigation by your office of the Attorney General’s authorization of domestic warrantless surveillance by the National Security Agency (NSA) would fall outside the scope of your office’s jurisdiction but instead within the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice’s Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR).We write to disagree with this conclusion and to renew our request that you promptly begin an investigation of these alleged abuses, pursuant to your statutory responsibilities under the Inspector General Act.Under that law, the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Inspector General has the “duty and responsibility” to report to Congress “abuses and deficiencies relating to the administration of programs and operations” within the Department of Justice.[5] Furthermore, under Section 1001 of the PATRIOT Act, your office is designated as the one entity responsible for the review of information and complaints regarding civil rights and civil liberties violations by DOJ employees and officials.[6] We disagree with your characterization of the jurisdiction of DOJ’s Office of Professional Responsibility in this matter. Under the order establishing the OPR, its jurisdiction extends only to allegations of misconduct by attorneys in the “exercise of their authority to investigate, litigate or provide legal advice.”[7] This authorizing language parallels the jurisdictional language in the Inspector General Act, allowing OPR referrals for allegations of misconduct relating to the “exercise of the authority of an attorney to investigate, litigate, or provide legal advice.”[8] Notwithstanding your characterization to the contrary, the allegations at issue here do not relate to the Attorney General’s provision of legal advice to any party, but rather allegations of his non-compliance with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in the conduct of his official duties. Your letter fails to explain how, in the absence of any investigation by your office, you have concluded that the Attorney General’s conduct in question extends no further than “provid[ing] legal advice."A refusal to investigate the Attorney General may not rest on the mere fact of his being an attorney in the employ of DOJ. Such a reading of the Inspector General Act would effectively eviscerate the investigation by your office of any attorneys engaged in official misconduct, largely defeating our purpose in creating your office. It would hardly be a sensible reading of your statutory duty that empowers you to investigate only the non-attorneys employed at the Department of Justice.Federal courts have been careful to distinguish between the roles government employees fill as attorneys providing counsel as opposed to as officials conducting government business. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled that an attorney in the White House Counsel’s office may not refuse to testify about possible criminal conduct on the basis of attorney-client privilege. As the Court of Appeals stated, “the Office of the President is a part of the federal government, consisting of government employees doing government business, and neither legal authority nor policy nor experience suggests that a federal government entity can maintain the ordinary common law attorney-client privilege to withhold information relating to a federal criminal offense.”[9] The Court further stated, “With respect to investigations of federal criminal offenses, and especially offenses committed by those in government, government attorneys stand in a far different position from members of the private bar. Their duty is not to defend clients against criminal charges and it is not to protect wrongdoers from public exposure. The constitutional responsibility of the President, and all members of the Executive Branch, is to ¥take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.’ U.S. CONST. art. II, _ 3.”[10] In light of this careful distinction between government employees acting as legal counsel versus acting as officials conducting government business, we fail to see how you conclude, without any investigation, that the Attorney General’s alleged criminal violations of FISA constitute the simple provision of legal advice.[11]For the foregoing reasons, we disagree with your proffered basis for refusing to conduct the investigation we called for in our previous letter — an investigation that is your “duty and responsibility” under the law.[12] We ask that you respond in writing by January 11, 2006, confirming that you will conduct the investigation we called for in our previous letter and present your results to us by January 31. We request your immediate attention to this highly serious matter. Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenMark UdallSam FarrDiana DeGetteEd MarkeyPeter DeFazioRick BoucherDoris MatsuiJohn ConyersCarolyn MaloneyJan SchakowskyGwen MooreJohn DingellJay InsleeJim McGovern[1] See “Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers without Courts,” James Risen and Eric Lichtblau, New York Times, Dec. 16, 2005.[2] See 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a)(1).[3] See n. 1. [4] “United States persons” include U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, U.S. corporations, or associations consisting of a substantial number of U.S. citizens or permanent residents. See 50 U.S.C. _ 1801(i).[5] 5 app. U.S.C. _ 4(a)(5). [6] P.L. 107-56, Title X, _ 1001, 115 Stat. 391.[7] “Jurisdiction for Investigation of Allegations of Misconduct by Department of Justice Employees,” Order No. 1931-94, Office of the Attorney General (Nov. 8, 1994).[8] 5 app. U.S.C. _ 8E(b)(3).[9] In re: Bruce R. Lindsey (Grand Jury Testimony), 148 F.3d 1100, 1102 (D.C. Cir. 1998), cert. denied Office of the President v. Office of Independent Counsel, 525 U.S. 996 (1998).[10] Id. at 1108.[11] See infra n. 8.[12] See infra n. 5.
12.30.2005	Requests Report on DOD Monitoring Activities in 30 Days from Inspector GeneralRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today sent a letter to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DOD) calling for an immediate investigation into the recent allegations that the DOD developed and maintains a database of information on United States persons. Earlier this month, NBC News reported that over a 10-month period more than 1,500 "suspicious incidents" across the country were monitored and recorded in a DOD database, including a protest against military recruiters at UC-Santa Cruz in April. Below is the text of Rep. Lofgren's letter:December 30, 2005Mr. Thomas F. GimbleActing Inspector GeneralU.S. Department of Defensec/o Office of Communications and Congressional Liaison400 Army Navy DriveArlington, VA 22202-4704 Dear Mr. Gimble:I write to ask that you begin an immediate investigation of recent allegations that the Department of Defense (DOD) has developed and maintains a database of information on United States persons, apparently collected in violation of DOD regulations and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA).According to news reports, DOD has developed one or more databases of information on domestic persons, including “the monitoring of peaceful anti-war and counter-military recruitment groups.”[i] According to this report, the DOD’s information collection consists of “domestic intelligence that goes beyond legitimate concerns about terrorism or protecting U.S. military installations.”[ii] Furthermore, it is reported that such information is retained in DOD’s databases even after it has been deemed irrelevant to combating terrorism or protecting military facilities.[iii] The report indicates that DOD’s purpose in collecting and retaining this information is in part to further a data mining project conducted by DOD’s Counterintelligence Field Activity (CIFA) agency, based at least in part on Threat and Local Observation Notice (TALON) reports.[iv] I am concerned that the information collected and retained by DOD may have been collected in violation of its own regulations and in violation of FISA. The reports do not indicate that the information DOD has collected on U.S. persons has been obtained pursuant to a court order or that it is publicly available information. If true, these activities could violate FISA’s general stipulation that searches of U.S. persons, whether electronic or physical, be performed pursuant to a court-ordered warrant upon a determination of probable cause.[v] This could also violate FISA’s stipulation that DOD’s surveillance and search activities collect foreign intelligence information, rather than target domestic speech activities protected by the First Amendment. FISA’s provisions authorize surveillance and searches for the gathering specifically of foreign intelligence information, not any information that DOD decides to collect.[vi] FISA’s provisions also make clear that probable cause to conduct surveillance or searches of a U.S. person cannot rest solely on that person’s activities protected by the First Amendment.[vii] If the reports are accurate, it appears that DOD may have specifically targeted U.S. persons based upon their activities protected by the First Amendment.DOD’s regulations implementing FISA’s statutory requirements also underscore the general need for DOD to obtain lawful court orders prior to conducting domestic intelligence activities. DOD’s regulations generally require the use of “overt” means of intelligence gathering on U.S. persons, where the subject is advised or otherwise aware that he or she is providing intelligence information to DOD. The use of covert intelligence gathering on U.S. persons is circumscribed to a very narrow set of circumstances, none of which appear to apply here if news reports are correct.[viii] Indeed, DOD’s intelligence gathering here appears to have targeted the domestic activities of U.S. persons, for which covert means are impermissible.[ix] DOD’s regulations also permit intelligence gathering on U.S. persons only for specific types of information, none of which appear to apply here. In pertinent part, DOD’s rules generally permit the collection of non-consensual, non-public information for foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes, and for the protection of military facilities.[x] DOD’s rules permit non-consensual physical surveillance of U.S. persons within the United States only if the subject has a specified employment or contractual relationship with the military or intelligence services.[xi] Intelligence gathering on peaceful domestic anti-war and counter-military recruitment groups does not appear to fall within any of these categories. Moreover, DOD’s data mining of such intelligence information on U.S. persons collected in violation of its rules generally would contravene DOD’s rules against retention of such information.[xii]I ask that you immediately begin an investigation of these alleged violations of the law and report your findings to me by January 31, 2006. In particular, your report should contain the following information:(1) What types of information has DOD collected on U.S. persons? What types of information has DOD collected on U.S. persons belonging to domestic anti-war or counter-military recruitment groups?(2) What overt methods has DOD employed to collect this information? What non-overt methods has DOD employed to collect this information?(3) What types of information on U.S. persons does DOD store as part of its CIFA or TALON programs?(4) On how many distinct U.S. persons has DOD collected information? On how many distinct U.S. persons does DOD currently retain information?(5) On how many distinct U.S. persons consisting of or belonging to domestic anti-war or counter-military recruitment groups has DOD collected information? On how many such persons does DOD currently retain information?(6) For information on U.S. persons retained by DOD, provide a percentage breakdown of the amount of data points collected pursuant to each prong of Procedure 2.3. For information retained by DOD on U.S. persons who belong to domestic anti-war or counter-military recruitment groups, provide a percentage breakdown of the amount of data points collected pursuant to each prong of Procedure 2.3.(7) Where non-public information on U.S. persons has been collected without their consent, has DOD in every instance obtained a warrant from a court of lawful jurisdiction? If not, on what legal authority has DOD obtained this information in each instance, and how is this information collection consistent in each instance with DOD 5240 1-R?Please contact Praveen Goyal of my staff at (202) 225-3072 to coordinate providing your report to me by January 31, 2006, including answers to the specific questions posed above. Thank you for your urgent attention to this serious matter.Sincerely,Zoe LofgrenMember of Congress [i] “Is the Pentagon Spying on Americans,” MSNBC News, Lisa Myers et al., Dec. 14, 2005 (available at http://msnbc.msn.com/id/10454316/).[ii] Id.[iii] Id.[iv] Id.[v] See 50 U.S.C. __ 1802, 1804; 1822, 1824.[vi] See id.[vii] See, e.g., 50 U.S.C. __ 1804(a)(3)(A); 1824(a)(3)(A).[viii] See DOD 5240 1-R, “Procedures Governing the Activities of DOD Intelligence Components that Affect United States Persons,” at Procedure C2.5. [ix] See id. at Procedure C2.5.1.[x] See id. at Procedure C2.3.[xi] See id. at Procedure C9.3.1.[xii] See id. at Procedure C3.3.
12.23.2005	By Zoe LofgrenThis op-ed originally appeared in the San Jose Mercury News on Friday, December 23, 2005.On Dec. 16, I learned from media accounts that the National Security Agency has been spying on American citizens and legal residents seemingly in violation of U.S. law. This surprised me, and most of my colleagues in Congress. What little we've been told by the Bush administration since the 16th about the claimed legal basis for this domestic spying is troubling.President Bush secretly ordered the NSA to spy on Americans without a court order as early as October 2001. Since then, it is reported that the NSA has monitored the communications of possibly thousands of American citizens and legal residents (termed ``U.S. persons'' under the law). Current reports suggest that some purely domestic communications may have been the subject of wiretaps. The president has admitted to reauthorizing this program more than 30 times and says he has no plans to stop.National security electronic surveillance of Americans is regulated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA. This 1978 law requires warrants for surveillance of U.S. persons. Congress created a special court that meets in secret to approve requests for warrants, so that law enforcement and intelligence services could guard our nation, while preserving our constitutional rights. Outside of this process, national security electronic surveillance of U.S. persons is a felony, punishable with imprisonment.As to why he acted as he did, the president has said it's because this is ``a different era'' and ``a different war,'' due to the speed with which terrorists can change phone numbers and phone calls.This is, indeed, a different era. But FISA already has safeguards to allow law enforcement and intelligence services to remain agile while pursuing threats in the 21st century. Judges can provide warrants in hours, sometimes in minutes. In urgent situations, FISA allows wiretaps without a warrant for 72 hours, with warrants obtained after the fact. The Patriot Act allows warrants to ``follow the person'' instead of the phone number through ``roving wiretaps.'' Since the law's inception 27 years ago, the FISA court has received more than 18,000 warrant requests and turned down only five.Despite these provisions and without explaining why, the president says law enforcement and intelligence officers need to act without warrants. Neither the president nor his administration have come before Congress in the past four years to argue that FISA's warrant requirements were not enough to keep Americans safe or to ask us in Congress to make changes.It appears that the NSA violated the law at the president's direction. Of great concern is the legal authority claimed by President Bush for the warrantless spying he ordered. These claims of legal authority are very shaky. He asserted, in his national radio address, that the president has authority to act outside of the FISA law because Congress authorized the use of force against terrorists in Afghanistan and because of the ``inherent authority'' of the commander in chief.I was there in Congress on Sept. 14, 2001, when the authorization for the use of force against terrorists was adopted. I voted for it. Nothing in the resolution exempts the president from compliance with the FISA law. The president's claim of inherent authority as commander in chief to ignore the law is a radical departure from our American system of government.As a young congressional staffer, I looked on when President Nixon asserted similar claims about the inherent authority of the president. In 1972, the Supreme Court unanimously said ``no'' to Nixon's sweeping claim of presidential power. In 1978, Congress passed the FISA law to make sure that surveillance activities were overseen by the courts, carried out within the law, so that abuses would not be committed again. Is the president really asserting that the laws passed by Congress or the constitutional rulings of the Supreme Court don't apply to him? What then of the system of checks and balances instituted by the forefathers in our Constitution that President Bush took an oath to protect and defend?This is serious business. Congress and the American people deserve serious answers, not offhand comments at news conferences or the ``talking points'' now being spun out of the Republican National Committee. This week, with 38 other members of Congress, I wrote to the inspectors general of the Department of Justice and the Department of Defense as well as to the Government Accountability Office, asking them to investigate whether the FISA laws have been obeyed and requesting that they report back to Congress in January on their results. My colleague, Rep. Rick Boucher, D-Va., and I, along with 15 other members of the Judiciary Committee, have asked the committee chairman, Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., for Judiciary Committee hearings on these presidential activities immediately.Not all the facts are in, but they rarely are. It is imperative that we fully understand exactly what the president ordered and whether there was a legal basis for his actions.Our government must be one of laws and not of the will or desires of particular individuals, no matter how powerful those individuals may be. The president must lead in the observance of this principle. Congress and the public must know whether the rule of law has been observed in this case. As a first step, the nation must know whether the president has followed the law, or whether he considers himself above it.Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072
12.21.2005	Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and 38 other Members of Congress requested investigations by the Department of Defense, Department of Justice and the Government Accountability Office into reports that the President authorized and the National Security Agency (NSA) engaged in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants. The signers asked that the investigations be held immediately and that the findings be presented to Congress by January 31, 2006. Below is the text of the letter: December 20, 2005Thomas F. Gimble, Acting Inspector GeneralUnited States Department of Defensec/o Office of the Inspector General of the Department of DefenseOffice of Communications and Congressional Liaison400 Army Navy DriveArlington, VA 22202-4704Glenn A. Fine, Inspector GeneralUnited States Department of JusticeOffice of the Inspector General950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 4706Washington, DC 20530-0001David M. WalkerComptroller GeneralU.S. Government Accountability Office441 G Street, NWWashington, DC 20548 Dear Sirs:We, the undersigned Members of Congress, write to seek immediate investigations of reports that the Attorney General has authorized and that the National Security Agency (NSA) has engaged in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants authorizing these searches.The New York Times reports that since 2002 the NSA has monitored international telephone calls and email messages of hundreds and possibly thousands of people inside the United States without warrants.[i] According to this report, the NSA began conducting such domestic surveillance following a 2002 order by the President of the United States. Furthermore, the report states that, even according to its own officials, such domestic espionage is unprecedented in the NSA’s history.It is apparent that such domestic surveillance violates section 1802(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a). That law permits electronic surveillance of communications without a court order only if the Attorney General certifies that (1) these communications are exclusively between or among foreign powers; and (2) there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party.[ii] According to the report in the New York Times, the NSA appears to have routinely violated these prohibitions by conducting surveillance on at least 500 and possibly thousands of individuals located in the United States, “including American citizens [and] permanent legal residents”[iii] who are United States persons within the meaning of FISA.[iv]We ask that you begin immediate investigations of these alleged violations of the law and misuse of appropriated funds by the Attorney General of the United States, the Director of the National Security Agency, and any of their subordinate officials. We ask that you be ready to brief us, the undersigned Members of Congress, on the results of your investigations no later than January 31, 2006.Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Gary Ackerman (D-NY)Brian Baird (D-WA)Howard Berman (D-CA)Earl Blumenauer (D-OR)Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU)Rick Boucher (D-VA)Sherrod Brown (D-OH)Lois Capps (D-CA)Julia Carson (D-IN)John Conyers (D-MI)Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Diana DeGette (D-CO)John Dingell (D-MI)Eliot Engel (D-NY)Barney Frank (D-MA)Al Green (D-TX)Raul Grijalva (D-AZ)Michael Honda (D-CA)Jay Inslee (D-WA)Barbara Lee (D-CA)Nita Lowey (D-NY)Carolyn Maloney (D-NY)Edward Markey (D-MA)Doris Matsui (D-CA)James McGovern (D-MA)Martin Meehan (D-MA)George Miller (D-CA)Jerrold Nadler (D-NY)Steven Rothman (D-NJ)Bernard Sanders (I-VT)Janice Schakowsky (D-IL)Allyson Schwartz (D-PA)Bobby Scott (D-VA)Adam Smith (D-WA)Ted Strickland (D-OH)Bennie Thompson (D-MS)Mark Udall (D-CO)Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)[i] See “Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers without Courts,” James Risen and Eric Lichtblau, New York Times, Dec. 16, 2005.[ii] See 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a)(1).[iii] See n. 1.[iv] “United States persons” include U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, U.S. corporations, or associations consisting of a substantial number of U.S. citizens or permanent residents. See 50 U.S.C. _ 1801(i).
12.19.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202-225-3072 (Lofgren)Amanda Potter, 202-225-3861 (Boucher)For Immediate Release: December 19, 2005Seventeen Members of the House Judiciary Committee today called on House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner to convene hearings to investigate the President ordering the National Security Agency (NSA) to engage in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants. Below is the text of the letter:December 19, 2005The Honorable James F. Sensenbrenner, Jr.ChairmanHouse Committee on the Judiciary2138 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Sensenbrenner:We, the undersigned Members of the House Judiciary Committee, write to urge you to convene hearings as soon as possible to investigate the President’s ordering the National Security Agency (NSA) to engage in espionage of persons inside the United States without obtaining court-ordered warrants authorizing these searches.On December 16, the New York Times reported that since 2002, the NSA has monitored international telephone calls and email messages of hundreds and possibly thousands of people inside the United States without warrants pursuant to an order of the President of the United States. Yesterday, the President confirmed that he secretly ordered the NSA, whose mission is to conduct foreign surveillance, to engage in domestic spying by intercepting the communications of American citizens and terrorist suspects inside the United States without obtaining warrants.The December 16 New York Times report states that, even according to its own officials, such domestic espionage is unprecedented in the NSA’s history. It is apparent that such domestic surveillance violates section 1802(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 50 U.S.C. _ 1802(a). That law permits electronic surveillance of communications without a court order only if the Attorney General certifies that (1) these communications are exclusively between or among foreign powers; and (2) there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party. The Administration even temporarily suspended the program last year because of concerns about its legality.Chairman Specter has already stated that the Senate Judiciary Committee will conduct hearings concerning this matter, and we ask that you, too, convene hearings to investigate why the President circumvented the system established under current law, which permits him to seek emergency warrants from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to conduct domestic surveillance. It is imperative we understand the legal authority upon which it is claimed these activities are based and the scope of the activities undertaken.Sincerely,Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Rick Boucher (D-VA)John Conyers, Ranking Member (D-MI)Howard L. Berman (D-CA)Jerrold Nadler (D-NY)Robert C. Scott (D-VA)Melvin L. Watt (D-NC)Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX)Maxine Waters (D-CA)Martin T. Meehan (D-MA)William Delahunt (D-MA) Robert Wexler (D-FL)Anthony D. Weiner (D-NY)Adam B. Schiff (D-CA)Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA)Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL)
12.17.2005	Lofgren Commends Passage, Calls for More to Be Done on IssueRep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) delivered the following statement today on the House floor in support of Reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) and called for additional tools to help victims of domestic violence:“The reauthorization of VAWA is critical to protecting victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. I do believe we could have done more, but I believe this bill is an essential step.“Since its passage in 1994, VAWA has been a success. It has provided over $5.5 billion in Federal funding to improve our criminal and community responses to domestic violence. But our work to protect victims of domestic violence is not over.“I and over 120 of my colleagues introduced comprehensive legislation to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. Much of my bill’s provisions are reflected in the Conference Report that we are voting on today. In two critical areas, however, this Conference Report falls short, and I hope we take the opportunity to address these issues in future legislation. These provisions are critical to ensuring that victims have the means to escape the cycle of domestic violence, and to prevent that cycle from happening in the first place.“For example, my bill would have protected immigrant victims from adverse determinations of admissibility or deportation as a result of their abuse. The Conference Report lacks these provisions.“My bill would have also provided critical protections in the workplace. Victims of domestic violence lose 8 million paid work days each year — the equivalent of 32,000 jobs. Almost 50 percent of sexual assault survivors lose their jobs. My bill would have provided sorely needed emergency leave, emergency benefits, unemployment compensation and job protection.“I hope we address these issues in future legislation. But I do believe that a great deal of good work has been done in this Conference Report, and I believe that it’s essential we reauthorize VAWA. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this bill.”
12.14.2005	Calls for Time to Address Civil Rights and Privacy Concerns in BillMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) delivered the following statement today on the House floor in opposition to the Conference Report on Reauthorization of the USA PATRIOT Act:[As prepared for delivery]“Mr. Speaker, most observers agree that in 2001, when we passed the USA PATRIOT Act, the most important element was the new ability to share information between criminal investigators and intelligence officials. I supported authorizing that information sharing capability in the original PATRIOT Act, and I support its reauthorization today. However, there are other elements of the Act that, although less important in keeping us safe, are more contentious because of questions about their implementation. This Conference Report on Reauthorization of the USA PATRIOT Act fails in important ways to deal with those issues.“Following the attacks of 9/11, this Congress passed the USA PATRIOT Act to give our law enforcement and intelligence agencies new powers to fight terrorism. I voted for that law, but only after securing support for sunset provisions that allowed this Congress to revisit these issues under less trying circumstances.“Congress has not done its job in providing the thorough review we need of the PATRIOT Act. Nor has the Bush Administration done its job in providing us the information we need to properly evaluate the PATRIOT Act. I have repeatedly sought access from the Department of Justice to the National Security Letters or NSLs it has issued under section 505 of the Act, and underlying materials regarding its use of the material witness statute. I have been seeking access to these materials for over six months now, with no response from DOJ. I wrote to them again last month seeking this information, and again received no response. This is vital information about DOJ’s actual use of PATRIOT Act powers, information which DOJ steadfastly refuses to provide. Yet with this conference report Congress blindly reauthorizes and makes permanent many of these same powers.“In fact, through the cracks in DOJ’s veil of secrecy, we’ve begun to find some information about the PATRIOT Act. We’ve found out from whistleblowers that the FBI issues more than 30,000 National Security Letters each year. These are tens of thousands of letters, never reviewed by a judge, demanding information on countless people, the vast majority of whom may be Americans innocent of any terrorist activity. We don’t know how many private lives are being swept up in these NSLs, because DOJ won’t tell us.“This bill does not correct the problems with National Security Letters. It creates a new process for judicial review, but leaves that review subject to an extremely vague standard. There are no requirements for law enforcement to “minimize” its collection of NSLs — that is, there’s no requirement for DOJ to segregate the vast amount of information collected on innocent Americans unconnected to any terrorist activity. An audit is provided which would allow DOJ to freely continue stockpiling information on Americans without providing any standard.“This bill also adopts too weak a standard for law enforcement to engage in business records searches under section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. The Senate passed unanimously what I thought was a very reasonable standard for law enforcement to meet in order to conduct these searches. The Senate required that these searches actually be relevant to an ongoing terrorism investigation and related to the activities of an agent of a foreign power. But the Conference Report adopts a presumption of relevance that would essentially tie judges’ hands and force them to grant any requested searches.“Adoption of four-year, rather than seven-year, sunsets on three provisions regarding business records searches, roving wiretaps, and so-called “lone wolf” terrorists acting as agents of foreign powers is positive. Frankly, I would have liked to see four-year sunsets applied to more provisions of the PATRIOT Act, such as the provisions regarding NSLs. I believe these sunsets provide Congress an important opportunity to review how the PATRIOT Act is actually being used. Given how reluctant DOJ has been to share information with us, these sunsets really provide the main source of leverage Congress has over the Department of Justice to obtain information we should be provided as an equal branch of government.“Mr. Speaker, I’m very disappointed that this legislation has removed the provisions we passed in the House providing for additional funding for first-responders. This is vitally needed funding that local first-responders need in the event of another terrorist attack or other disaster. This Conference report drops all of these provisions passed by the House.“For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting against this Conference Report. Instead of rushing this bill to conclusion, we should give ourselves the time we need to get the PATRIOT Act right. I, along with some of my colleagues, have introduced legislation that would allow us to reauthorize the existing PATRIOT Act authorities for another three months, to take the time we need to correct the many deficiencies still remaining in this Conference Report. I urge that, instead of voting for a bad bill in order to meet an arbitrary deadline, my colleagues join me in voting for more time to turn this into a better bill.”
12.09.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Today, the Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority (VTA) announced that it is temporarily withdrawing the BART to Silicon Valley Project from preliminary engineering in the federal New Starts process. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement on VTA’s action and the future of this project:“I support VTA’s decision to take a ¥time out’ from preliminary engineering for the BART to Silicon Valley Project at this time. I, along with my Bay Area colleagues, look forward to working with VTA and the Federal Transit Authority (FTA) to determine how best to proceed with this important project. My colleagues and I will work diligently to ensure that FTA is an active and cooperative partner in further reviews of the BART to Silicon Valley Project to guarantee its completion. All parties are committed to working cooperatively during this self-imposed suspension.”
12.08.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072December 8, 2005 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) declined to sign the House and Senate Conference Report filed today regarding legislation to reauthorize the USA PATRIOT Act and offered the following statement:“During the last four years, the Republicans in Congress have not done their job in overseeing the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) use of its new powers under the USA PATRIOT Act. I tried for months to get detailed information from Attorney General Alberto Gonzales about DOJ’s use of PATRIOT Act powers, without any response. We have learned from whistleblowers the startling fact that the FBI issues more than 30,000 National Security Letters a year. We need to know more about this.“This report failed to make much-needed reforms and an opportunity for bipartisan work has been ignored. I regret the need to oppose this report when it is brought to the floor.”
11.18.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered the following statement regarding Congressman John Murtha’s statement and resolution about the Iraq war:“I have had the honor of serving with Jack Murtha for over a decade in the House of Representatives. Rep. Murtha has served his country with amazing courage in Vietnam and with distinction in Washington. Rank-and-file members of the U.S. Military have no greater friend in Congress. His statement on the Iraq war is both moving and thoughtful. I support his resolution and I am proud to call him my friend.”Below is copy of Rep. John Murtha’s remarks and resolution:“The war in Iraq is not going as advertised. It is a flawed policy wrapped in illusion. The American public is way ahead of us. The United States and coalition troops have done all they can in Iraq, but it is time for a change in direction. Our military is suffering. The future of our country is at risk. We can not continue on the present course. It is evident that continued military action in Iraq is not in the best interest of the United States of America, the Iraqi people or the Persian Gulf Region. “General Casey said in a September 2005 Hearing, “the perception of occupation in Iraq is a major driving force behind the insurgency.” General Abizaid said on the same date, “Reducing the size and visibility of the coalition forces in Iraq is a part of our counterinsurgency strategy.” “For 2 _ years I have been concerned about the U.S. policy and the plan in Iraq. I have addressed my concerns with the Administration and the Pentagon and have spoken out in public about my concerns. The main reason for going to war has been discredited. A few days before the start of the war I was in Kuwait — the military drew a red line around Baghdad and said when U.S. forces cross that line they will be attacked by the Iraqis with Weapons of Mass Destruction — but the US forces said they were prepared. They had well trained forces with the appropriate protective gear. “We spend more money on Intelligence than all the countries in the world together, and more on Intelligence than most countries GDP. But the intelligence concerning Iraq was wrong. It is not a world intelligence failure. It is a U.S. intelligence failure and the way that intelligence was misused.“I have been visiting our wounded troops at Bethesda and Walter Reed hospitals almost every week since the beginning of the War. And what demoralizes them is going to war with not enough troops and equipment to make the transition to peace; the devastation caused by IEDs; being deployed to Iraq when their homes have been ravaged by hurricanes; being on their second or third deployment and leaving their families behind without a network of support. “The threat posed by terrorism is real, but we have other threats that cannot be ignored. We must be prepared to face all threats. The future of our military is at risk. Our military and their families are stretched thin. Many say that the Army is broken. Some of our troops are on their third deployment. Recruitment is down, even as our military has lowered its standards. Defense budgets are being cut. Personnel costs are skyrocketing, particularly in health care. Choices will have to be made. We can not allow promises we have made to our military families in terms of service benefits, in terms of their health care, to be negotiated away. Procurement programs that ensure our military dominance cannot be negotiated away. We must be prepared. The war in Iraq has caused huge shortfalls at our bases in the U.S. “Much of our ground equipment is worn out and in need of either serious overhaul or replacement. George Washington said, “To be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace.” We must rebuild our Army. Our deficit is growing out of control. The Director of the Congressional Budget Office recently admitted to being “terrified” about the budget deficit in the coming decades. This is the first prolonged war we have fought with three years of tax cuts, without full mobilization of American industry and without a draft. The burden of this war has not been shared equally; the military and their families are shouldering this burden. “Our military has been fighting a war in Iraq for over two and a half years. Our military has accomplished its mission and done its duty. Our military captured Saddam Hussein, and captured or killed his closest associates. But the war continues to intensify. Deaths and injuries are growing, with over 2,079 confirmed American deaths. Over 15,500 have been seriously injured and it is estimated that over 50,000 will suffer from battle fatigue. There have been reports of at least 30,000 Iraqi civilian deaths.“I just recently visited Anbar Province Iraq in order to assess the conditions on the ground. Last May 2005, as part of the Emergency Supplemental Spending Bill, the House included the Moran Amendment, which was accepted in Conference, and which required the Secretary of Defense to submit quarterly reports to Congress in order to more accurately measure stability and security in Iraq. We have now received two reports. I am disturbed by the findings in key indicator areas. Oil production and energy production are below pre-war levels. Our reconstruction efforts have been crippled by the security situation. Only $9 billion of the $18 billion appropriated for reconstruction has been spent. Unemployment remains at about 60 percent. Clean water is scarce. Only $500 million of the $2.2 billion appropriated for water projects has been spent. And most importantly, insurgent incidents have increased from about 150 per week to over 700 in the last year. Instead of attacks going down over time and with the addition of more troops, attacks have grown dramatically. Since the revelations at Abu Ghraib, American casualties have doubled. An annual State Department report in 2004 indicated a sharp increase in global terrorism.“I said over a year ago, and now the military and the Administration agrees, Iraq can not be won “militarily.” I said two years ago, the key to progress in Iraq is to Iraqitize, Internationalize and Energize. I believe the same today. But I have concluded that the presence of U.S. troops in Iraq is impeding this progress. “Our troops have become the primary target of the insurgency. They are united against U.S. forces and we have become a catalyst for violence. U.S. troops are the common enemy of the Sunnis, Saddamists and foreign jihadists. I believe with a U.S. troop redeployment, the Iraqi security forces will be incentivized to take control. A poll recently conducted shows that over 80% of Iraqis are strongly opposed to the presence of coalition troops, and about 45% of the Iraqi population believe attacks against American troops are justified. I believe we need to turn Iraq over to the Iraqis. “I believe before the Iraqi elections, scheduled for mid December, the Iraqi people and the emerging government must be put on notice that the United States will immediately redeploy. All of Iraq must know that Iraq is free. Free from United States occupation. I believe this will send a signal to the Sunnis to join the political process for the good of a “free” Iraq. “My plan calls: To immediately redeploy U.S. troops consistent with the safety of U.S. forces. To create a quick reaction force in the region. To create an over- the- horizon presence of Marines. To diplomatically pursue security and stability in Iraq “This war needs to be personalized. As I said before I have visited with the severely wounded of this war. They are suffering.“Because we in Congress are charged with sending our sons and daughters into battle, it is our responsibility, our OBLIGATION to speak out for them. That’s why I am speaking out. “Our military has done everything that has been asked of them, the U.S. can not accomplish anything further in Iraq militarily. IT IS TIME TO BRING THEM HOME.”***IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESNovember 17, 2005Whereas Congress and the American People have not been shown clear, measurable progress toward establishment of stable and improving security in Iraq or of a stable and improving economy in Iraq, both of which are essential to "promote the emergence of a democratic government";Whereas additional stabilization in Iraq by U, S. military forces cannot be achieved without the deployment of hundreds of thousands of additional U S. troops, which in turn cannot be achieved without a military draft;Whereas more than $277 billion has been appropriated by the United States Congress to prosecute U.S. military action in Iraq and Afghanistan;Whereas, as of the drafting of this resolution, 2,079 U.S. troops have been killed in Operation Iraqi Freedom;Whereas U.S. forces have become the target of the insurgency,Whereas, according to recent polls, over 80% of the Iraqi people want U.S. forces out of Iraq;Whereas polls also indicate that 45% of the Iraqi people feel that the attacks on U.S. forces are justified;Whereas, due to the foregoing, Congress finds it evident that continuing U.S. military action in Iraq is not in the best interests of the United States of America, the people of Iraq, or the Persian Gulf Region, which were cited in Public Law 107-243 as justification for undertaking such action;Therefore be itResolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That:Section 1. The deployment of United States forces in Iraq, by direction of Congress, is hereby terminated and the forces involved are to be redeployed at the earliest practicable date.Section 2. A quick-reaction U.S. force and an over-the-horizon presence of U.S Marines shall be deployed in the region.Section 3 The United States of America shall pursue security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren is serving her sixth term in Congress representing most of the City of San Jose and Santa Clara County. She serves as the ranking member on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment. She is also a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Administration. Congresswoman Lofgren is Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consisting of 33 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California.
11.18.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072This week, the House passed the Internment Camp Preservation Bill, H.R. 1492, establishing a grant program that allows private citizens, groups, and local, state and tribal governments to partner with the federal government to preserve the internment camps and related historical sites where Japanese Americans were detained during World War II. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) co-sponsored this meaningful legislation and offered the following statement on the bill’s passage:“The Japanese Internment Camps not only force us to confront the mistakes of the past, but serve as a physical reminder of how important and fragile our Constitutional protections can be. I commend every Member of Congress, especially my colleague Rep. Mike Honda, who worked to preserve these camps, ensuring that the next generations will learn from the government’s failure to protect the rights of every American.”
11.10.2005	Redistricting Reform Act would Create Independent, Bi-partisan Commissions in Every StateMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) calls on Congress to pass H.R. 4094, the Redistricting Reform Act of 2005, which would require states to conduct redistricting through independent, bi-partisan commissions and prohibit mid-decade redistricting efforts. The legislation is co-sponsored by 25 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, including House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. The proposal, introduced by Rep. Lofgren on October 20th, also requires commissioners to uphold minority voting rights and communities of interests when drawing Congressional districts.“This bill would achieve real redistricting reform across the country, creating a redistricting effort that respects and represents all communities and ensures that the process is as open, fair, and depoliticized as possible,” Rep. Lofgren said. “Unlike Governor Schwarzenegger’s failed redistricting scheme, H.R. 4094 is even-handed, creating impartial rules that do not put one party or state at a disadvantage and will make sure all voters’ interests are recognized.”Under H.R. 4094, each state would be required to establish an independent, bi-partisan redistricting commission of at least five members to draw that state’s Congressional district map one time after each decennial census. The Majority and Minority parties in both the upper and lower houses of the state legislature would appoint an even number of commissioners, who would then elect an additional commissioner to serve as the panel’s chair. Commission members may not reside in the same county as any other member and are limited in their past and future political involvement.Redistricting commissions would be required to respect the minority voting rights established by the Constitution and Voting Rights Act, as well as communities of interest, population, and geography when drawing each district. Commission meetings would be conducted publicly and the commission’s report would have to be approved by the Governor and the state legislature without amendment. H.R. 4094 would go into effect upon the date of enactment.
11.10.2005	Redistricting Reform Act would Create Independent, Bi-partisan Commissions in Every StateMedia Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) calls on Congress to pass H.R. 4094, the Redistricting Reform Act of 2005, which would require states to conduct redistricting through independent, bi-partisan commissions and prohibit mid-decade redistricting efforts. The legislation is co-sponsored by 25 members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, including House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. The proposal, introduced by Rep. Lofgren on October 20th, also requires commissioners to uphold minority voting rights and communities of interests when drawing Congressional districts.“This bill would achieve real redistricting reform across the country, creating a redistricting effort that respects and represents all communities and ensures that the process is as open, fair, and depoliticized as possible,” Rep. Lofgren said. “Unlike Governor Schwarzenegger’s failed redistricting scheme, H.R. 4094 is even-handed, creating impartial rules that do not put one party or state at a disadvantage and will make sure all voters’ interests are recognized.”Under H.R. 4094, each state would be required to establish an independent, bi-partisan redistricting commission of at least five members to draw that state’s Congressional district map one time after each decennial census. The Majority and Minority parties in both the upper and lower houses of the state legislature would appoint an even number of commissioners, who would then elect an additional commissioner to serve as the panel’s chair. Commission members may not reside in the same county as any other member and are limited in their past and future political involvement.Redistricting commissions would be required to respect the minority voting rights established by the Constitution and Voting Rights Act, as well as communities of interest, population, and geography when drawing each district. Commission meetings would be conducted publicly and the commission’s report would have to be approved by the Governor and the state legislature without amendment. H.R. 4094 would go into effect upon the date of enactment.
11.08.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072In yesterday's special election, California voters struck down all of Governor Schwarzenegger’s proposed initiatives. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, offered the following statement on the election results:“The California Democratic Congressional Delegation agrees with California voters that Proposition 77 was not right for our state. While Californians decisively voted against this ill-conceived redistricting initiative, my California Democratic colleagues and I believe real redistricting reform remains an important issue that needs to be addressed. This is why I introduced H.R. 4094, the Redistricting Reform Act of 2005, last month. This bill, co-sponsored by many members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation including Democratic Leader Pelosi, would establish independent, bi-partisan commissions in every state and also prohibit mid-decade redistricting. H.R. 4094 is a step in the right direction and would make sure that every state in the union plays by the same rules.“Californians showed across the board that the Governor’s measures were bad for our state, and that this unnecessary election was a waste of our time and money. I hope the Governor will stop playing Republican politics, work harder for California, and help stop the Republican budget cuts in Congress that would take millions more away from our already underfunded state.”
10.26.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072 — The Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Congressional Human Rights Caucus today held a briefing examining the Vietnamese government’s oppression of religious beliefs and practices. Advocates for international religious freedom gave expert testimony on the current violations of religious freedom in Vietnam and offered mechanisms for improvement in the country. The follow remarks were given by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), chair of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, to open the briefing:“I would like to welcome all of you to our briefing on the current state of religious freedom in Vietnam. I would like to thank the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, specifically Mr. Lantos and Mr. Wolf, for co-chairing this briefing with the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. I’d also like to give a special thanks to our witnesses for being here, especially our witnesses who flew from San Jose, California, my district, and even as far away as France to be here today. The effort taken to be here today by these witnesses speaks volumes about the severity of the problem we will examine today. The dismal state of religious freedom in Vietnam needs to be exposed and I am pleased that you are all here to help us raise awareness in Congress and in the public.It is discouraging to me that we have to continuously hold these Congressional briefings on Vietnam. I certainly look forward, in great anticipation, to the day when we no longer need these briefings because human rights are finally respected in Vietnam. Over the past several years, Vietnam has begun to integrate itself into the global community. Its relationship with the United States has grown immensely, both economically and politically. Unfortunately, Vietnamese citizens are still being persecuted for their religious beliefs and practices. The 80 million people that live in Vietnam practice several different religions. Approximately half of those residing in Vietnam are Buddhist, 8 to 10 % of the population is Roman Catholic, 1.5 to 4% belong to the Hoa Hao, 1.5 to 3% make up the Cao Dai, .5 to 2% is Protestant, and another .5% is Muslim. The rest of the population consider themselves non-religious. While in theory the Vietnamese Constitution and government decrees provide for freedom of religious belief and practice, other provisions of the Constitution allow the government to arbitrarily declare a religion a national security threat. Only those religious organizations that are recognized by the government are legal. This means that the government arbitrarily restricts and controls religious activity by denying certain religious sects permission to gather and freely practice their religion. According to the State Department’s 2004 International Religious Freedom report on Vietnam, “there [have been] no known cases in recent years in which the courts acted to interpret laws to protect a person’s right to religious freedom.” The Vietnamese government further restricts religious beliefs and practices by requiring all religious publishing to be done through the Religious Publishing House, which is operated by the Office of Religious Affairs. Not only does the government control what religious materials may be printed, but it also controls the quantity of materials printed. As a result, Bibles in ethnic minority languages are often in short supply. Due to these types of systematic infringements upon religious freedom in Vietnam, the U.S. State Department, in September 2004, designated Vietnam a country of particular concern (CPC). Such a designation requires the U.S. government to urge Vietnam, through diplomatic and economic avenues, to reform its stance on the treatment and recognition of religious beliefs and practices. According to the United States Commission on Religious Freedom’s Annual Report on Vietnam, Vietnam released some prominent advocates of free speech, freedom of religion, and democracy advocates in response to its CPC designation. Dr. Nguyen Dan Que, Nguyen Dinh Huy, and Thich Thien Minh were released, along with Father Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly who was imprisoned after submitting written testimony to the US Commission in 2001. Unfortunately, it has been reported that those released are under constant surveillance. Furthermore, several others remain in prison.Following CPC designation, Vietnam responded with only a few other cosmetic actions to improve religious freedom. The Vietnamese Prime Minister issued “Instructions on Protestantism,” which, according to the US Commission “purports to allow Protestant ¥house churches’ in the Central Highlands and northwest provinces to operate legally, if they renounce connections to groups that Hanoi has accused of organizing anti-government protests.” Furthermore, while the “Instructions” prohibit forced renunciation, there are no criminal penalties. At the same time, the Prime Minister issued a decree that purports to affirm religious freedom in Vietnam while also prohibiting religious activities that “undermine peace, independence and national unity; incite violence or wage war; disseminate information against prevailing State law and policies; sow division among the people, ethnic groups, and religions; cause public disorder; do harm to other people’s lives, health, dignity, honor, and property; hinder people from exercising their public obligations; spread superstitious practices and commit acts to breach the law.”In May 2005, the State Department announced that it had reached an agreement with the Vietnamese government regarding religious freedom. Unfortunately, the agreement allowed Vietnam to escape the sanctions that are normally imposed upon countries following a CPC designation. Considering Vietnam’s very weak response to CPC designation, the State Department should have carried through with the typical requirements of a CPC designation. Raising the topic of human rights violations in meetings between Prime Minister Khai and President Bush as was done in June 2005 is not enough; positive and affirmative action is needed. Despite tireless efforts by many courageous religious leaders who risk imprisonment like the witnesses here today, many actions from members of the U.S. Congress, and CPC designation, the Vietnamese government maintains its ability to control religious beliefs and practices through its power to recognize or deny recognition to religious organizations. This blatant denial of full religious freedom for its citizens, coupled with the inability of citizens to receive protection from the courts, has led me and many others to recognize human rights violations that are taking place under the umbrella of national solidarity. Until Vietnam stops oppressing its people, the Commission on International Religious Freedom, representatives for religious organizations from Vietnam, Members of Congress, and other organizations and individuals will continue to speak out to raise awareness of religious freedom violations in Vietnam. Those of us in Congress will form and participate in Congressional Caucuses that focus on human rights abuses in Vietnam, we will continue to advocate for legislation such as the Vietnam Human Rights Act, and we will continue to hold briefings, like this one, to inform Congress and the public of Vietnam’s government-sanctioned abuses of religious freedom. The world is watching and we will not cease until we see improvements in Vietnam.”
10.19.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072 To mark the conclusion of Hispanic Heritage Month on October 15th, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) calls on the House to pass H.R. 2134, the “National Museum of the American Latino Community Commission Act of 2005.” The bill, co-sponsored by Rep. Lofgren and 74 other Representatives, was introduced in May.“Despite the history, demography and ongoing contributions that American Latinos have made and continue to make to the cultural life of our country, there remains a great gap in the level and quality of awareness that Americans possess about the rich and diverse character of Latino culture and history,” said Rep. Lofgren.Latinos are the largest ethnic minority group in the United States, and California is home to 12.4 million Hispanics. By 2025, one of every four Americans will be of Latino heritage. Yet scarcely any of the permanent exhibits in Washington museums commemorate the American Latino community’s cultural contributions. When signed into law, H.R. 2134 will set up a 23 member commission charged with producing a national conference to bring stakeholders, experts, policymakers and other interested parties together to discuss the museum’s viability; a fundraising plan to create an extensive public-private partnership; and a report to congress detailing a recommended plan of action on how to move forward with taking the museum from concept to reality. All of these actions will occur within 18 months of the bill’s passage.“When American and foreign tourists visit Washington, they expect to gain a better understanding of our collective history and culture,” Rep. Lofgren said. “This bipartisan bill would take the next step toward ensuring that the lessons taught by our premier institutions for the arts, humanities, and American history include a better representation of Latino contributions. Children who visit the museums in Washington should have the opportunity to learn the full history of who we are and who we are becoming as Americans.”
10.19.2005	Media Contact: Kyra Jennings, 202.225.3072 Earlier today, a spokeswoman for the California Republican Party said, “Unless President Bush is coming to California to hand over a check from the federal government to help us with the financial challenges we face, the visit seems ill timed."Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) offered this response:“I could not agree more. President Bush is not ¥coming to California to hand over a check from the federal government,’ because the Governor has not been the “Collectinator” as he promised. Instead of being strong enough to stand up for Californians and get President Bush to deliver for our state, Governor Schwarzenegger is avoiding the President so he can run around campaigning for a special election that voters don’t want.”
09.30.2005	Media Contact: David Thomas, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Lofgren (D- San Jose) today announced that the County of Santa Clara and the Santa Clara County Social Services Agency have been awarded over $1.5 million dollars in grant money from the Department of Justice to combat domestic violence. The grants will be used to continue and expand programs that encourage pro-arrest policies and provide coordinated community response programs for victims of domestic violence. The grant announcement comes on the heels of approval by the House of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2005 on Wednesday. The VAWA Reauthorization was passed as part of the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, HR 3402, by a 415-4 vote, and contained much of the language from the VAWA 2005 Reauthorization Act introduced by Congresswoman Lofgren earlier this year. For more information on Congresswoman Lofgren’s bill for VAWA reauthorization, please visit: http://www.house.govpr_053005_VAWA.html.“Preventing and responding to domestic violence is an important responsibility of society, and I am pleased that the House voted to reauthorize this important legislation” said Congresswoman Lofgren. “However, it is not enough to pass legislation like the Violence Against Women Act into law, it is also imperative that the government supply funding to implement these programs. These programs can make a difference- since VAWA was passed in 1994, Santa Clara County has seen a thirty percent reduction in reported domestic violence incidents. By providing a comprehensive response team for victims of domestic violence, and expanding the language capabilities of our service providers, I am hopeful that we can eradicate domestic violence in the Santa Clara Valley community.” The $1,184,945 dollar grant to Santa Clara County will help the County to fulfill provisions of the Violence Against Women Act, which was initially passed in 1994 and renewed in 2000. The grant will allow the county to maintain the Domestic Violence Response Team program, which provides an immediate response team consisting of an officer, a victim advocate, and a social worker. The grant will also be used to expand the Victim Advocacy program to include an additional bilingual Spanish-English advocate, and expand outreach to Asian immigrant victims by hiring three additional advocates for the Language Bank program. Additionally, with this funding Santa Clara County will continue to provide domestic violence victims access to legal advocacy; and will conduct a safety and accountability audit of the Santa Clara County criminal justice system.The $350,000 dollar grant to the Santa Clara County Social Services Agency will fund the fifth and final year of the Green Book Initiative, a program which creates and enhances collaborations among domestic violence service providers and the criminal justice system. During this implementation and evaluation phase, the program will work to ensure that every adult victim and child has an advocate, and that the coordinated services are culturally competent and relevant.Project partners include the Santa Clara County Office of Sherriff, the Santa Clara County Superior Court, the Gilroy Police Department, the Los Altos Police Department, the Morgan Hill Police Department, the Mountain View Police Department, the Palo Alto Police Department, Sunnyvale Public Safety, Asian Americans for Community Involvement, Community Solutions, Maitri, Next Door Solutions to Domestic Violence, and the Support Network for Battered Women.
09.29.2005	Media Contact: David Thomas, 202.225.3072Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D - San Jose) today announced that the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Crime Laboratory has been awarded two grants to assist the processing of DNA evidence. The Crime Laboratory received a $96,492 dollar grant to increase the lab’s capacity to process DNA evidence, and a $79,937 dollar grant to reduce the backlog of cases involving DNA evidence.“Providing funding for DNA technology is important aspect of crime reduction efforts,” Congresswoman Lofgren said. “Currently, there are over 170 backlogged samples in the Crime Laboratory. This grant will allow the lab to hire an additional forensic scientist to process those cases and help prevent a backlog in the future.” In addition to this earmarked funding, Congresswoman Lofgren explained that “the DNA Capacity Enhancement grant will allow the lab to update its infrastructure so that DNA samples can be processed efficiently and cost-effectively. Both of these efforts are important areas to focus our attention on as we seek to identify or exonerate suspects, and bring the guilty to justice.”The grants are a part of Congresswoman Lofgren’s broader efforts to effectively implement and support the use of technology in the criminal process. The Congresswoman recently announced her co-sponsorship of HR 1602, the “Grants for DNA Backlogs Prosecution” bill. This bipartisan bill will provide funding for the prosecution of cases which have already been solved using DNA technology.
09.28.2005	Media Contact: David Thomas, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Congressman Mike Honda (D-San Jose) today announced that the Community Health Partnership of Santa Clara County has been awarded a grant for $864,122 from the Healthy Community Access Program. This funding will improve access to health services and increase the quality of medical care for uninsured and underinsured residents of Santa Clara County.“I am delighted that the Community Health Partnership and the Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospitals System have been awarded this funding,” said Congresswoman Lofgren. “The grant will go a long way towards addressing the health care needs of the many residents of the valley who rely on community health centers. Last year, in the 16th congressional district alone, over 53,000 residents utilized these vital health centers over 175,000 times. By hiring more staff, better utilizing information technology and expanding training opportunities these two groups will be able to provide the level of medical services necessary to keep our community healthy.”“My home district has some 25, 868 community health center patients, resulting in nearly 93,000 community health center visits each year,” Congressman Honda said. “By securing this much-needed funding for the Healthy Community Access Program, we have moved one step closer to closing the gap in coverage for those who are underinsured or without any insurance.”The Community Health Partnership, in collaboration with the Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital System (SCVHHS), will use the funding to increase staffing levels, purchase information technology equipment and increase connectivity between member community health centers and SCVHHS. The grant will also be used for clinical consultations to develop specialty care clinical guidelines. Member community health centers will receive funding to prepare their internal systems and train their physicians. The Healthy Communities Access Program (HCAP) provides grant funding and technical assistance to consortia of public and private healthcare providers — as well as social service, local government and other community-based organizations — to work together to coordinate and improve health services for the uninsured and underinsured in their local communities. Over $400 million has been invested in 228 consortia to develop and reinforce community-based collaborations since the program began as a demonstration project in the 2000 fiscal year.
09.21.2005	Media Contact: David Thomas, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Lofgren (D-CA) today announced her support for HR 1602, the “Grants for DNA Backlogs Prosecution” bill. This bipartisan bill will provide funding for the prosecution of cases which have been solved using new DNA technology. In 2004, Congress began a five-year, billion-dollar “DNA initiative” to process old DNA samples from crime scenes and enter them into a matching database. In California alone, this effort has yielded three new cold-hit cases per day. However, the bill did not provide funding for the prosecution of these crimes. HR 1602 will create a 5-year, $100 million per year grant program to enable prosecutors to hire and train staff to prosecute these cases. With this funding, at California salary schedules, approximately 400 unsolved cold hit homicide cases per year or 2,000 unsolved cold hit sexual assault cases per year could be addressed.“DNA technology has emerged as an important tool for both identifying and exonerating people accused of crimes,” Congresswoman Lofgren said in a statement today. “Simply identifying criminals is not enough. Congress must now take the next responsible step and grant local and federal prosecutors the ability to bring these crimes to trial. This will give closure to the victims and their families, and help prevent future crimes by removing known criminals from the streets. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this bill and approve this funding as soon as possible.” Sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (CA-24), HR 1602 currently has 58 bipartisan cosponsors. The bill has also been endorsed by the National District Attorneys Association, the National Center for Victims of Crime, the California District Attorneys Association, California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, and the California State Sherriffs’ Association.
09.13.2005	Residents and Business Will See Flood Insurance ReliefMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 September 13, 2005 Congresswoman Lofgren (D - San Jose) today announced the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will expedite the map revisions process so that the Federal flood insurance requirement can be eliminated for residents and businesses affected by the Guadalupe River Flood Protection Project in the cities of San Jose and Santa Clara. This will offer relief from the high cost of flood insurance for thousands of residents and businesses in the Guadalupe River area.Approximately 3,500 property owners will be eligible for a substantial reduction in their flood insurance after October 6, 2005 when the new maps are effective. The savings would amount to a 40 percent reduction in insurance rates for about 3,500 property owners. Currently, pre-discounted flood insurance rates are just over $1000 for a median priced home. After the final flood map is approved in about 18 months to two years, the need to carry flood insurance will be eliminated all together. However, homeowners are encouraged to maintain some flood insurance for their residences, which is likely to be more affordable now that flood exposure has been dramatically reduced through the flood control project."I am pleased to have seen the Guadalupe River Flood Protection Project through. Unfortunately, we now know what can happen when areas that are prone to flooding are not protected; and we have also seen how important it is for us to provide assistance for families who would be affected," said Congresswoman Lofgren. "Now that we have accomplished the task of providing protection, I am happy that San Jose residents will be able to save money on their homeowners insurance."As a member of Congress and in her role on the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, Lofgren has worked to get federal funding for the Guadalupe River Flood Protection Project, in order to protect the community from the known threat of flooding in a way that is environmentally sensitive.“We have learned a tremendous amount from the recent tragedy caused by Hurricane Katrina and it is crucial that our community is protected from the devastating effects of flooding,” said Richard P. Santos, chairman of the Santa Clara Valley Water District Board of Directors. “This project provides flood protection for approximately 100,000 people. The reduction of flood insurance premiums is an added bonus for the community that further promotes economic vitality to one of the nation’s most important business zones.”The Santa Clara Valley Water District and the Corps of Engineers have completed substantial flood protection improvements on the Guadalupe River providing protection form the river's base flood with critical freeboard from Interstate 280 downstream to the Union Pacific Railroad in Alviso, thereby eliminating previously mapped flood hazards.
09.13.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Two bipartisan pieces of legislation to improve the Department of Homeland Security's capacity for protecting critical cyber infrastructure and managing broad science and technology issues were introduced today by U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA).Thornberry is chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Science, and Research and Development. Lofgren is the subcommittee's ranking member.Of the cyber legislation, Thornberry said the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) must establish the coherent cybersecurity framework essential to our nation's security. "As threats to the cyber infrastructure increase, it is clear that the United States must pay closer attention and do more to protect our cybersecurity."Lofgren noted the cybersecurity bill has wide support in the technology, education, financial and business sectors. "During the past year and a half, the subcommittee has heard from numerous experts about the need to address the increasing threats and vulnerabilities facing our nation's computer networks and systems. Our legislation will strengthen the Department's cybersecurity efforts and make sure the appropriate person within DHS has the authority and direction to get the job done."The science and technology bill requires the DHS to establish a program to transfer and commercialize promising technologies for use by the federal, state and local government agencies and the private sector."The Science and Technology Directorate is making progress, but we want to help the Department focus on working with the private sector and to establish a formal program to improve the interoperability of public safety communications," said Thornberry.Lofgren said "being from Silicon Valley, I have seen first hand the amazing things that result from solid research and development. I believe the Department must invest more time, more money and more energy to R&D. Our legislation will help the Department develop the cutting-edge technologies needed to win the war on terror."Thornberry and Lofgren both noted the urgency of the issues addressed by the two bills and expressed hope for swift passage by the House.
09.02.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) returned to Washington today and delivered the following statement on the House floor regarding the Hurricane Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill:“On behalf of the people of San Jose, California, I extend my deepest condolences to the thousands who have lost family and friends and to those who are still searching for loved ones. As the Chairperson of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, I want to let the people suffering today know that we care and that we Californians stand with them.“The people of California have also faced natural disasters in the form of earthquakes, floods and fires. I recall the Loma Prieta earthquake on October 17, 1989 that measured 7.1 on the Richter scale. Sixteen years have passed, but everyone that lives in the Bay Area remembers where we were when the earthquake struck. Americans everywhere stood with Californians and this gave us the strength we needed to recover, rebound and rebuild. “As difficult as that earthquake was for us in California, the situation on the Gulf Coast is infinitely more challenging. “Homes across the Gulf Coast are gone. People are left with nothing but the clothes on their back. Biloxi, Gulfport, Pass Christian, Bay St. Louis, Waveland, Kiln, Slidell and others towns barely exist. “And our nation has never had a city in the desperate shape that New Orleans finds itself in right now. The rule of law has broken down. People at the Superdome and the Convention Center are suffering in ways that are just not seen in our country in the 21st Century. Mayor Nagin has said that thousands may be dead in New Orleans. This is an unprecedented human tragedy. “As a nation we must be steadfast and commit ourselves to save these people. “We must stand with all the people of the Gulf Coast and let them know that we are here today to help them get back on your feet. We are here to lend you a shoulder to lean on. We will be with you as long as it takes to help you get your lives in order, as long as it takes to get your cities back. “The people of the Gulf Coast have experienced Hell on Earth over the past week. They will face challenges in the coming days, weeks, and months that are almost unimaginable. People are hungry, sick, homeless and desperate. This storm has hit everyone hard, and it has hit the poor hardest of all. “The federal response to this disaster has been too little and it has been too slow. This situation must change and it must change right now. “Last night I flew across our great country to be here today to participate in this emergency session of Congress. It is important that the necessary resources be provided for this disaster. But action and leadership by the Administration is desperately needed right now. There are dead bodies floating in New Orleans as we speak here. There are our fellow Americans who have been without the help they need for this entire week. I do not believe that our federal government is incapable of mobilizing to meet this disaster. The problem is that we have not yet done so as comprehensively as is necessary. Even the President stated today that the response of his administration has been inadequate.“There will be plenty of opportunity in the months to come to analyze what we could have done better. But today our task is simply to do better — to engage in a massive mobilization to save the lives of our fellow citizens and to end the chaos that has descended upon New Orleans and other areas devastated by this hurricane.“Our nation stands united with the victims of this ruthless storm. Our fellow citizens from Mobile, Alabama to New Orleans, Louisiana need to know that they have our commitment to do all we can do. The bill we pass today is just a start. We will recover. We will rebuild. We will prevail. “In the days and weeks to come, the Congress will have many tasks before it, from fully funding the Army Corps’ effort to revising the bankruptcy law so that the victims who have lost their homes can have a fresh start. But today, we call on you Mr. President, Article 2, Section 1; the executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States. We expect that the resources, the food, the water, the resources, the health care, the evacuation, the shelter, will be brought to bear so that our fellow citizens can end their suffering.”
09.01.2005	Federal, County and City Initiatives Celebrate Focus on YouthMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) joined by County Supervisor Blanca Alvarado and San Jose Councilmember Nora Campos, gathered today for an event focused on Federal, County and City initiatives in the Alum Rock Area. With the start of the new school year, leaders in the Eastside community highlighted new initiatives focused on youth, including programs such as the “Weed and Seed” effort and the Santa Clara County Juvenile Detention Reform Initiative.Last May, Congresswoman Lofgren announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has approved $175,000 grant for the Weed and Seed Program for East San Jose. The Weed and Seed program is a community-based, comprehensive, multi-agency approach to combating violent crime, drug use and gang activity in at-risk neighborhoods. The implementation of this strategy is overseen by a steering committee made up of a collaboration of key stakeholders in the area, including the U.S. Attorney’s office; federal, state and local law enforcement; the business community; educational institutions; and area residents.“The Weed and Seed program has two parts, the first designed to ¥weed out’ drugs and violent crime, and the second to plant the seeds of renewal,” said Rep. Lofgren. “I look forward to watching the Weed and Seed efforts grow and improve the community one block at a time, by sustaining safe housing for the residents, expanding ongoing neighborhood clean-up programs and providing job training and employment opportunities for residents.” In addition to the Weed and Seed program, Congresswoman Lofgren secured a $400,000 appropriation in Congress in the Fiscal Year 2006 Science, State — Justice- Commerce appropriations bill that passed the House on June 16, 2005 for the Santa Clara County Juvenile Detention Reform Initiative. The Juvenile Detention Reform (JDR) initiative is critical part of Santa Clara County’s effort to reform their juvenile justice system. The initiative brings together individuals from probation and law enforcement as well as mental health and substance abuse professionals, the faith community, and youth advocates to address the disproportionate confinement of minority youth in juvenile facilities. The bill now needs Senate approval. “We know first-hand that the Santa Clara County Juvenile Detention Reform Initiative program has helped greatly to reduce the number of incarcerated youth by helping young people lead more law abiding lives. I am pleased that the Alum Rock community will receive additional funding to continue these efforts,” Lofgren continued.
07.27.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Lofgren (D-San Jose) today offered the following statement regarding H.R. 3045, the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA):“Since I became a member of Congress in 1995, I have voted in favor of an overwhelming majority of free trade agreements and trade related bills. I believe trade is good for this country, California, and the countries we trade with. Without sufficient consultation with Congress, the Bush Administration drafted the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) with misguided copyright provisions and also missed an opportunity to lift and improve Central American countries still struggling to recover from years of conflict and poverty. American prosperity and security will be sustained when we take concrete steps to move impoverished nations forward. Let’s ask the President to bring to Congress a better agreement we can all approve.”
07.15.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced the Children’s Discovery Museum of San Jose will receive a $150,000 grant as part of the Vietnamese Audience Development Initiative. The funding will be matched with a grantee match of $391,800.“I am proud that San Jose is home to the largest Vietnamese population in America. Through the Vietnamese Audience Development Initiative at the Children’s Discovery Museum, the museum seeks to attract more Vietnamese visitors and provide exciting new opportunities to educate our community about diversity and culture,” said Rep. Lofgren. “I look forward to exploring the new exhibits throughout the Children’s Discovery Museum when they are completed.”
07.13.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today offered the following statement in response to news that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is creating the post of Assistant Secretary for Cyber Security and Telecommunications as part of a larger reorganization of the Department:“I am gratified to see that Secertary Chertoff has recognized the importance of creating the position of Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity and Telecommunications within the Department of Homeland Security. At this higher level, the Assistant Secretary will be able to coordinate better with Secretary Chertoff, as well as officials throughout the Department, other federal agencies, and the private sector. The position will allow the Department to better protect our nation’s cyber infrastructure from attacks by hackers, criminals and terrorists and to help ensure that cybersecurity is a priority in our nation’s homeland security strategy.”Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Mac Thornberry (R-TX) first introduced legislation to create an Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity within the Department of Homeland Security during the 108th Congress when they served as the ranking member and chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity. The proposal was approved by the House of Representatives as part of H.R. 10, the House-passed version of last year's intelligence reform bill, but was not included in the final intelligence reform legislation approved by Congress and signed by the President. Lofgren and Thornberry reintroduced this legislation in January, 2005. The bill, known as "the Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2005” (H.R. 285), has received strong bipartisan support in the House, the private sector and academia.
06.30.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren and 111 of her Democratic colleagues introduced the VAWA 2005 Reauthorization Act, a bill that will reauthorize programs under the Violence Against Women Act and recommit America to ending domestic violence and sexual abuse. Among those joining Rep. Lofgren were all Democratic women in the House of Representatives, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi; Co-Chair and Co-Vice Chair of the House Women’s Caucus Rep. Hilda Solis and Rep. Lois Capps; and Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Louise Slaughter, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Carolyn Maloney and Gwen Moore, each of whom contributed significant provisions to VAWA 2005. Supporters also include every Ranking Member on committees of jurisdiction over VAWA 2005 (Judiciary, Financial Services, Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Education and the Workforce), and every Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee. The current Violence Against Women Act is set to expire on September 30, 2005.VAWA 2005 is a comprehensive bill that not only reauthorizes current programs, but also includes many provisions that have not been dealt with in any other VAWA bill, including better economic security for victims of violence, increased protections for battered immigrants, enhanced protection of victims' personal information and new programs designed to prevent domestic violence before it occurs. "VAWA has been a success, but the statistics on domestic violence remain alarming. Nearly one in four women will experience domestic violence during her lifetime. It is vital that we fight for a complete bill so that we can provide all the tools necessary to put a stop to domestic violence and sexual abuse," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). "Women should feel safe in their homes, and they should feel safe walking the street," said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. "I applaud Congresswoman Lofgren for her work to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. This bill sends a strong message: we will not tolerate violence, abuse, and sexual assault against women. I look forward to working with my colleagues to reauthorize VAWA this year and to fund it adequately every year."“In reauthorizing VAWA, we must focus on the needs of all women. Although domestic violence is blind to race or ethnicity, racial and ethnic minority women and immigrant women, especially, face unique challenges to reporting and getting help for domestic violence. Our efforts to end domestic violence must address factors like cultural differences, linguistic differences and immigration,” said Rep. Hilda L. Solis (D-CA), Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group."Despite the successes of the Violence Against Women Act, we must broaden our approach to domestic violence. It is a health care issue of epidemic proportions, yet is dealt with almost exclusively as a criminal justice issue. Health care professionals are often the only people a victim has contact with outside of an abusive home, and they need the training and assistance provided for in this bill to end this cycle of abuse," said Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), Co-Vice Chair of the House Women’s Caucus.“There is a perverse incentive in the U.S. for immigrant women to stay with their abusive spouses in order to preserve their immigration status,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “The VAWA 2005 Reauthorization Act will help immigrant women who need to leave their abusive spouses by preventing their deportation and providing them access to work permits and legal and social services.”"Economic security is essential to breaking the cycle of abuse for victims of domestic violence," Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) said. "I'm pleased Congresswoman Lofgren included the SAFE Act in her bill. The provisions are critical to empowering women to be financially free of their abusers."“We have come a long way since the initial passage of VAWA. But there is no doubt we have a long way to go. The renewal of VAWA, along with its new provisions, will make great strides in helping millions of survivors find safety, security, and self-sufficiency. I also am pleased that my bill, the Badge and Uniform Security and Trustworthiness Act, is included in this important piece of legislation,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY). “This provision will make it more difficult for rapists and other attackers to pose as police officers and public officials in order to target women.”"In the past, present and future, VAWA has been, is, and will continue to be a critical tool to combat violence," said Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). "It has helped decrease instances of rape by almost two-thirds since 1993, but still every two and a half minutes someone is sexually assaulted in our country. Not only do we need to reauthorize VAWA, but it should contain new language to guarantee rape victims the medical option of Emergency Contraceptives after they have been assaulted. We should do everything we can to help rape victims recover, not withhold important medical options from them.""VAWA expires on September 30, 2005, so it is incumbent upon Members to support this very substantive measure. Our proposed measure includes several very important priorities that have been deemed critical to Democratic principles, including additional protections for victims of human trafficking and a DNA crime registry — both of which will offer relief to young girls and women who have been abused," said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX). “The purpose of domestic violence shelters is to provide a safe place where people in need can be assured protection and support. Under the current HUD rules, the identities of hundreds of thousands will be exposed, making it possible for those who wish to hurt or even kill them to discover their whereabouts,” said Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI). “The SHIELD Act, as part of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, will make certain that the anonymity of victims of domestic violence and their dependents remains secure.”
06.27.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today offered the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s decision on Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. v. Grokster:"Today's Grokster decision was a victory for copyright holders, but it was also a victory for the future of technology. The Supreme Court wisely zeroed in on conduct, not technology, by refusing to alter the Sony Betamax standard. I hope that this decision provides the clarity legitimate innovators need to develop new and exciting technologies without the incessant threat of copyright litigation."
06.08.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), today delivered the following statement during a Committee on House Administration markup hearing of HR1316, the 527 Fairness Act of 2005. The legislation would remove accumulated hard-money contribution limits on federal committees and parties and remove spending limits imposed on national political parties in a given election cycle. As prepared for delivery:"There has been a lot of talk about Watergate in the past week. The revelation that W. Mark Felt was Deep Throat has given us the opportunity to look back at this tumultuous time in our Nation's history. It is hard to believe that over thirty-two years ago Senator Sam Ervin opened the Senate hearing into the Watergate scandal. Senator Ervin's historic hearings revealed a pattern of contempt for the law by the administration of President Richard Nixon."A little over a year later, on July 27, 1974, the House Judiciary Committee passed the first of three articles of impeachment, charging President Nixon with obstruction of justice. The vote was 27 to 11, with 6 of the committee's 17 Republicans joining all 21 Democrats in voting to send the article to the House. Then on July 29 the second article, abuse of power, was passed, and on July 30 the third, contempt of Congress, was also passed. Less than two weeks later, President Nixon resigned."During that crisis, I served as a Congressional advisor to Congressman Don Edwards (D-CA). Congressman Edwards served on the Judiciary Committee during the hearing on impeachment. My service to Congressman Edwards at this time was one of the most challenging experiences of my entire career in public service."The actions of the Nixon Administration were shocking: breaking into the Democratic National Committee, dirty tricks, enemies list, large sums of money going unreported, lies, intimidation, abuse of power, corruption, and most notoriously, a cover-up. "The Watergate scandal was the most serious Constitutional crisis of the 20th Century, however, something positive came out of these events. Out of Watergate came comprehensive reforms that helped to clean up and improve our political process. Among other things, the 1974 amendments to the Federal Election Campaign Act (commonly referred to as the Watergate Reform Legislation) set aggregate limits on the amount of total contributions an individual can give to political parties. "The bill that we are marking up today will throw out the reforms that came out of the Watergate scandal. Do we really want to do away with the reforms that were made to fix our political system over 30 years ago?"I'm afraid this bill is just another example of the contempt that the House Republicans have for rules. If they don't like a rule, they just change it. That is what Senator Frist tried to do last month in the Senate with the filibuster. That is what the House Republicans attempted to do with the Ethics Committee at the beginning of the year. “And make no mistake; it is what they are trying to do with this bill. They want to throw out our long-established campaign finance laws. They don't like limits on contributions, so they aim to change the rules. The Republicans control everything - the House, the Senate and the White House. They use this unchecked power to change any rule they don't like.“I will vote against this bill in markup today because I believe our political system does not need more money in it. Here are just a few facts about the 2003-2004 election cycle compiled by The Center for Responsive Politics:Main Party Committees Democratic National Cmte:$311,524,571Republican National Cmte:$392,413,393 House Party Committees Democratic Congressional Campaign Cmte:$92,877,868National Republican Congressional Cmte:$185,719,489 Senate Party Committees Democratic Senatorial Campaign Cmte:$88,657,573National Republican Senatorial Cmte:$78,980,487"Apparently this was not enough cash for my Republican colleagues. They, who so strenuously opposed the Shays/Meehan/McCain /Feingold Campaign Finance Bill just two years ago, are now pushing to throw out aggregate limits on what an individual can give to a political party. The current limit is $101,400 per election cycle, but the supporters of this bill want more. "We do not need to return to the days before Watergate. This bill is a very bad idea. It can not be amended or fixed. I will vote against this bill and I call on my colleagues to do the same."In the Watergate era lots of ordinarily good people got caught up in a web of corruption that emanated from lots of cash for performance in the government and political world. We have enough problems today in that regard as the press has noted in recent cases in the news. Let's not take this step to widen the corruption and deepen the cynicism about the People's government by our fellow Americans."
06.01.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) Thursday introduced H.R. 2687, the Amerasian Naturalization Act, to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide for equal treatment of Amerasians relative to American citizenship. “There is no doubt that Amerasians are the sons and daughters of American fathers. Our American government already made that determination when we admitted them to the United States as legal permanent residents,” said Rep. Lofgren. “These individuals have lived through devastation during war, have been mistreated by their governments because of their mixed race and many now live in the United States, but only as legal permanent residents. Now is the time to treat them as the U.S. citizens they are and give them the equality they deserve.” Unlike other foreign-born offspring of American fathers, Amerasians are required to apply for naturalization and fulfill all the requirements of naturalization like immigrants who do not have U.S. citizen parents. This lengthy process is not ordinarily required of the sons and daughters of American citizens who gain U.S. citizenship based on the American citizenship of their parent. “Amerasians deserve equal treatment under the law. It is time for us to finally close a chapter in our history that has too long denied Amerasians the equality of citizenship based on their father’s American citizenship” Rep Lofgren said. The Amerasian Naturalization Act would confer automatic U.S. citizenship upon Amerasians who legally entered the U.S., or do so in the future, through the Amerasian Homecoming Act of 1988 or Section 204(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. For those who already entered, they would become U.S. citizens upon the effective date of the Amerasian Naturalization Act without having to undergo any additional processes. Those who enter in the future would attain U.S. citizenship once they legally enter and reside in the U.S. through the Amerasian Homecoming Act of 1988 or Section 204(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
05.27.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has approved $175,000 grant for the Weed and Seed Program for East San Jose. The Weed and Seed program is a community-based, comprehensive, multi-agency approach to combating violent crime, drug use and gang activity in at-risk neighborhoods. “This funding will help support the partnership between law enforcement and the community to focus on crime prevention. I am pleased that East San Jose will receive this much needed money to meet the goal of creating safer neighborhoods, and keeping young people off the streets and drug free,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Everyone in San Jose knows that drug and crime prevention programs are essential.”During this project period, law enforcement efforts will focus on reducing the amount of drug-related crime, gang activity and substance abuse in East San Jose. Neighborhood policing strategies will improve community-police relations while working to address safety concerns. Prevention, intervention and treatment goals will leverage additional services for the area and build capacity for safe havens to provide relevant programs. Neighborhood restoration activities will implement neighborhood initiative plans to revitalize the area.The goal of the Weed and Seed program is to weed out crime from designated neighborhoods and seed the designated sites with a wide range of crime and drug prevention programs and human service agency resources to prevent crime from recurring. The implementation of this strategy is overseen by a steering committee made up of a collaboration of key stakeholders in the area, including the U.S. Attorney’s office; federal, state and local law enforcement; the business community; educational institutions; and area residents.
05.26.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 ‹ Today, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report on critical infrastructure protection report, “Department of Homeland Security Faces Challenges in Fulfilling Cybersecurity Responsibilities”. The report comes at the request of Reps. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), who served as Chairman and Ranking member, respectively, on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity in the 108th Congress. “This GAO report only confirms what we have known all along — the DHS has failed to meet the responsibility for critical infrastructure protection. And even worse, this report proves that a national plan to secure our cyber networks is virtually nonexistent,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). “There is no doubt that these vulnerabilities will continue to hamper our homeland security efforts if we do not make cyber security a major priority. As long as our critical infrastructures are interconnected and interdependent, the likelihood that a cyber attack will disrupt major services or cripple our economy will remain and the threat will increase.”Rep. Lofgren is the co-author of H.R. 285, bipartisan legislation that would create an Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity position within the Department of Homeland Security's Information Analysis and Infrastructures Protection Directorate and to shore up cyber protection and telecommunication efforts with the Department of Homeland Security. H.R. 285 passed in the House of Representatives this month as part of the Homeland Security Authorization bill.“The Department needs to be advancing on cyber security. We cannot afford to sit back and make minimal, if any, progress in critical infrastructure protection. It is essential that the DHS establish organizational authority with an assistant secretary for cybersecurity position within the DHS. The individual responsible for leading the government’s cyber security efforts must have more authority within the Department of Homeland Security,” Lofgren continued.
05.18.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 The House Judiciary Committee today passed the “Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2005, H.R. 744, which was introduced by Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-06), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-16) and Lamar Smith (R-TX-21). This bipartisan legislation, which passed the House of Representatives last Congress by a vote of 415-0, addresses the most egregious activities that are conducted via spyware and makes those activities criminal offenses.Spyware has been defined as “software that aids in gathering information about a person or organization without their knowledge and which may send such information to another entity without the consumer’s consent, or asserts control over a computer without the consumer’s knowledge.” In April 2004, the Federal Trade Commission testified before a House Subcommittee that “spyware appears to be a new and rapidly growing practice that poses a risk of serious harm to consumers”.“I am encouraged by the passage of this legislation through the Judiciary Committee,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “I believe that four overarching principles should guide the development of any spyware legislation. First, we must punish the bad actors, while protecting legitimate online companies. Second, we must not over-regulate, but rather encourage innovative new services and the growth of the Internet. Third, we must not stifle the free market. Fourth, we must target the behavior, not the technology. The I-SPY Prevention Act is a targeted approach that protects consumers by imposing stiff penalties on the truly bad actors, while protecting the ability of legitimate companies to develop new and exciting products and services online for consumers.”The legislation would make the following criminal offenses:Intentionally accessing a computer without authorization, or intentionally exceeding authorized access, by causing a computer program or code to be copied onto the computer and using that program or code to -Further another federal criminal offense (punishable by fine or imprisonment for up to 5 years)-Intentionally obtain or transmit “personal information” with the intent of injuring or defrauding a person or damaging a computer (punishable by fine or imprisonment for up to 2 years)-Intentionally impair the security protections of a computer (punishable by fine or imprisonment for up to 2 years)The legislation includes language to preempt States from creating civil remedies based on violations of this act.The legislation also authorizes $10 million to the Department of Justice to combat spyware and phishing scams. “Phishing” scams typically involve the use of fake e-mail messages and websites to lure consumers into providing bank account information, credit card numbers and other personal information. These fake e-mail messages and websites are often indistinguishable from the real ones and often request account information from consumers.“Spyware makes spam look like child’s play and is one of the key reasons why we have an identity theft epidemic in this country,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “The I-SPY Prevention Act is unique because it focuses on behavior, not technology, and it targets the worst forms of spyware without unduly burdening technological innovation. I believe that this legislation will help stem the spyware tide and contribute to a solution that protects businesses and consumers without slowing innovation.”Spyware encompasses several potential risks including the promotion of identity theft, by harvesting personal information from consumers’ computers. Additionally, it can adversely affect businesses, as they are forced to sustain costs to block and remove spyware from employees’ computers, not to mention the potential impact on productivity.“Computer spyware is a growing problem that threatens personal privacy and the future of commerce over the Internet. Each day, thousands of unsuspecting Americans have their identities hijacked through spyware programs. Victims of this crime can spend years trying to restore their good name and credit,” said Rep. Lamar Smith. “Passage of this bill will ensure that those who engage in this type of criminal behavior are punished accordingly.”There is also a growing concern that persistent computer security vulnerabilities may expose U.S. critical infrastructure and government computer systems to cyber attacks, which would ultimately jeopardize national security and the economy.“The Center for Democracy and Technology has seen several egregious examples of spyware being used in ways that most Americans would think clearly ought to be criminal. The Goodlatte, Lofgren, and Smith bill will help make sure that there are strong deterrents to using spyware to defraud or injure consumers,” said Ari Schwartz, Associate Director of the Center for Democracy and Technology, part of a broad coalition of consumer groups addressing the spyware problem.
05.04.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Today, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) called on all Americans to join in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, which began on May 1.“This month is a special opportunity to pay tribute to the contributions of the Asian American and Pacific Islander community, including immigrants, refugees and natives,” said Rep. Lofgren. “More than 13 million Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) make their homes in the United States, many who live in San Jose. They represent a diverse community of backgrounds, cultures and experience and their unique contributions enhance the fabric of our country.”“The Asian American and Pacific Islander community is a fast growing group in the United States,” Rep. Lofgren noted. Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are making valuable contributions to every aspect of American life‹from business to education to science and the arts. “As we celebrate the significant progress made by Asian American and Pacific Islanders, it is right for us to also take a moment to honor the memory of Congressman Robert Matsui, who made countless contributions to the AAPI community and was a champion for all of America’s seniors,” Rep. Lofgren continued. “It is appropriate that this year’s theme for Pacific American Heritage Month is ¥Liberty and Freedom for All.’ Despite the great progress that we have made, we still have a long way to go in ensuring equality and expanding opportunities so that all Americans have a chance to achieve their full potential,” said Lofgren. “I join with all Americans in celebrating this rich and diverse culture, and I encourage every citizen to recognize the role of Asian and Pacific Islander Americans and their contributions to our Nation.”
05.03.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 — Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-San Jose) today submitted the following statement to the House record in support of H. Res. 226, marking the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Republic of Vietnam and honors the contributions of Vietnamese-Americans to American society over the past three decades. Rep Lofgren is an original co-sponsor of the resolution:“Mr. Speaker, I rise as a coauthor in strong support of H.Res. 228, a resolution that marks the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Republic of Vietnam and that honors the contributions of Vietnamese-Americans to American society over the past three decades. “April 30, 1975 marked a very somber day for millions of people when the Republic of Vietnam fell to Communist forces from North Vietnam. Instantly, the world was faced with millions of refugees, many who resettled in the United States, but also hundreds of thousands who perished at sea in their attempt to escape Communist forces. Those who remained in Vietnam were forced to re-education camps and detention as their punishment. “Unfortunately, to this day, the Vietnamese Communist government continues to violate basic human rights of its own citizens. As it has been documented by various State Department reports, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Amnesty International and various Vietnamese-American groups, the Vietnamese government has been an egregious violator of religious freedom, human rights, and free speech. The government in Vietnam has continuously imprisoned religious figures who simply want to practice their faith, journalists attempting to print basic information about the actions of their government, and democratic activists in Vietnam. Vietnamese-Americans are playing a vital role to ensure that the Vietnamese government improves its human rights record, but much work remains to be done. “Even though April 30th, 2005 marks the 30th anniversary of a very sad day for millions of Vietnamese and American families whose sons and daughters gave the ultimate sacrifice during the Vietnam War, it is also a day to enthusiastically commend countless contributions that millions of Vietnamese-Americans have made in the United States. In just 30 years, 1.5 million Vietnamese refugees rebuilt their lives to become leaders in education, business, and government in the United States and have greatly enriched the cultural diversity of our country.“So today I rise to remember the sacrifice of American and Vietnamese soldiers who fought for democracy in Vietnam and for their families who suffered their loss and injury. But I also rise to commend millions of courageous Vietnamese-Americans who have successfully rebuilt their lives in the United States while fighting to improve the human rights situation for their brothers and sisters left in Vietnam.”
04.20.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Mac Thornberry (R-TX) today applauded the passage of H.R. 285 by the House Homeland Security subcommittee on economic security, infrastructure protection and cybersecurity. The bipartisan legislation would create an Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity position within the Department of Homeland Security's Information Analysis and Infrastructures Protection Directorate and to shore up cyber protection and telecommunication efforts with the Department of Homeland Security. The legislation, also known as "the Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2005" will allow for the Assistant Secretary to have primary authority within the Department for all cybersecurity-related critical infrastructure protection programs of the Department. Next, the bill moves on to the full committee for consideration.“The Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity position, at this higher level, will be better able to coordinate with other assistant secretaries within the Directorate, as well as officials throughout the Department, other federal agencies, and the private sector,” said Rep. Lofgren. “The Department needs to be advancing on cybersecurity and I am pleased that this bill will help ensure that cybersecurity is a priority in our nation’s homeland security.”“All of us in our daily lives depend on the reliability of hundreds of computer networks, and we must protect those networks from attacks by criminals or terrorists,” said Rep. Thornberry. “This bill will help make sure our government is devoting the proper amount of attention to cybersecurity. I am grateful to Ms. Lofgren for her leadership and expertise which shepherded H.R. 285 through the committee process.”The bill received strong support from the technology, academic, and financial sectors. The Assistant Secretary position would serve under the direction of the Secretary, would be situated within the Directorate for Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection, and would hold authority over the National Communications System.“This bill is bipartisan in nature and was written the at direction of Mac Thornberry and myself in our roles as leaders of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee last year,” Lofgren continued. “I want to thank Congressman Thornberry and the staff which worked together as a bipartisan team, for their collaboration and hard work on this bill.”The Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2005, was first introduced by Reps. Lofgren and Thornberry in the second session of the 108th Congress. The establishment of a new Assistant Secretary position was ultimately approved by the House as part of H.R. 10, the House-passed version of last year's intelligence reform bill, but was not included in the final intelligence reform legislation approved by Congress and signed by the President.
04.01.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) today announced San Jose will receive a $14,539,953 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to install guidance signs, rehabilitate taxiway and widen the taxiway at the Norman Y. Mineta International Airport. "In order to assure that the Silicon Valley keep pace with growing demand and soar with the economy, we must have a reliable, efficient and secure transportation system," said Rep. Lofgren. "This money will help maintain safety and functionality, and help to meet the demands that are placed on our airport.”
02.26.2005	Say President’s plan to privatize Social Security undermines retirement security for all AmericansMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose), Mike Honda (D- San Jose) and Sam Farr (D- Santa Cruz) today held two back-to-back town hall forums with members in their communities to listen to their opinions about the Bush Administration’s proposal to privatize Social Security.For nearly 70 years, Social Security has been an American success story that safeguards independence and economic security for our nation's seniors. The President’s proposal would undermine retirement security for all Americans by cutting guaranteed Social Security benefits by nearly 50 percent, and the risky private accounts he has proposed won’t make up the loss in benefits for millions of Americans. “Social Security not only helps Americans enjoy a secure retirement, it has also kept millions of Americans out of poverty. The president's Social Security privatization plan will hurt everyone, including today's beneficiaries” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “We want to address the challenges facing Social Security, not make the problems worse.” “Social Security is one of the most successful government programs ever, responsible for keeping millions of seniors, disabled citizens and children out of poverty,” said Rep. Sam Farr. “Certainly, the program faces long-term problems, but the president is trying to sell the public a dangerous solution instead of acknowledging that we have the decades to ensure the system remains strong and secure.”In order to continue paying benefits for today's retirees, privatization plans must borrow trillions of dollars over the next couple of decades, sending our already record deficit even higher. Social Security under the President’s plan does not get stronger — it gets weaker. In fact, the Republican proposals, which they claim will “shore up” Social Security, actually shortens the life of the Trust Fund by at least 20 years. "While the President sells his privatization plan as a win-win for future retirees, his proposal would leave today's workers much worse off while accelerating the depletion of the Social Security Trust Fund," Rep. Honda said. "Democrats are fighting to defend the most successful social insurance program of the last 100 years by educating the public about the results of President Bush's privatization plan: benefit cuts and increased debt for future generations of Americans."
02.17.2005	Is the Governor tough enough to convince his fellow California Republicans to stand up to President Bush and the Republican Congressional leadership and deliver for our stateMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072February 17, 2005Thursday, Governor Schwarzenegger will meet with the California Congressional Delegation and state leaders to discuss federal funding for California. Currently, California only receives a 79-cent return for every tax dollar paid in federal taxes. President Bush’s proposed budget will leave California as one of four states that will receive less federal funding than in the last fiscal year. In the 1980’s California collected about $7 billion more annually from the federal budget than it sent to Washington in taxes, today, California faces the untenable loss of about $50 billion a year. “The Democrats will fight to increase federal funding for California, but we need the help of the Governor and Republicans in the California Delegation,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation. “The Republicans have a 15 seat lead in the House, and there are 20 California Republicans in Congress. The Republicans cannot pass the budget without the California Republicans on their side. The math is clear; the California Republicans have the power in Congress to ensure that programs affecting Californian’s everyday lives most are protected and funded. The question is, whether the Governor is tough enough to convince his fellow California Republicans to stand up to President Bush and the Republican Congressional leadership and deliver for our state?”Beyond the items on the meeting agenda, the following are highlights of key areas where the California Democratic Congressional Delegation wants to work with the Governor and California Republicans to garner additional federal funding for California:Education ˆNo Child Left Behind / Title I: The President’s budget provides $12 billion less for education in FY06 than was promised in the No Child Left Behind Act. If education is fully funded in FY06 California could receive more than $1.5 billion in additional federal funds.ˆ IDEA / Special Education funding: The Bush budget provides $3.5 billion less than promised for special education in the IDEA Improvement Act enacted by Congress just two months ago, providing local school systems with less than half of the funding they are owed by the federal government. This marks the fifth year in a row President Bush has failed to put us on the path to fully funding special education.ˆAfter-school programs: President Bush provides $1.3 billion less for after-school programs than was promised in the No Child Left Behind Act.ˆWork to fight to save educational technology grants, Safe and Drug-Free Schools, GEAR-UP, Perkins Loans, vocational education programs.Medicaid: The President’s Medicaid budget shifts huge financial burden to the states, and could mean a loss of more than $4.6 billion for California over ten years. California is dead last in the 51 federally funded Medicaid programs. Spending for Medicaid California is only about 2/3 per capita as in the state of Mississippi.CDBG: The President’ proposal to dismantle this program and move it to Commerce will mean a $1.9 billion cut in community development funds, meaning $250 million less for California.FAA / Airport Improvement Program: President’s budget cuts $750 millionHomeland Security: Two months ago the President signed the National Intelligence Reform Act that promised funding for at least 2,000 new border patrol agents this year but his budget provides funding for only 210 new border agents. President’s budget also reduces FIRE Act grants by $150 million and eliminates the SAFER Grant Program which helps fire departments hire new firefighters.Law enforcement: The Budget proposes that about $1 billion in funding be cut from DOJ state and local assistance programs, including the COPS programClean Water State Revolving Fund: Cut by $361 million under the President's budget, meaning $25 million less for California.
02.09.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072February 9, 2005 Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) and Mike Honda (D- San Jose) today announced San Jose will receive a $3, 400,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to install a noise monitoring system as one of the noise mitigation measures for residences around the Norman Y. Mineta International Airport. “This money will help families, schools and businesses near the airport to minimize unwanted noise,” said Rep. Lofgren. “It is important to maintain efforts to protect communities from noise pollution while allowing Mineta International Airport to continue as an important economic factor in the Silicon Valley.”“While accommodating the airport expansion necessary to keep Silicon Valley growing as a region, we need to ensure that families and businesses nearby don’t experience any noise nuisance,” Rep. Honda said. “The mitigation measures made possible by this federal grant will improve residents’ quality of life and enhance our regional development opportunities.”
02.02.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren tonight issued the following statement in reaction to President Bush’s State of the Union address:“President Bush’s speech tonight reflects failure to understand the most pressing issues affecting all Americans. “This week, Iraqi citizens exercised their right to vote, and they deserve praise for standing up for democracy. But America’s troops are still at war, with mounting casualties day after day, and this Administration still does not have an exit strategy. The Administration has made critical mistakes and errors in judgment leading up to the war in Iraq. The President refuses to acknowledge these mistakes, and thus, no corrective action has been taken to prevent these problems from happening again. Republicans and Democrats all believe in freedom and democracy, but this does not relieve the President of his duty to devise a plan that brings our troops home. “Social Security is one of the most successful government programs of the past 70 years. President Roosevelt created this plan to protect America’s seniors and it has been a success. President Bush claimed tonight that Social Security is in a crisis. If so, it would be because the President’s privatization plan puts Social Security itself at risk. If the President presents a plan to Congress that supplements and strengthens Social Security, I am confident that Democrats will stand with him. If however, his plan diverts money from Social Security, Democrats will not stand idly by as the Republicans destroy this very successful program. “Finally, I am concerned that the President continues to ignore the state of our economy. With the President’s failed economic policies, thousands of highly skilled persons in Silicon Valley remain unemployed, budget deficits are at record levels and many Americans are struggling to make ends meet."
01.28.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) gained the commitment of the House Judiciary Committee to hold hearings on the implementation of the controversial Patriot Act. The review would be of the entire act, including those provisions set to expire at the end of this year. Rep. Lofgren succeeded in adding an amendment to the scheduled work plan of the House Judiciary Committee this week when the Committee committed to a series of oversight hearings on the USA PATRIOT Act. Rep. Lofgren also convinced the Committee to commit to hearings on the FBI’s role in domestic and international counter-terrorism. Critics have noted the lack of “oversight” of the Administration’s utilization of the Patriot Act as well as the climate of secrecy surrounding anti-terrorism efforts generally. These hearings could be a vital first step towards the elimination of some parts of the PATRIOT Act. The House Judiciary Committee’s 109th Congress Oversight Report sets the agenda for the Committee for the next two years. The following are the two relevant portions of the Judiciary Committee’s 109th Oversight Report:USA PATRIOT Act. With some of the provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act set to expire at the end of 2005, the Subcommittee will continue to examine the Department of Justice’s implementation of the USA PATRIOT Act to detect, investigate, and prevent terrorist attacks without undue intrusions on privacy and civil liberties, including the use of the Attorney General’s Investigative Guidelines, detention authorities, data mining as an investigative tool, and money laundering regulations. The Subcommittee (and full Committee) will conduct a series of classified and non-classified hearings before the August recess to examine whether the expiring provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act should be renewed. Among the areas of inquiry will be a review of the effectiveness of the USA PATRIOT Act powers and how responsibly they have been applied by the Department. In addition, the Subcommittee (and full Committee) will conduct a series of classified and non-classified hearings before the August recess to examine whether changes should be made to non-expiring provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act, including expanded surveillance powers such as pen register searches and roving wiretaps and delayed notice search warrants.The Federal Bureau of Investigation. As the largest federal law enforcement agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will be the subject of much of the Subcommittee’s oversight activities. Among the areas of inquiry will be a review of the FBI’s implementation of its reorganization plan, new security policies, its use of the law enforcement tools provided by the USA PATRIOT Act, intelligence activities, the role of the FBI in domestic and international counter-terrorism efforts, and coordination with state and local law enforcement. Additionally, the Subcommittee will continue to monitor the FBI’s efforts to update its computer systems.
01.06.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072 Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Mac Thornberry (R-TX) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to create an Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity position within the Department of Homeland Security's Information Analysis and Infrastructures Protection Directorate. The legislation, also known as "the Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2005" was first introduced in the second session of the 108th Congress. The establishment of a new Assistant Secretary position was ultimately approved by the House as part of H.R. 10, the House-passed version of last year's intelligence reform bill, but was not included in the final intelligence reform legislation approved by Congress and signed by the President."It is imperative that Congress work with a sense of urgency to revisit this bill to elevate the position of Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity, so we can make sure that the top government cybersecurity personnel has the access and authority to get the job done," said Rep. Lofgren. "The creation of this position will also help protect our physical and converged physical-cyber infrastructures by hopefully putting experts - not bureaucrats- in charge."Rep. Thornberry said, "At the same time that our Nation is growing more dependent on the reliability of various computer networks, the number of cyber attacks is also growing. Creating an Assistant Secretary is far more than just an organizational change. It is an essential move to assure that cybersecurity is not buried among the many homeland security challenges we face."If passed, the legislation would allow for the Assistant Secretary to have primary authority within the Department for all cybersecurity-related critical infrastructure protection programs of the Department, including policy formulation and program management.The legislation touts strong support from the technology, education, and financial sectors.
01.06.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) announced today that she plans to reintroduce a resolution to abolish the Electoral College and to provide for the direct election for President and Vice President of the United States. Rep Lofgren first introduced the resolution at the close of the 108th Congress.“During the 2004 election, voters in nine or ten 'swing states' garnered all the attention of the Presidential candidates. The only reason for that is the Electoral College. This system may have made sense two hundred years ago, but today it is outdated and flawed. National campaigns should not be conducted solely in Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania,” said Rep. Lofgren. “As the Electoral College meets today to cast their votes for President and Vice President, I urge the 109th Congress to begin an open debate about replacing the current system with a direct election.”Under the Electoral College system, each state is apportioned electors equal to the number of Senators and Representatives from that state. As a result, every state, no matter how small, is guaranteed at least 3 electoral votes. This system favors sparsely populated states at the expense of voters in large states like California. For example, Wyoming, with its 500,000 residents, has one elector for every 165,000 people; in contrast, California, with over 35 million residents, has one elector for every 635,000 people. A vote cast in Wyoming, therefore, has about four times the weight in the Electoral College as a vote cast in California.“The elimination of the Electoral College should not be a large versus small state issue, rather this is about ensuring that voters in all states have their voices heard and their votes counted equally. In the most recent presidential election, states such as Connecticut and Montana were ignored just as much as California and Texas. It is important for all states to participate in the process, not just those considered “swing states” to ensure that the President truly represents the entire country," Rep. Lofgren continued.If passed by a 2/3 margin in the House and Senate, the Lofgren amendment to the Constitution needs to be ratified by 3/4 of state legislatures within seven years to become law.Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA) plans to introduce a similar resolution in the Senate this week.
01.02.2005	Media Contact: Heather Wong / David Thomas, 202.225.3072 San Jose, CA — On behalf of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Robert T. Matsui:"It is with profound sorrow that the California Democratic Congressional Delegation mourns the passing of our colleague, Bob Matsui. Californians, and indeed all Americans, are truly fortunate to have had a man like Bob Matsui in Congress. Bob served his beloved constituents with honor and embodied the best of what we all aspire to as public servants."Bob was a respected champion of America's seniors, and through his service on the House Ways & Means Committee, fought to protect Social Security. America is better off as a result of his work. We pledge to carry on Bob's commitment to Social Security with the same passion and dignity as he did during twenty-six years of Congressional service."In addition to being a well-known expert on Social Security and tax issues, Bob had a rare political acumen. He was committed to the values of the Democratic Party throughout his life, and most recently served as Chair of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. We are truly grateful for his leadership in our Party."Bob served as a colleague and a trusted advisor to us and our House colleagues for more than two decades. But as we reflect back, our fondest memories will be Bob's friendship to us - both individually and as a Delegation. Bob's life and work will continue to be an inspiration for all of us."The Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation consider ourselves fortunate to have known Bob, even as he leaves us all too soon. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Doris, son Brian, daughter-in-law Amy and granddaughter Anna."
12.22.2004	Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D - San Jose) today offered the following statement regarding the bombing of a U.S. military mess tent in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul on Tuesday:"I, along with other Americans, was deeply saddened to hear of even more casualties in Iraq, this time on our own base. Every renewed effort must be made by America to secure the safety of our troops in Iraq as well as every effort made to secure the peace and allow our troops to come home."My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of these we have lost in Iraq."
12.14.2004	Vietnam Should Stop Imprisoning Supporters of Religious Freedom and Human RightsMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072December 14, 2004Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) joined her colleagues in the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam last Friday in sending a letter to the heads of state from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam regarding the unjust imprisonment of Reverend Nguyen Hong Quang, Vice President and Secretary General of the Mennonite Church and five other evangelist workers who were sentenced to excessive and unmerited sentences from the People’s Court of Ho Chi Minh City.The charges against Reverend Nguyen Hong Quang and his Mennonite associates restrict religious freedom and fail to respect human rights in Vietnam. The Representatives called upon the Vietnamese government for a prompt release of the prisoners. The following is a copy of the letter: December 10, 2004H.E. Tran Duc Luong President Socialist Republic of VietnamOffice of the State1 Bach ThaoHanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam H.E. Phan Van KhaiPrime MinisterSocialist Republic of VietnamOffice of the Prime MinisterHoang Hoa ThamHanoi, Socialist Republic of VietnamH.E. Nong Duc Manh General Secretary, Communist Party of Vietnam President of the National Assembly Central Committee HeadquartersNguyen Canh Chan 1A Hung Vuong Hanoi, Socialist Republic of VietnamH.E. Nguyen Van An Socialist Republic of Vietnam National Assembly35 Ngo QuyenHanoi, Socialist Republic of VietnamDear Sirs,As members of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam, we are writing once again regarding the unjust imprisonment of Reverend Nguyen Hong Quang, Vice President and Secretary General of the Mennonite Church. We are respectfully petitioning for the release of Reverend Quang and five other evangelist workers who were sentenced to excessive and unmerited sentences from the People’s Court of Ho Chi Minh City on November 12, 2004. As we stated in our previous letter, we have been informed that the charges brought against Reverend Quang and his Mennonite associates are unwarranted and a veiled attempt to restrict religious freedom in Vietnam. Reverend Quang was sentenced to three years in prison for “resisting officers of the law while doing their duty.” However, Reverend Quang’s record as a peaceful spokesperson for religious freedom and human rights seems to contradict these charges. Furthermore, our State Department has informed us that representatives from the American Embassy were barred access to the trial. The denial of open trial proceedings is particularly alarming and further raises suspicion regarding the legitimacy of the charges against the Mennonites. Additionally, it appears public support for the detained Mennonites was suppressed during the trial proceedings. The sentencing of Reverend Quang and his associates, along with the Vietnamese Government’s continued aggression toward religious leaders in the country, is viewed unfavorably by the United States and all free nations alike. We urge you to take the steps necessary to respect human rights by facilitating the release of Reverend Quang, his associates, and the hundreds of political and religious prisoners in Vietnam. Taking action in Reverend Quang’s case will strengthen our diplomatic relations and send a positive message to the world that Vietnam is committed to affording its citizens human rights and religious freedom.Sincerely,ZOE LOFGREN, Member of Congress LORETTA SANCHEZ, Member of CongressCHRIS SMITH, Member of Congress TOM DAVIS, Member of CongressW. TODD AKIN, Member of Congress
12.07.2004	House Republicans Finally Support National SecurityMedia Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) today offered the following statement commending the passage of S. 2845, the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Implementation Act:“I am pleased that after many months, I finally got the opportunity to cast my vote in support of this legislation, and in support of the work of the 9/11 Commission. A total of 138 days have passed since the 9/11 Commission released its comprehensive report. Today, the Republicans finally stopped stalling this important legislation to implement essential national security recommendations by the 9/11 Commission. “President Bush opposed the creation of the 9/11 Commission, then changed his mind. He opposed key provisions recommended by the 9/11 Commission, but changed his mind again. After all that, the Republicans in the House of Representatives blocked this bill and refused to bring it to the floor of the House for a vote, even though it was certain to pass. "This bill was supported by an overwhelming majority of Senators and Representatives in both the House and Senate. It is a shame that a few Republican leaders chose to hold up this bill for so very long. "I am relieved that the Republicans came to their senses and ended their stalling tactics. Finally, we, as elected Representatives, have voted for a bipartisan national security bill to protect America.”
11.17.2004	“It is time to provide certainty to the market and consumers”Media Contact: Heather Wong, 202.225.3072Today, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D- San Jose) joined by 31 colleagues in the House of Representatives, sent a letter urging Speaker Dennis Hastert to schedule a vote this week to extend the internet tax moratorium. The Internet tax moratorium expired over one year ago. Prior to that expiration, the House passed H.R. 49, a bill that would have permanently extended the moratorium. Last April, the Senate passed its own version, S. 150, which instead extends the moratorium for another four years. The letter calls for a vote on the Senate version of the bill.The following is a copy of the letter:November 16, 2004The Honorable Dennis HastertSpeaker of the HouseThe CapitolH-232Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Mr. Speaker, As you know, last year the House passed H.R. 49, which would permanently extend the moratorium on Internet access taxes and prohibit multiple and discriminatory taxes on Internet commerce. Last April, the Senate passed its own version, S. 150, which would instead extend the moratorium for four years. Although we prefer the permanent extension found in H.R. 49, we believe it is time to resolve this issue and pass S. 150. The Internet tax moratorium expired over one year ago. For over one year, ISPs and consumers have had to deal with the very real possibility that all fifty states could tax Internet access.We cannot continue to allow this uncertainty to harm the future of the Internet. The Internet has been a driving force in our economy. A toll to enter the information superhighway is not good policy today, and it won’t be good policy when the 109th Congress convenes in January. It is time to provide certainty to the market and consumers. We urge you to schedule a vote for S. 150 this week. Sincerely, Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Ra"l M. Grijalva Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Rub_n HinojosaRep. Mike Thompson Rep. Anna EshooRep. Mike Honda Rep. Mike DoyleRep. Rick Boucher Rep. Robert T. MatsuiRep. Brad Sherman Rep. Bob FilnerRep. Gary Ackerman Rep. Ron KindRep. David Wu Rep. David PriceRep. Steny Hoyer Rep. Ben CardinRep. Howard Berman Rep. Linda SanchezRep. Sam Farr Rep. Joe BacaRep. Lois Capps Rep. Ellen TauscherRep. Diane Watson Rep. Lynn WoolseyRep. Dennis Cardoza Rep. Hilda SolisRep. Susan A. Davis Rep. John. F. TierneyRep. Joseph Crowley
