01.16.2019	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives has approved two proposals authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) aimed at assisting Puerto Rico, as the troubled island continues recovering from economic hardship and historically catastrophic hurricanes. The amendments were approved as part of H.R. 268, a supplemental spending bill that appropriates additional funding for disaster assistance. “I want to thank Chairwoman Lowey and all my colleagues for passing legislation to help Puerto Rico, Texas, Florida, California and other parts of our nation affected by recent disasters,” Velázquez said. “I’m especially appreciative that the Chairwoman worked with me to pass two amendments that will help address nutritional and environmental challenges in Puerto Rico.” H.R. 268 included $600 million in funding for the Nutrition Assistance Program for Puerto Rico, the amount requested by the Governor of Puerto Rico to ensure residents of the island continue receiving vital nutrition assistance. In addition, the House approved a Velázquez amendment that would appropriate funding to study how properly funding NAP helps the Island, ensuring food security and well-being for those who live there. “I thank my Democratic colleagues for securing $600 million for the NAP program, so we can continue providing food assistance to the people of Puerto Rico as they continue recovering from the historic damage from Hurricane Maria,” Velázquez said. “This is a lifeline of funding that Congressional Republicans failed to include in previous appropriations bills and I’m pleased to see it passed, today. In addition, my amendment would provide additional resources to carefully examine the NAP program, look at disparities between how it functions in Puerto Rico versus the mainland and begin building the groundwork to address food insecurity on the Island for the long term.” Velázquez’s amendment appropriates $5 million to conduct an analysis of how the NAP program functions with the intent of improving performance. The House also voted to include legislation authored by the Congresswoman to help address a longstanding environmental sore spot in Puerto Rico. For decades, Caño Martín Peña in San Juan has been a repository for sewage overflow, mercury and PCBs. The canal was once a navigable and commercially used channel. Today, it is so clogged that it is possible to walk across it on some parts. Due to the clogging, the approximately 25,000 US citizens who live near the Caño Martín Peña face significant public health and safety challenges. Combined storm water and the regional sewer system contribute to high concentration of coliforms in the channel and the waterway frequently floods after heavy rains putting residents into direct contact with polluted water. Exposure to these polluted waters cause elevated risk of gastrointestinal diseases and a higher prevalence of chronic diseases and asthma. These ailments have been detected in children 5 years old and younger. Velázquez’s amendment would appropriate $25 million for dredging the channel, an important step toward environmental remediation. “For decades, Caño Martín Peña has been an environmental sore spot in San Juan and a health hazard for surrounding communities,” said Velázquez. “For the families and especially children who live in the surrounding area, flooding of contaminated water from the canal represents a serious public health threat. With thousands of structures continuing to discharge sewage into the canal and the presence of Mercury, lead and PCBs, we have an obligation to see the remediation of this troubled waterway. My amendment would allocate additional federal resources to help resolve this problem and I thank my colleagues for helping pass it.” The Emergency Supplemental bill, with Velázquez’s amendments passed the House by a vote of 237 to 187. The legislative package now moves to the Senate for consideration.
01.10.2019	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) responded today to media reports that Trump Administration officials are discussing taking funds from disaster recovery to pay for a border wall: “It would be beyond appalling for the President to take money from places like Puerto Rico that have suffered enormous catastrophes, costing thousands of American citizens lives, in order to pay for Donald Trump’s foolish, offensive and hateful wall. Siphoning funding from real disasters to pay for a crisis manufactured by the President is wholly unacceptable and the American people won’t fall for it. My Democratic colleagues in Congress and I will fight such a move with every ounce of energy we have.”
01.07.2019	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) marked the first day of the 116th Congress by introducing a range of bills meant to benefit New York’s working families, students, entrepreneurs, seniors and others. “With a new Democratic Majority comes renewed opportunity to advance policies that benefit New Yorkers and working people throughout the nation,” Velázquez said. “I look forward to working alongside my colleagues to advance these commonsense proposals in the new Congress.” Standing for Tenant Rights One of the first pieces of legislation introduced by Velázquez this year aims to protect tenants, particularly those in the Section 8 program, from abuses by dishonest landlords. The “Landlord Accountability Act” would ban discrimination based on a tenant’s use of a housing voucher at the federal level. Voucher holders would be able to seek remedies for discrimination under the Fair Housing Act. The bill would also fine landlords who take actions, or neglect to act, with the intention of disqualifying units from federal housing programs. Landlords could be fined up to $100,000 for violations and face a second set of fines of $50,000 with revenue going to aggrieved tenants. The legislation comes after media reports in New York have documented instances where landlords neglect Section 8 eligible apartments, causing the units to fall into disrepair and no longer qualify for a voucher. “Those who would seek to profit by kicking families and seniors out of Section 8 eligible housing are acting unconscionably and must be stopped,” Velázquez said. “If landlords try to force tenants from their homes, we’re going to hit them where they feel it – in their pocketbooks.” Velázquez’s bill would extend other assistance to tenants. The bill would establish a new Multifamily Housing Complaint Resolution Program to investigate and attempt to resolve disputes through mediation. Complaints received through the new program would be made publicly available. “We have a burgeoning affordable housing crisis in our city, making any efforts to remove units from the Section 8 program even more harmful,” Velázquez added. “We need strong, enforceable steps to punish bad actors and deter abuses before they occur.” Beyond assisting Section 8 voucher holders, the bill would direct federal resources to local programs benefiting other tenants. A new $25 million grant program would steer resources to agencies that provide tenants with assistance and legal advice. Locally based initiatives like New York City’s Tenant Harassment Prevention Task Force could apply for this federal support. “In the new Congress, I’ll be working to expand assistance for those in tight housing markets, like New York City,” Velázquez added. “That includes cracking down on those who would illegally or unethically profit off this affordability crisis, by trying to remove tenants from their homes.” The bill has been officially endorsed by: Carroll Gardens Association, Councilmember Carlos Menchaca, Councilmember Brad Lander, Community Board 2, Community Board 6, Community Board 7, New York Housing Conference and the National Alliance of HUD Tenants. Addressing Transportation Challenges With the kickoff of the 116th Congress, Velázquez also unveiled legislation today that would steer federal funding to transportation alternatives when major transit arteries are closed or delayed due to infrastructure upgrades. The legislation, the “Increase Transportation Alternatives Investment Program,” could help expand choices for New York commuters who currently rely on the L train, which is expected to have service reduced for repairs of the Canarsie Tunnel. “Given the challenges facing MTA, we need to be constantly exploring new transportation options in our city,” Velázquez said. “The federal government can play a vital role by targeting resources to those areas experiencing transportation interruptions. I was pleased to hear the L train disruption may now be less severe than previously expected, but we still must ensure working families have a reliable option to get to and from work, school and elsewhere.” Under the legislation, states securing funding through the federal government’s Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) Program would be required to prioritize projects in areas where there is significant repair of transportation infrastructure occurring. The STBG provides funding that may be used by States and localities for projects to preserve and improve the conditions and performance on any Federal-aid highway, bridge and tunnel projects on any public road, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, and transit capital projects. Beyond updating the STBG initiatives, the bill would create a new competitive grant program at the Department of Transportation that supports community efforts to invest in transportation. Eligible programs include carpool and telecommuting projects as well as expanding bicycle and pedestrian mobility and access. That program would also give preference to areas undergoing extensive repair of transportation systems. Protecting Diverse Communities With hate crimes on the rise in New York and around the U.S., Velázquez also unveiled legislation that would authorize an additional $50 million in federal funds to help prevent, track and prosecute hate crimes and assist victims. “Like many, I’ve been profoundly disturbed by the spike in hate crimes in recent years,” Velázquez added. “My legislation will ensure the federal government puts forth necessary resources to combat this scourge.” Among other provisions, Velázquez’s bill provides $15 million in federal resources to bolster local law enforcement hate crimes training. Funds under this program are allocated to solve hate crimes and facilitate discussion with community stakeholders whose members are at risk of being victims. Grants would be targeted to jurisdictions that have high levels of hate crime activity. The program also encourages community policing and diverse recruitment of police officers. To facilitate the reporting of hate crimes, Velázquez’s measure would provide another $20 million for hate crime hotlines and websites, which would be operated by states or local governments in collaboration with community stakeholders. The Act allocates another $15 million for victims’ assistance through the Office for Victims of Crime in the Department Office of Justice. These funds would help nonprofits and faith-based organizations expand or launch local programs that assist those who have been harmed through hate crimes. In December, after a wave of anti-Semitic acts hit New York City, Velázquez led Congressional colleagues in writing to the New York Police Department asking the Department how they are working to tackle hate crimes. “We’ve seen a spate of attacks against Jewish New Yorkers in recent months,” Velázquez noted. “I’ll be working with my colleagues in coming weeks to ensure there are sufficient federal resources and that there’s adequate coordination at all levels of government to combat acts of hate. Whether these vile attacks are aimed at our Jewish neighbors, immigrants, members of our LGBTQ community, or any other group, they constitute an attack on us all and we must be united in fighting back.” Preserving the Environment and Promoting Healthy Communities The Congresswoman is also taking steps to oppose the Trump Administration’s assault on our environment. As part of her package of “first day” bills, she introduced “the Pesticide Protection Act,” which bans from commerce Chlorpyrifos, a toxic chemical that has been linked to damaging and often irreversible health outcomes in workers, pregnant women and children. While the Obama-era EPA had developed a regulation to ban Chlorpyrifos, under the Trump Administration, the agency had been taking steps to reverse the regulation. “It’s unconscionable for EPA to turn a blind eye as children and workers are exposed to this poison,” Velázquez said. “If the EPA won’t do its job when it comes to Chlorpyrifos, then Congress needs to act – and do so quickly.” In August a federal Court ordered the agency to ban the pesticide. However, the Administration is appealing the ruling, seeking to prevent implementation of the Obama-era ban. “As long as there are efforts underway in the courts or administratively to undo the ban on this toxic pesticide, I’ll be working to see Chlorypyrifos removed from commerce through the legislative process,” Velázquez added. Chlorypyrifos is a widely used pesticide, with agriculture companies spraying 6 million pounds of the substance on crops like citruses, apples and cherries, annually. In the same family as Sarin gas, the substance was initially developed prior to World War II as a chemical weapon. Velázquez’s bill has been endorsed by a wide range of more than 160 environmental groups. The bill has been cosponsored by 40 of Velázquez’s House colleagues. Demanding Accountability on Puerto Rico Congresswoman Velázquez is again this year pushing legislation to hold the Trump Administration accountable for its abysmal response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Today, she reintroduced legislation to establish a “9/11-style” independent commission to investigate the federal response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico. Introduced in both chambers of Congress, the bill would create a commission charged with examining the federal government’s preparedness and response to a catastrophe that some estimate may have killed more than 3,000 Americans. “As we move into the 116th Congress, I will continue calling for accountability for how Donald Trump and his Administration failed 3.4 million American citizens after Maria struck,” said Velázquez. “It is clear now, from multiple analyses, that thousands needlessly lost their lives because of the federal government’s feeble response to these hurricanes and their aftermath. Certainly, there will be hearings looking into many facets of what went wrong, but I also believe that the magnitude of this catastrophe warrants the creation of a nonpartisan panel to fully bring to light not only the errors that were made, but also how we can be certain this never happens again.” The legislation has been cosponsored in the House by Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), the incoming Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The humanitarian toll of Hurricane Maria – one of the most devastating natural disasters this country has experienced – was and continues to be a national tragedy due to the Administration’s woefully inadequate response,” said Chairman Thompson (D-MS). “I thank Congresswoman Velazquez for spearheading this effort to get answers for the people of Puerto Rico and for helping shed light on what went wrong after Hurricane Maria so we can ensure it will not happen again.” “After Hurricanes Irma and Maria devastated Puerto Rico, we had an extraordinary opportunity to help our fellow Americans rebuild and become far more resilient than ever before,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Now, almost 15 months later, it’s clear that Congress and the President have failed to do their job to protect this part of our country and the millions of Americans who live there. The storms were bad enough, but the government’s response to them was truly horrific, and we need to get to the bottom of exactly what went so terribly wrong. That’s why I’m introducing legislation to create a new, 9/11-style Congressional commission to investigate exactly how and why the federal government abandoned its responsibilities and turned its back on Puerto Rico. I am proud to fight for Puerto Rico in the Senate, and I urge my colleagues to support this legislation just as they would if a natural disaster hit their own states.” Under the bill, “The National Commission of the Federal Response to Natural Disasters in Puerto Rico Act,” the Commission would consider a broad array of factors that impacted the disaster response. These would include: death toll accuracy and methodology; federal preparedness guidelines issued ahead of the 2017 hurricane season; the vulnerability of Puerto Rico’s economic situation; adequacy of the Island’s telecommunications; and the capacity of the Federal government to quickly mobilize and respond to disasters and emergencies in Puerto Rico. Additionally, the Commission would be tasked with examining any potential disparities in the federal response to Puerto Rico compared with 2017 Mainland disasters. According to news reports, in multiple instances, the response in Puerto Rico was slower and less effective than in places like Texas after Hurricane Harvey. For example, nine days after Maria, just 1.6 million meals were delivered to Puerto Rico while 10.9 million were delivered in the same period after Irma struck Florida and 5.1 million to Texas after Harvey. Compounding a lackluster federal response was a series of botched FEMA contracts that delayed the delivery of crucial supplies such as tarps and meals. Supporting Young Entrepreneurs and Addressing Student Loan Debt With young Americans facing a crisis of mounting student loan debt, the Congresswoman is profoundly concerned that opportunity may be closed off for younger workers and would-be entrepreneurs. As the incoming Chair of the House Small Business Committee, she has introduced legislation that would provide loan relief for recent graduates who launch or work for small enterprises. “I hear frequently from young New Yorkers who are foregoing or postponing launching a business because of enormous student loans,” Velázquez said. “My legislation would allow them to build a business without falling behind on their loan payments.” Under Velázquez’s proposal, founders of business startups could secure three years of deferment on student loans. Additionally, entrepreneurs that create new ventures in economically distressed areas could be eligible for $20,000 in loan forgiveness. “We’ve seen time and again that when new businesses launch they can spread opportunity in areas that are economically and financially disadvantaged,” Velázquez added. “For those entrepreneurs who willing to give back to these communities, additional student debt assistance would be available.” The cost of paying for and financing a college education has become a significant hurdle for recent graduates interested in pursuing a career in entrepreneurship. The current amount of student loans has increased tenfold in the last decade. This mounting debt has constrained new business formation by dissuading many young people from creating their own firms. Today, around a quarter of new entrepreneurs are aged 20-34, a significant decline from the mid-1990s when this younger demographic comprised 34 percent of new business entrepreneurs. “The student loan crisis is not only burdening young people, but creating unfortunate ripple effects through the broader economy,” Velázquez noted. “We’ll need a broad-based strategy to tackle the student loan problem. I’m hopeful this bill can be one tool among many to make education affordable for all Americans and working families.” Velázquez’s bill would also assist employees of startups, granting loan forgiveness of up to $3,000 per year. Employees may request this benefit for up to 5 years, for an aggregate of $15,000 in loan forgiveness. In the previous, 115th Congress, Velázquez authored the fifth most bills, compared to all 435 House Members. “Now that Democrats have taken the majority in the House, I look forward to working with my colleagues to move many of these ideas through the legislative process and toward enactment,” Velázquez concluded. ###
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement regarding the Democratic Rules package considered today in the House: “The Democratic Rules for the 116th Congress contain a number of critically important, progressive steps. This package includes a select Committee to address climate change, which is an existential threat to our nation’s and planet’s future. After the most closed Congress in recent history, this package would reopen our legislative process to transparency and fairness. It also permits the House to take a role in legally defending preexisting condition protections from the Affordable Care Act and in opposing draconian work requirements for federal nutritional benefits. These are important steps that I wholeheartedly support. “With regards to PAYGO, it is important to remember some basic facts. First and foremost, PAYGO is already part of statutory law and the House Rules package cannot change that. In addition, the Senate has its own set of PAYGO rules. Thus, under current law, if the House does not choose offsets, we would essentially be abdicating that responsibility to the Republican-controlled Senate and Donald Trump’s Office of Management and Budget. “I, for one, refuse to hand Mick Mulvaney a scalpel and enable this Administration to unilaterally slash programs like Medicare payments, the Crime Victims Fund, vocational rehabilitation grants, the Social Services block grant and many other progressive priorities. “We should also note that for major legislative items, like a ‘Medicare for All’ bill the House can vote to waive the PAYGO rules. “Going forward, I will work with my colleagues in the Progressive Caucus on legislation to reform the PAYGO requirements that are already in statute. However, voting against this rules package would be bad policy, bad for the country, bad for our progressive values and bad for our Democratic Majority. I voted in favor of the Democratic rules package.” # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced the “Puerto Rico Recovery Accuracy in Disclosures Act,” legislation that extends to firms working on Puerto Rico’s debt restructuring the same disclosure requirements that apply to companies involved in other bankruptcies. Recent news reports have documented how McKinsey & Company is advising Puerto Rico on the Island’s debt restructuring at the same time that it holds bonds issued by Puerto Rico. “The people of Puerto Rico can’t have faith that this oversight board is putting their interests first if consultants helping implement the restructuring could profit from how much debt service is available under the very fiscal plans they design,” Velázquez said. “At bare minimum, the same disclosure requirements that apply to an ordinary bankruptcy on the mainland should hold true for Puerto Rico. Anything less than that impugns the integrity of the process.” Velázquez’s bill requires attorneys, accountants, consultants, and other professional persons employed by the Oversight Board in a Title III case to submit verified disclosures of their connections with the debtor, creditors, or persons employed by the Oversight Board, prior to being compensated under PROMESA. The disclosures must comport to existing bankruptcy rules and include information on the identity of each entity or person with whom such professional person has a connection. Under the bill, the U.S. Trustee would also review the disclosures submitted and potentially file comments with the Court should the disclosures not be properly submitted, potentially preventing compensation from a firm that is in violation. The new disclosure requirements would apply retroactively to individuals and companies already employed by the Oversight Board. “Those who have been retained to help guide Puerto Rico through bankruptcy should be putting the Island, its people and its economy first,” Velázquez continued. “If companies are doing work on Puerto Rico’s debt, while simultaneously holding bonds in secret, there are very real concerns that standard is not being met. This bill will simply mean greater transparency in the process and a full understanding of any potential conflicts.” Velázquez’s bill has been cosponsored by Rep. Jenniffer González-Colón (R-PR), House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Committee Chairman Bishop (R-UT) and Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ). The Natural Resources Committee has jurisdiction over PROMESA and Puerto Rico. Velázquez pledged to move the legislation toward enactment as quickly as possible. The first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, Velázquez serves on the House Natural Resources Committee. A summary of the bill is online here. ###
12.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, two members of the U.S. House of Representatives introduced legislation aimed at ending a predatory commercial lending practice that, according to media reports, has ballooned in recent years. Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Dr. Roger Marshall (R-KS) introduced the “Small Business Lending Fairness Act.” Their legislation would put an end to the practice of small business borrowers signing an obscure legal document known as a “confession of judgement,” which essentially requires the borrower to waive their legal rights. Confessions of judgement have been linked to unfair lending terms, onerous interest rates and unjust seizure of assets. “This legal loophole has fueled an entire cottage industry of con artists and scammers who profit by exploiting hardworking entrepreneurs and ruining the lives of cash-strapped small business owners,” said Velázquez who is the incoming Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee. “I call on my colleagues to join me in swiftly enacting this bipartisan measure, which will put an end to these abusive practices.” “We must put a stop to this abuse of power that hurts small businesses across the country,” Rep. Marshall said. “Shady lenders are using confessions of judgment as a weapon to take advantage of entrepreneurs and small business owners, and I am proud to work with Rep. Velázquez to end this scam.” Since 1985, confessions of judgement have been prohibited under the “Truth in Lending Act” for consumer loans, but the protections do not extend to certain types of commercial loans. By billing business loans as “merchant cash advances”, unscrupulous lenders began using confessions of judgement during the financial crisis to lure small firms into taking on unsustainable and costly debt, sometimes with interest rates of as much as 350 percent. In some cases, lenders have been allowed to freeze and drain borrowers’ bank accounts, even when the small business borrowers have met their loan obligations. “By ending ‘confessions of judgement’ in commercial lending, we can stop abusive practices that are crippling honest small business owners,” Velázquez added. “I found it appalling that New York State law has made our state a magnet for dishonest lenders, which is why I’m working to see this loophole closed federally.” “Access to capital remains a significant hurdle for many entrepreneurs looking to start and grow a business,” Rep Marshall said. “Closing this loophole ensures that predatory lenders are unable to seize the assets of small firms without due process and extends protections to small business owners looking to obtain a loan.” Both Reps. Velázquez and Marshall sit on the House Small Business Committee and Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. Their bill mirrors legislation previously introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Marco Rubio (R-FL).
12.06.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on protests and campaigns at both Harvard and Yale regarding the institutions’ relationships with hedge funds that have invested in Puerto Rico’s debt: “I applaud the students and faculty who are standing up to say their educational institutions should not be profiting off Puerto Ricans’ hardship. I hope Harvard and Yale heed this call and pressure hedge funds to stop seeking profit at the expense of the Puerto Rican people. In this regard, Harvard and Yale have an opportunity to serve as moral leaders for other institutional investors. For my part, I will continue promoting legislation that would offer Puerto Rico an avenue to comprehensive debt relief.” ###
12.04.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement honoring Hanukkah: “As friends, neighbors and entire communities gather in New York City and throughout the world for Hanukkah, I wish nothing but smiles, joy and peace. May this festival of lights bring celebrations rich with cherished rituals and loved ones. Chag Sameach!” ###
12.03.2018	In Wake of Columbia Incident, Lawmakers Seek Info on How Dept. Addresses Hate Acts Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has led Democratic Members of the New York City Congressional delegation in pressing the New York Police Department (NYPD) for answers on how they are combatting what appears to be a recent wave of anti-Semitic acts. The letter comes shortly after a Columbia University professor found swastikas spray-painted in her office. “Hate crimes and anti-Semitism have no place in our city, nation or society,” said Velázquez. “However, we’ve seen a disturbing rise in Anti-Semitism over the last two years. The attack in Pittsburgh focused our nation’s conscience on this problem, and, here, in New York, we’ve seen vandalism and violence meant to intimidate and terrorize those of Jewish faith. To that end, we are asking our City police for assurances that this issue remains top of mind and that they’re deploying sufficient resources to tackle the problem head on.” Among other requests, the letter asks how much funding the Department has dedicated to combatting hate crimes and whether additional money will be necessary in the next budget year, due to the recent rise in Anti-Semitic activity. The letter also notes that some of the NYPD’s online hate-crimes resources are available in a range of languages, but not in Yiddish, something the lawmakers would like to see rectified. “NYPD has done good work in this area, but it is clear from recent events that we can’t afford to rest,” Velázquez added. “We want to be certain they have a clear plan in place to take on these vile acts and arrest those who perpetrate them.” “The disturbing hate-fueled attacks against New York’s Jewish communities is unacceptable and goes against everything our great city stands for,” said Chairman Crowley. “Bigotry and hatred have no place in our communities and immediate steps are needed to combat anti-Semitism and protect New Yorkers against hate and bias.” “The alarming rise in anti-Semitism cannot be ignored,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “The City must take a proactive stance in combatting this growing threat, which has affected communities from the Bronx to Brooklyn and everywhere in between. As Dean of the New York City delegation and Co-Chair of the House Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, I’m proud that my NYC colleagues have come together to help ensure this toxic problem is dealt with effectively.” “Anti-Semitism cannot be tolerated in NYC or anywhere. The NYPD has clearly demonstrated that they are committed to combatting hate crimes of all kinds. As elected officials, we need to continue to work with the department to ensure that we are responding in the best and most efficient ways possible to combat anti-Semitism and all types of hate crimes. Beyond this work, I will continue to work to pass my Never Again Holocaust Education Act to learn from the past, so that we are not doomed to repeat it,” said Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). “The recent wave of anti-Semitic acts in New York City and across the country is a chilling and tragic reminder that anti-Semitism continues to be a very real threat and that our Jewish communities remain vulnerable,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY). “To that end, it’s not enough to simply condemn these acts – we need to assure the public that local law enforcement is taking every possible step to prevent them from happening in the first place. In New York City and on Long Island especially, the federal government plays a critical role in supporting this work, and Congress remains committed to maintaining and strengthening that partnership in the years to come.” “The rise in Anti-Semitism particularly troubling for cities like New York, where people of Jewish faith are an integral part of our history and community. We must do everything we can to prevent these expressions of hate and intimidation from taking place in New York and make sure our local law enforcement agencies are adequately prepared to prevent, investigate and address them. As the top Democrat in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I will do everything I can to make sure that the NYPD has all the resources that they need to put a stop to hate,” said Congressman Jose E. Serrano. “According to new FBI data, hate crimes rose an astounding 17 percent last year and anti-Semitic hate crimes rose 37 percent. These acts are in no way reflective of our country’s core values of tolerance, respect, and human decency. These cowardly, hate-fueled actions are reprehensible and have no place in our city, country, or society. I stand shoulder to shoulder with my Jewish brethren in renewing my call to law enforcement to ensure that Jewish communities across the country are protected. My colleagues and I remain grateful to the NYPD for the work they are doing to combat these hate crimes, but there is still more work to be done. We must ensure that our communities are protected and that more is done to address the divisive climate of hate in America,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “Whether the dog whistling has been intentional or otherwise, rhetoric from the White House down to the social media circles on Gab have signaled to white nationalists that they are safe to preach their hatred in the open. Regrettably, we have seen this poison manifest into hate crimes throughout our nation, and in our city of New York. The NYPD has been swift to respond and, by publishing the surge of anti-Semitic hate crimes, helped give this growing issue the attention it deserves. We must work together with the NYPD to ensure they have all the resources necessary for protecting our populations most vulnerable to being targeted, and reassess our strategy,” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks. The full text of the letter is below. A .pdf is online here. December 3, 2018 The Honorable James P. O'Neill Commissioner, New York Police Department 1 Police Plaza New York, NY 10038 Dear Commissioner O’Neill: As Members of Congress, we write to express our concern over the spike in anti-Semitism in New York City. Our City’s Jewish community, unfortunately, is increasingly the target of hate crimes. Just last week, the faculty offices at Columbia University’s Teachers College were vandalized with Anti-Semitic slurs and graffiti. This crime follows an overall trend that, in the past two years, has consistently targeted the community at large[1]. In November 2016, for example, swastikas were accompanied by political graffiti indicating support for President Trump in a children’s playground.[2] During that year, hate crimes increased in New York City over 30 percent.[3] In May of this year, a rabbinical student was assaulted in Crown Heights for speaking Hebrew on his cell phone.[4] Earlier this month, James Polite was arrested for allegedly desecrating the Union Temple of Brooklyn—a historic landmark that is on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places. Shortly following Polite’s arrest, a number of teenagers were arrested for drawing swastikas on steps and garage doors in Brooklyn Heights.[5] Local police reports note that anti-Semitic crimes are increasing even though the City continues to experience a drop in other crimes.[6] This year, anti-Semitic incidents have increased by 22 percent year to date from November 4, 2018 through November 4, 2017.[7] More alarmingly the Police Department reports that Anti-Semitic incidents have “constituted half of all hate crimes in New York this year.”[8] We applaud the New York Police Department’s (NYPD) efforts to respond appropriately to the needs of our City’s Jewish communities and combating anti-Semitism. We commend your individual attitude, leadership and commitment to ensure that such crime will not be tolerated in our City. Yet, we remain gravely concerned over the possibility of additional local hate crimes targeting New Yorkers because of their ethnicity or religious background. Furthermore, we remain concerned that there may be other hate crime victims in our communities who may be afraid to speak out against these crimes out of fear. To ensure that NYPD’s current efforts are providing all appropriate resources and identifying any future areas of improvement for current and future policy, we ask that you respond to the following questions: 1. This past October, NYPD deployed heavy weapons teams, counterterrorism officers and special operations units to help patrol houses of worship across the City. The goal of this operation was to prevent any further hate crimes. a. How does the Department evaluate risk when assigning patrols to houses of worship? b. How does this assessment of risk determine placement or frequency of patrols? c. Does such assessment of risk also lead to additional changes to the immediate vicinity or neighborhood surrounding a house of worship? 2. The NYPD’s Hate Crimes/Bias Incidents webpage provides valuable information for the public.[9] It describes the definition of a hate crime, a brief analysis of how to identify such crime versus freedom of speech, and mechanisms to report a hate crime. The brochures are currently available in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, English and Spanish. As of the time of this letter’s writing, current materials are not available in Hebrew or Yiddish. This is particularly shocking given the rise in anti-Semitic crimes. a. The City of New York’s Executive Order No. 120 requires that city agencies take “reasonable steps to develop and implement agency-specific language assistance plans regarding limited-English proficiency (LEP) persons[’]” access.[10] Yet despite this Executive Order, a number of languages that appear on the American Community Survey Microdata[11] do not appear on the current NYPD’s hate crime information webpage. i. What can be done to ensure that appropriate translations of current NYPD materials available online are made available to speakers of languages that are commonly requested for translation and that do not currently have an appropriate translation? ii. Does the NYPD intend to provide such materials in the immediate future for Hebrew and/or Yiddish speakers? iii. When should such materials be available on the referenced website for public review and download? iv. How does your agency intend to roll out public awareness of the availability of such material should Hebrew and/or Yiddish translations be made available? 3. How often are officers from the Hate Crime Task Force meeting with community-based organizations? Are these meetings organized in a coordinated matter by the task force or are such meetings held at the discretion or request of the individual precincts? a. Is the NYPD partnering with local community organizations and appropriate local educational officials (i.e. principals, assistant principals, deans), or institutions of higher learning in the immediate area of reported hate crimes to discuss the impact and consequences of such hate crimes with community youth or students? i. If so, how often do these meetings occur? How are current resources prioritized to meet current needs? 4. What outreach tools does the NYPD employ to inform community-based organizations and specifically, those from the Jewish community, to encourage hate crime reporting? a. Do your current efforts focus on in-person interactions or depend primarily on social media platforms? 5. Current NYPD Complaint and Bias Motivation Statistics provide an initial view of incidents during the past year and a half divided quarterly. The Police Department also provides these data in an annual report at the end of the calendar year. While the data provide information about the frequency of such incidents at each of the Department’s precincts, current presentation of data may be overwhelming for the public. a. Does the NYPD have any future plans to consolidate the three (3) current quarterly excel spreadsheets into a format or single spreadsheet that allows the general public to review and assess complaint statistics, complaint statistics by bias motivation and arrest statistics by bias motivation? b. Is there any future plan to provide graphs or other appropriate interactive interface mechanisms so that the general public will be able to filter by precinct, borough, or zipcode? c. The 2017 report entitled Crime and Enforcement Activity in New York City[12] provides statistics on race and ethnicity along with complaint and arrest data. While the report provides valuable data on felony and misdemeanor crimes, it does not have any specific section related to hate crimes. i. Is there any plan to include such section in future reports? 6. How much funding is currently allocated by the Department to prevent, solve, and mitigate hate crimes? a. What funding sources (federal, state, or city) does the NYPD depend on to address and prevent bias and hate crimes? b. Based on your answers to 6a., and given the recent rise in hate crime incidents, does the NYPD intend to change its budget proposals, projections, or estimates to increase funding to address, prevent, and solve hate crimes? We would like to reiterate our sincerest thanks to the NYPD as we continue to work together to reduce hate crimes and bias incidents in our communities. We respectfully request a response within 60 calendar days of this letter. Your response will be crucial in determining appropriate next steps and, based on available data, provide critical insight as we examine the need for additional assistance under the legislative process. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Jerrold Nadler Joseph Crowley Thomas R. Suozzi Eliot Engel Grace Meng Carolyn B. Maloney Kathleen Rice Adriano Espaillat José E. Serrano Yvette D. Clarke Hakeem S. Jeffries Gregory W. Meeks # # #
11.26.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today regarding protests taking place in San Juan this week to call for action to address gender-based violence on the Island: “Puerto Rico is seeing a crisis of violence against women, with at least 22 women having perished this year alone at the hands of husbands and domestic partners. This is a moral affront that requires immediate action. The women who are calling for an Executive Order from the Governor are making a just and reasonable request and one that I support. The fact that they are being met, instead, with force from the police is unacceptable. I call on the police to show maximum restraint toward these women who are exercising their First Amendment right of free expression. I further ask the Governor to heed the calls for tangible steps addressing violence against women on the Island. “For too long, Puerto Rico has had one of the highest rates of domestic violence, which has been exacerbated following Hurricane Maria. The Puerto Rican government has an obligation to respond swiftly and I stand with these women who are calling for responsible leadership on this issue.” ###
11.19.2018	Washington, DC – While Congress recently moved to help employee-owned firms utilize the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) lending programs, lawmakers are raising red flags that the way the rules are being drafted could create additional barriers. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) have written the Small Business Administration (SBA) expressing concerns over how the agency is implementing the new law. As a part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, Congress enacted legislation authored by Velázquez and Gillibrand to assist employee-owned business models like Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP) and cooperatives (co-op). Specifically, the NDAA includes provisions to help small firms transition into an employee-owned business, including streamlining the loan approval process for ESOPs within SBA flagship 7(a) lending program. However, the SBA’s proposed rule would prevent loans for employee-owned business models from being processed under “delegated authority” from SBA’s lenders. In the letter, Velázquez and Gillibrand press Administrator McMahon to reconsider the rule, which they argue runs counter to Congressional intent and would needlessly make it harder for employee-owned businesses to access SBA loans. “After witnessing the success of local co-operative businesses in Brooklyn and other parts of my district, I believe that we must ensure similar business models across the country have the tools they need to thrive,” said Velázquez. “For this reason, I was proud to join Senator Gillibrand in passing legislation to help employee-owned enterprises tap in to the SBA’s capital access programs. Unfortunately, as currently written, the SBA’s proposed rule would create another barrier by precluding loans for these entities from being considered under delegated lending authority. That simply means more red tape, fewer loans and slower processing times. It certainly wasn’t what Congress intended when creating the new law.” “Too many hardworking New Yorkers still struggle to get jobs that pay them enough to take care of their families and save for retirement. That is why I was proud that Congress passed into law this bipartisan bill I was proud to lead with Representative Velázquez to help companies reward work without sacrificing profit,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Employee-owned businesses have a strong track record of better pay and retirement benefits for workers and a commitment to creating local jobs. Putting another barrier on SBA loans through this new rule would further hamper the critical access to capital that so many New York companies rely on when transitioning to ESOPs. I am calling on SBA Administrator McMahon to amend this proposed rule to ensure that ESOPs can access the capital they need.” ESOPs and co-ops have a known track record of success, with companies that transition to the employee-ownership model seeing an increase in productivity by 4 to 5 percent. As one in six workers nationwide work for a business owner who is at or near retirement age, Velázquez and Gillibrand are striving to empower workers by making it easier for business owners to transition their firms to an employee-owned structure. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. November 16, 2018 The Honorable Linda McMahon Administrator United States Small Business Administration 409 3rd Street, SW Washington, DC 20416 Administrator McMahon: We write to express our strong objection to your proposed rule governing SBA-guaranteed loans to qualified employee trusts (employee stock ownership plans, or “ESOPs”), which you noticed on September 28, 2018.[1] Specifically, SBA is proposing to amend its regulation at 13 C.F.R. § 120.350 to prohibit applications for SBA-guaranteed loans to ESOPs for the purposes of either helping finance the growth of the business or to purchase ownership or voting control of the employer from being processed under a lender’s delegated authority.[2] If finalized in its proposed form, 13 C.F.R. § 120.350 would be in direct contravention of the policy enacted by Congress in Section 862 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA),[3] which charges SBA with promoting enhanced employee ownership of ESOPs by maximizing the ability to affordably access capital. Therefore, we strongly object to the proposed regulation on the processing of ESOP loan applications, and urge that the final version of 13 C.F.R. § 120.350 be aligned with the policy embodied in Section 862 of the NDAA – allowing applications for these loans to be processed under a lender’s delegated authority. As has been stressed to SBA recently, nearly half of all privately-held businesses in the U.S. are owned by individuals who are at or near retirement age, representing more than 2.3 million companies, and employing close to 25 million workers in total (one in six workers nationwide). Though more than half of these small business owners expect to retire within the next ten years, fewer than 15 percent have a formal exit plan in place. Only a small percentage of these businesses will be passed on to family members or bought by another local company. Instead, many of these businesses could be bought out by competitors or even close due to a lack of planning or inability to find a buyer; both of which result in damage to local communities from lost jobs and revenue. This “baby boomer cliff” is a very real concern for the business owner who may not have enough money on which to retire, and employees of those businesses, who struggle with the uncertainty of their boss’ future retirement plans. As this trend accelerates in the coming years, it is crucial that those small business employees be empowered to transition the business to an employee-owned model, preserving the firm’s independence and protecting it from the risk of decline, buyout, or outright closure. In order to address this issue, Congress included numerous provisions in the NDAA[4] seeking to ease a small firm’s transition to an employee-owned model. Notably, Section 862(b) expands the 7(a) loan guaranty program to ESOPs to align the program with current industry financing practices.[5] Most importantly, though, is the provision in Section 862(b)(2), which expressly adds loans to ESOPs to the group of loans guaranteed by SBA which may be processed under a lender’s delegated authority.[6] Thus, the Congressional intent of the legislation authorizing SBA to allow for delegated authority clearly recognizes the ability of experienced lenders to process these transactions. However, the agency did not follow through with this intent and instead summarily denied such transactions from delegated authority based on the “complex nature of these transactions.”[7] Such revocation of delegated authority should be based on the lender’s ability to process a transaction, not solely on the type of transaction. In fact, many of the lenders delegated with partial or full authority to approve loans are some of the most technically savvy lenders to take on the “complex nature of these transactions.” Finally, with appropriate supporting documentation and requisite oversight currently in place, SBA has the necessary tools to ensure loan processing of ESOP transactions is performed properly. It is therefore our strong recommendation that SBA amend this section of the current proposed rule. The final rule should align with this clearly-articulated intent to allow the delegation of authority for these transactions. It is of the upmost importance and a simple policy goal to encourage more and quicker lending to ESOPs, so they may affordably access capital needed to transition their businesses to an employee-owned model. The new law was written with the intent to increase the availability of capital to ESOPs and other employee-owned models because it is clear SBA is not fulfilling its full potential in assisting new and transitioning companies. As a result, employee-owned businesses have been put at a disadvantage. It is our hope that we can work together over the coming months to ensure that SBA creates a rule that follows Congressional intent. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Kirsten Gillibrand Member of Congress United States Senator ###
11.19.2018	Say Future Aid Shouldn’t be Used for Debt Repayment Washington, DC – In the wake of President Trump’s statement calling for “no more Puerto Rico relief funds,” Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and six additional Members of Congress have written the President condemning his comment, saying pulling federal relief aid would have a “catastrophic effect on the Island’s already fragile recovery.” In the letter, the lawmakers instead suggest that future legislation should preclude disaster relief funds from being used to pay for Puerto Rico’s debt. “President Trump and Republicans in Congress turned their backs on the American citizens of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, and the island is still suffering from their neglect,” Grijalva said. “We need to hold hearings, address the humanitarian crisis and provide every resource we can to help the island rebuild. Instead the president is threatening to pull the little federal relief the island is getting. Nobody wants to see debt relief funds end up in the hands of Wall Street hedge funds and bondholders, but that’s no reason to end aid entirely. Democrats are pushing for a better way that puts the people of Puerto Rico first.” “The President’s ultimate responsibility is to keep Americans safe during times of disaster and recovery,” said Velázquez. “Certainly, disaster assistance funds shouldn’t be siphoned off to pay hedge funds and Wall Street creditors. However, the answer isn’t to slash assistance to our fellow citizens who are in desperate need, but rather to provide the necessary aid and ensure that it is walled off from creditors.” “If President Trump were serious about stopping federal relief aid from going to Wall Street, he’d support my and Representative Velázquez's bill to allow Puerto Rico to cancel its debt, or work with Congress to protect federal dollars from vulture funds,” said Warren. “His proposal to cut off aid to the island instead would just worsen his administration’s already catastrophic response to Hurricane Maria.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. November 15, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our serious concern that your call for “no more Puerto Rico relief funds”[1], if materialized, would have a catastrophic effect on the Island’s already fragile recovery. We understand your position that no disaster relief funds that have or will be provided to Puerto Rico should be used to repay bond debt. To ensure this never occurs, we should work together to include language in all subsequent Puerto Rico disaster appropriations that such funds cannot be used – directly or indirectly - to pay any of Puerto Rico’s debt nor factored into any calculation of how much funds will be available for debt repayment. However, denying disaster relief funds to American citizens living on the Island is unacceptable. This letter is not the first time Members of Congress have raised the issue of federal recovery funds potentially going toward Puerto Rico’s debt repayment. Last February, several of us sent a letter to the Puerto Rico Federal Oversight and Management Board (“Oversight Board”) reminding them that Congress intended “100 percent of the funding to solely be used for rebuilding Puerto Rico and to help its residents recover from Hurricane Maria.”[2] In addition, after the Oversight Board approved a five-year Commonwealth fiscal plan (“Fiscal Plan”) that assumed $82 billion in federal hurricane recovery relief,[3] Members cautioned the Oversight Board not to impose any austerity measures on those living on the Island in order to facilitate any generous deals with bondholders.[4] The Oversight Board has also been on record on the issue. The Fiscal Plan itself projects that the disaster relief funding will be disbursed in the reconstruction effort as a mix of individual assistance, public assistance and the expected cost-share requirements. Moreover, the Oversight Board's Executive Director recently said that none of the funds in the Fiscal Plan would be budgeted for debt payments, but rather to help stimulate the economy.[5] The job of the recovery of the Island, separate and apart from the work of the Oversight Board, is far from over. The scale of the destruction from Hurricanes Irma and Maria was unprecedented and the government of Puerto Rico has estimated that they will need approximately $134 billion to completely rebuild the devastated island.[6] So far, less than a third of this total has been appropriated.[7] More than a year later, nearly everyone remaining on the Island “lives with some portion of the emotional and physical trauma that accompanied the storm’s far-reaching devastation and its grueling aftermath: the weeks and months without power, reliable healthcare, basic government services or many of the conveniences and safeguards of modern life to which they were accustomed.”[8]As such, it is premature to stop recovery funds from going to Puerto Rico irrespective of our shared concern regarding payments to bondholders. The American citizens residing on Puerto Rico continue to need our assistance in their recovery. The federal government needs to both provide the Island with the help that it needs as well as ensure that none of that help is used to repay creditors. We look forward to working with you for the benefit of the people of Puerto Rico. Sincerely, __________________ __________________ __________________ Raúl M. Grijalva Nydia M. Velázquez Elizabeth Warren Member of Congress Member of Congress United States Senator __________________ __________________ __________________ Luis V. Gutiérrez Bennie G. Thompson Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ Adriano Espaillat Robert Menendez Member of Congress United States Senator __________________ Darren Soto Member of Congress ###
11.13.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today released the following statement: “Nancy Pelosi has successfully led our Caucus through some of the toughest battles we’ve seen. Without her ability to keep us united and focused, we would not have passed the Affordable Care Act, nor turned back Republican efforts last Congress to repeal it. She’s fought tirelessly for better wages for workers and greater economic opportunity for all Americans, something I’ve observed in my role as the top Democrat on the Small Business Committee. Nancy’s been a stalwart advocate on immigration issues, something that will be even more important as we take on the Trump Administration’s xenophobic policies in the next Congress. “I will also say that, as House Democrats enter the Majority following an election cycle that elected record numbers of women to public service, we must continue elevating strong female voices in our party’s leadership. There’s been no stronger woman in the U.S. Congress than Leader Pelosi. I enthusiastically support her to be Speaker in the 116th Congress.” ###
11.13.2018	Bill Would Award the Congressional Gold Medal to Rabbi Michoel Ber Weissmandl Washington, DC –This evening, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to award a Congressional gold medal to Rabbi Michoel Ber Weissmandl, whose heroic actions saved countless lives during the Holocaust. “Today, my colleagues came together to support awarding a Congressional gold medal, the highest civilian honor, to a man who dedicated his life to saving others from Hitler’s unconscionable attacks on the Jewish people,” said Velázquez. “After the war, Rabbi Weissmandl made his way to New York City where his legacy in the Jewish community is still heavily felt today. He is in every way deserving of this award.” During World War II, Weissmandl spearheaded multiple efforts to prevent the deaths of the Jewish people of Slovakia facing the Nazi regime. In his role as a key member of an underground organization called the Bratislava Working Group, Weissmandl led an effort to negotiate ransom with German and Slovakian officials in order to delay mass deportations. Weissmandl also wrote the first known appeal for the use of aerial bombs to destroy the rail lines and tunnels leading to Auschwitz. In 1945, Weissmandl arrived in New York, where he immediately started working to better the lives of Holocaust survivors. To do so, Weissmandl established a home for survivors and the Yishiva of Nitra in Mount Kisco, New York, the first Yeshiva campus in America. “The Congressional Gold Medal was designed to honor those whose remarkable achievements live on in our history,” said Velázquez. “During some of humanity’s darkest hours, a period we must never forget, Rabbi Weissmandl undertook great personal risk to save others and lessen the suffering of the Jewish people.” H.R. 2740, the Rabbi Michoel Ber Weissmandl Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2017, was introduced by Velázquez and Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL) and co-sponsored by 296 bipartisan Members of Congress. Having passed the House, the bill will now move to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
10.29.2018	Velázquez Calls for Liver Cancer Prevention, Treatment Resources Washington, DC –As the nation observes Liver Cancer Awareness Month, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled legislation to increase federal assistance to study, prevent and treat liver cancer. When compared with other cancers, liver cancer has traditionally been unfunded at the federal level. The ailment disproportionally affects Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders. The “Liver Illness, Visibility, Education, and Research (LIVER) Act of 2018,” would allocate needed federal dollars to help at-risk populations prevent and treat liver cancer and would dedicate greater federal research dollars toward finding a cure. “Too many of our neighbors have lost a loved one due to liver cancer or are struggling themselves to fight this disease,” said Velázquez. “My legislation would give our local hospitals and community health centers federal support they deserve to study liver cancer and help our neighbors access preventative and primary cancer services.” Since liver cancer is rarely detected early, it has a high mortality rate. In 2018, approximately 42,220 people in the United States will be diagnosed with primary liver cancer, and approximately 30,200 will die from the disease. The disease is particularly prevalent among Asian-Americans and Pacific Islander men and women, who have 2.1 and 2.3 times the incidence of liver and intrahepatic bile duct cancer as compared to the non-Hispanic white population. However, scientists have noted that taking preventative steps such as increasing vaccinations and improving treatments for hepatitis could significantly reduce the prevalence of liver cancer. “Like so many other types of cancer, liver cancer becomes much more treatable when it is detected early,” said Velázquez. “By deploying federal resources to help local treatment and research facilities encourage at-risk New Yorkers to get screened for liver cancer, we can help to save lives and lessen the deadly consequences of this disease.” Velázquez’s bill would direct the National Cancer Institute to create a Specialized Program of Research Excellence (SPORE) for primary liver cancer and makes hospitals and healthcare facilities eligible to receive funding for experimental treatment and prevention programs. Additionally, the bill would mandate two new grant programs at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) one to increase prevention services and another to target informational materials towards at-risk populations. To facilitate research efforts, the bill would start a Liver Disease Division within National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), to establish a working group to coordinate research efforts, and directing the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and NIDDK to issue targeted calls for research proposals. Velázquez’s bill has been endorsed by numerous local and national organizations including: Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO); Hep B United, Hep B Foundation; Betances Health Center; Charles B. Wang Community Health Center; Lower East Side Service Center; African Services Committee; Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; and Montefiore Health System.
10.03.2018	Leads 81 Members of Congress in Introducing Legislation to Expand VA Resources Washington, DC –As the nation recognizes Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled legislation to target assistance to domestic violence survivors in the veteran’s and military community. The “Violence Against Women Veterans Act,” H.R. 6869, would improve services for women veterans experiencing domestic abuse. “Sadly, domestic abuse and violence appear to be widespread among the veterans and servicemember communities,” said Velázquez. “No woman should be denied help or resources when they most need it and we must ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs is proactively addressing this problem.” In 1988, the VA created the Women Veterans Health Program to streamline services for female veterans. Today, as more service roles are being made available to women in uniform, women make up the fastest growing group of veterans. Unfortunately, this advancement has also lead to an increase in sexual assault and harassment for female servicemembers both during their time in the armed services and after. It is estimated that one third of female veterans experience domestic violence compared with less than a quarter of civilian women. Congress recently recognized the scope of this problem by designating domestic violence a separate crime under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 6869, would take important strides towards increasing resources for veterans affected by domestic violence. First, it would establish local domestic and sexual violence outreach coordinators under the VA, who would be tasked with helping veterans utilize existing service providers. Second, it would codify the current VA Task Force on Domestic Violence and direct it to establish a comprehensive national program to prevent and treat intimate partner violence. Finally, Velázquez’s bill would fill an existing lack of data by directing the VA to complete a national study on the prevalence and causes of domestic violence among veterans. “Confronting domestic violence is extremely difficult, but no survivor should ever be made to feel alone in the process of standing up to her or his abuser,” said Velázquez. “Drawing attention to the need for comprehensive reforms in the way our institutions handle domestic violence ought to be a priority not just this month, but every month.” ###
09.26.2018	Washington, DC –As the “Me Too” era draws badly needed attention to the longstanding problem of sexual misconduct, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to combat sexual harassment related to housing. The “Sexual Harassment Awareness and Prevention Act” would ensure the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) proactively works with other agencies to collect information on sexual harassment and abuse claims related to housing. “If the ‘Me Too’ movement has taught us anything it is this: anywhere there is an imbalance of power – from Hollywood to Wall Street to the workplace – there’s room for abuse and, sadly, there’s the potential for sexual misconduct,” said Velázquez. “We need to ensure that when it comes to the housing sphere we are taking a hard look at these kinds of abuse and that we are standing with survivors, whether it is a tenant in public housing who is harassed by a landlord, a Section 8 recipient who is subject to unwanted advances from a voucher administrator or someone who is treated inappropriately when applying for a government-backed mortgage.” Velázquez’s bill comes on the heels of a BBC report that exposed the dark reality that many women seeking housing assistance are coerced into sexual favors. These incidents often go unreported due to fear of losing their housing benefits or suffering other retaliation. According to the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, there were 800 complaints related to sex in Fiscal Year 2016. However, Velázquez argued those numbers likely do not provide a full accounting of the problem and said that there needs to be more specific data gathered on the topic. “The first step to solving any problem is fully grasping its scope and this bill would ensure federal agencies are proactively looking at this issue,” Velázquez added. “We need a full accounting of how widespread this problem is and that requires different federal agencies to step up and tackle this issue head on.” Velázquez’s bill, “The Sexual Harassment Awareness and Prevention Act,” would take three important steps towards preventing sexual harassment for residents receiving federal housing assistance. First, it would require HUD to collect demographic and programmatic data on complaints of sexual harassment, filling a current lack of data. Second, it would commission a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report to study the effectiveness of existing initiatives at HUD to address sexual harassment, mandating that recommendations for improvement be issued. Finally, the bill would establish an Interagency Task Force on Prohibitions Against Sexual Harassment that would implement the GAO’s recommendations and monitor any ongoing issues. “We are approaching a long overdue turning point in American culture with regards to sexual misconduct,” Velázquez added. “Part of this conversation is realizing that these types of abuses are sadly prevalent in almost every part of our society. We need to recognize that includes housing and federal housing benefits and work together to examine and, ultimately, address problems in that sphere.” Velázquez’s bill has been endorsed by the National Fair Housing Alliance, the National Housing Law Project, the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, the National Network to End Domestic Violence, the National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty, the Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law, and the National Low Income Housing Coalition. The Congresswoman is the third most senior Democrat on the Financial Services Committee and the only New York City Member of Congress to serve on the Housing Subcommittee. ###
09.25.2018	“COUNT Act” Will Set Federal Standards for Death Counts Passage Follows Controversy Surrounding Maria Mortality Rate in Puerto Rico Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives is on track to approve legislation that would establish federal guidelines for death tolls following disasters. The “Count Act”, introduced in the House by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), has been incorporated into the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill, H.R. 302, which is widely expected to pass the House Wednesday with bipartisan support and receive Senate approval shortly thereafter. “For months, after Maria devastated Puerto Rico, the local government claimed the death toll was only 64, while anecdotal evidence suggested it was tragically higher,” Velázquez noted. “We also watched as Donald Trump pointed to the artificially low death toll as evidence that his Administration was responding appropriately, when, in reality, a humanitarian catastrophe was befalling our fellow American citizens.” Velázquez introduced the COUNT Act, H.R. 6048, in June. As incorporated into the larger bill, Velázquez legislation requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to contract with the National Academy of Medicine to study best practices for mortality counts after major disasters. “How death tolls are tallied shapes the public’s opinion of the severity of disasters and, as such, an artificially low estimate can influence the federal response,” Velázquez added. “For too long, the wildly inaccurate death estimate in Puerto Rico was used to excuse a feeble, ineffective federal response.” After months of study, in May, a study from the Harvard School of Public Health estimated the death toll could range from 793 to as high as 8,498. More recently, in August, an analysis by the George Washington University Milken Institute School of Public Health was commissioned by the government of Puerto Rico. It concluded that 2,975 deaths could be attributed to Maria. In September, Donald Trump made several comments by Tweet, disputing the GWU estimate. Those remarks drew a strong rebuke when Velázquez and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) led 130 Members of Congress in writing to the President demanding a retraction and an apology. “It has been clear since the beginning that the President and this White House wanted to under count the loss of life in Puerto Rico to disguise the Administration’s bumbled response to this national tragedy,” Velázquez said. “That’s shameful and this bill will establish clear metrics following future catastrophes to make clear the severity of these tragedies.” A Senate version of the COUNT Act was introduced in June by Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA). “I thank Senator Harris for her leadership on this issue and look forward to seeing these provisions swiftly approved in the Senate,” Velázquez added. Separately, Velázquez is also the author of legislation that would create a “9/11-Style” Commission to examine the federal response to Hurricanes Maria and Irma in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. # # #
09.24.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today in response to a new Department of Homeland Security (DHS) federal rule proposal that would deny lawful permanent residence to immigrants who participate in public benefits and discourage even U.S. citizens from accessing basic services. “If this rule becomes law, it would force families to consider forgoing basic services that keep our communities healthy and safe. In a particularly malevolent move, this proposal could put 7.9 million U.S. citizen children with immigrant parents at risk of losing access to services like food stamps, housing assistance and health insurance. While children's use of benefits may not explicitly be considered, the rule would create a climate of fear and have a chilling effect, dissuading many immigrants and their families – even those legally unaffected by the rule - from applying for benefits or causing them to unenroll for assistance they could otherwise receive.” ###
09.20.2018	Washington, DC – On the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria’s landfall in Puerto Rico, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) held a press event in New York City. Below are her remarks, as prepared for delivery. “Thank you all for coming. Let me especially thank Mayor De Blasio for joining us. “Today marks one year to the day since Hurricane Maria made landfall in my hometown of Yabucoa, Puerto Rico. Given this solemn anniversary I thought that it would make sense to bring us all together to reflect on what the past year has meant for the people of the Island and, equally important, to discuss how we move forward. “It does not give me any pleasure to say this, but I think it is now widely acknowledged that the Administration’s response to Maria has been an abject failure. The simple fact is that our federal government did not pre-position assets in place when they knew a Category 4 hurricane was barreling toward a vulnerable Island. After the Hurricane hit, the Administration’s response can be described as sluggish – at best. “We know now that this tragically inadequate response cost nearly 3,000 of our fellow citizens their lives. Whether it was from falling trees or debris, or from a dialysis machine not having power to operate, or from the suicide rate spiking during the longest blackout in American history – make no mistake – these deaths are attributed to Maria and, even worse, to this Administration’s woeful response. “This incompetence, this indifference, and this refusal to accept the dire reality starts at the top. That’s evidenced by the offensive Tweets the President put out questioning the death toll in Puerto Rico. “Yesterday, I joined with Senator Elizabeth Warren in leading more than 130 of my colleagues in writing Donald Trump to demand an apology and to retract those remarks, which are beneath the dignity of the Office of the President. “But, this is not just about coldhearted Tweets – or a war of words. This is about life and death – and how our government failed 3.5 million of our fellow citizens. The American people deserve to know what happened, and why it happened. I’ve introduced legislation to establish a “9/11 style” commission that would provide a full report on what happened after Maria. I’ve also introduced the “COUNT Act”, which would establish federal procedures for establishing death tolls after disasters. So, there needs to be accountability – and a recognition of how badly our nation failed our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico. “This includes Congressional oversight. Unfortunately, rather than holding meaningful hearings or working to improve disaster response, Republicans in Congress have bent over backwards to protect the Administration. Congress has a constitutional responsibility to get to the bottom of what happened, but Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell have abdicated that responsibility. That is shameful. “But, beyond exposing what went wrong, we also need to look to the future --- and take tangible steps to help the Island get back on its feet. One important step would be allocating funds to address Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall. Even before Maria, the Commonwealth was facing a looming healthcare crisis. Now, that problem has been exacerbated. Congress needs to act and act quickly. “Second, it is time to dispense with Puerto Rico’s debt. The Wall Street hedge funds and others who gambled that they could make billions by tearing the Island apart must be stopped once and for all. I’ve introduced legislation that would create a path for the Island to terminate their debt obligations. “Those are two, tangible items that the House and Senate could pass, right now, to help speed Puerto Rico on the path to recovery. As we look forward, one last component needs to be in building a sustainable, energy infrastructure. Puerto Rico gets sunshine 365 days a year. It has ample wind, that could power thousands of turbines. Yet, the bulk of the Island’s energy comes from diesel fuel. That make no sense and it needs to change – for two related reasons. “First, as we saw from Maria, from Harvey, from Irma, and most recently Florence – as our planet warms, these types of storms are becoming more frequent and more intense. Puerto Rico’s energy future needs to help solve climate change --- not worsen it. “Second, a smarter, more sustainable energy grid will be a more resilient energy grid. Imagine if when Maria struck, rather than transmission lines in rural areas taking ten months to repair – if instead local communities had stored up solar power – and had the lights back on in 24 or 72 hours. How much suffering would that have prevented? How many lives might have been saved? So sustainable energy needs to be part of the conversation. “I have said before and I will say it again – New York shares a unique and unbreakable bond with Puerto Rico. Puerto Ricans are our brothers and sisters. They are family. And New Yorkers take care of our family. “So, as we continue fighting for a brighter future, I am proud to be joined by so many New Yorkers today who have contributed so much to helping Puerto Rico come back.” ###
09.19.2018	Washington, DC –According to Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), a federal program to assist homeowners facing foreclosure is not being fully utilized. In a letter to the Treasury Department, Velázquez is urging Secretary Mnuchin to tap into the “Hardest Hit Fund,” and to allow Puerto Rico to apply. Established in 2010, the Hardest Hit Fund contains federal funding for local housing agencies to carry out foreclosure prevention and relief solutions. One year after devastation from Hurricane Maria compounded an already dire housing crisis in Puerto Rico, Velázquez is arguing that additional federal assistance is necessary to help families afford their homes. In her letter, Velázquez argues that the unique circumstances of Puerto Rico’s housing crisis, namely: a decline in home value and ownership; high unemployment rates; and a prevalence of vacant or abandoned homes, mirror criteria established to give states access to the program in the past. “Before been hit by Hurricane Maria’s wrath, Puerto Rico was facing another type of hurricane, an economic one,” said Velázquez. “At the time of Maria’s landfall, many homeowners were already struggling to make their mortgage payments, while many others were priced out of the market altogether. Tragically, Maria compounded their challenges, making landfall as one of the destructive Hurricanes in American history. As we now approach one year since Maria, the federal government has a moral responsibility to help our fellow Americans. Deploying funding under the Hardest Hit Fund would be a step in the right direction towards helping families afford to stay in their homes and rebuilding a more resilient Puerto Rico.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. September 17, 2018 The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin: I am writing to urge you to initiate a new round of funding from the Treasury Department’s Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) and to permit the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to apply in order to help its residents currently struggling to repay their mortgages following the devastating 2017 hurricane season. As you know, the HHF is designed to provide funding to state housing agencies so they may design and implement locally-tailored foreclosure prevention and relief solutions.[1] Currently, Puerto Rico is facing a housing crisis that began with the housing market downturn and Great Recession of 2007-08 and was exacerbated by Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 2017. In Puerto Rico, nearly 272,000 housing units, or more than 17 percent of the total housing inventory, is estimated to have sustained moderate or major damage or was destroyed from the hurricanes.[2] Overall, home values and home ownership are down on the Island. The risk of foreclosures is up, and with that, the possibility of thousands of homeowners being forced into a rental market that will absorb an unacceptably large portion of their incomes. Continued out-migration due to Hurricane Maria will only continue to depress the labor market, and there is no concrete plan in place either at the federal or Commonwealth level to seriously address the 300,000 vacant homes across the Island. It is thus imperative that Treasury respond to these catastrophic disasters by allocating a new round of HHF funding and allow Puerto Rico to apply. The nature of this crisis – prolonged stagnation in the housing market, combined with widespread devastation from two major hurricanes – demand locally-designed solutions, and accordingly, merit access by Puerto Rico to the funds in the HHF. In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Maria, the federal agencies—the Federal Housing Administration, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs—that back mortgages in Puerto Rico instituted moratoria on foreclosures, enabling at-risk homeowners to focus their scarce financial and other resources on disaster recovery. However, beginning this summer, some of those same agencies began foreclosing on delinquent borrowers,[3] creating a sense of uncertainty regarding homeownership on the Island that will only worsen as more agencies restart foreclosure proceedings. Since its creation in 2010, the HHF has allocated funding through five rounds using the Treasury Secretary’s broad authority to identify eligible states.[4] Notably, through the very first round of funding, Treasury made a total of $1.5 billion available to the five states that experienced the greatest declines in home prices as of December 2009.[5] On this key housing metric, the data for Puerto Rico is comparable to those of the states that received funding in that Puerto Rico has similarly experienced a precipitous decline in home values, making Puerto Rico a strong candidate for eligibility for the HHF. Since 2005, Puerto Rico’s median home value has declined across the Island by at least 10 percent.[6] Further, the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s quarterly, purchase-only, non-seasonally adjusted housing price index, which measures home sales prices for Puerto Rico, shows a significant decline in home prices, which would be appropriately addressed by allocating a new round of HHF funding to the Island.[7] In this index, 1995 is the base year with a value of 100.[8] During the second quarter of 2017, this index was 141.91, which was a decline of more than 10 percent from the second quarter of 2016.[9] The index is currently nearly 2 percent below the level of 144.36 recorded during the fourth quarter of 2000 and more than 29 percent below the peak in the fourth quarter of 2007.[10] Homeownership in Puerto Rico is also trending downward. As of September 1, 2017, the owner vacancy rate was estimated at 3.4 percent, up from 2.8 percent in 2010 and 1.7 percent in 2000.[11] The decline in the homeownership rate is partly the result of an elevated rate of seriously delinquent (90 or more days delinquent or in foreclosure) and real estate-owned (REO) properties compared with the mainland United States, caused by the local economic downturn combined with the Great Recession and the national housing crisis.[12] As of August 2017, 12 percent of all home loans were seriously delinquent or had transitioned into REO status, down from 15.7 percent one year earlier and 16.5 percent in August 2015.[13] By comparison, seriously delinquent loans and REO properties in the United States during August 2017 averaged 2.7 percent, down from 3.4 percent in August 2016 and 4.2 percent during the same time in 2015.[14] This comparison demonstrates homeownership has been, and remains, significantly depressed in Puerto Rico vis-à-vis the rest of the nation. Presumably, when a homeowner is foreclosed on and loses their home, they turn to the rental market to meet their housing needs. Unfortunately, Puerto Rican renters face similar troubles as homeowners, and the data regarding the rental market helps paint a fuller picture of the depressed state of Puerto Rico’s housing market. Of the renter households that pay rent, the median gross rent in Puerto Rico during 2016 was $463, which was up an average of more than 1 percent annually from $429 in 2010.[15] Housing affordability for renters is also a serious issue plaguing Puerto Rico’s housing sector. For households in occupied rental units paying rent in 2016, more than 52 percent of all renter households in Puerto Rico are “cost-burdened,” which is defined as a household contributing more than 30 percent of its monthly income towards rent, with nearly 45 percent paying more than 35 percent.[16] A second study demonstrates that an estimated 17 percent of all households in San Juan are cost-burdened,[17] and an additional 21 percent are severely cost-burdened, defined as a household contributing 50 percent or more of its monthly income towards rent.[18] The significant rent burden faced by many Puerto Rican renters highlights that foreclosed home owners who are forced to enter the rental market will still be required to allocate a substantial portion of their monthly income to their housing costs. Additionally, the second and third rounds of HHF funding made a total of $2.6 billion available to states with high unemployment rates.[19] Particularly, the third round of funding was designated for states at or above the national average unemployment rate.[20] Puerto Rico meets that standard. The Commonwealth’s unemployment rate during the 12 months ending in August 2017 averaged 11.3 percent, down from the average of 11.8 percent during the previous 12 months.[21] The decline in the unemployment rate is attributable to a decline in the labor force of 13,500 workers or job seekers, or 1.2 percent, during the 12 months ending in August 2017.[22] Puerto Rico’s unemployment rate peaked at 16.0 percent in 2010, and has slowly decreased since then as the Labor Force Participation Rate continued to simultaneously decrease.[23] This decline is likely the result of out-migration from Puerto Rico going back to 2010. Since 2010, Puerto Rico’s population has declined by an average of 54,050 people, or 1.5 percent, annually, with net out-migration averaging 60,900 people annually.[24] Unfortunately, Hurricane Maria has only accelerated this out-migration,[25] which means the state of employment on the Island will only continue to deteriorate. By comparison, for the same 12-month period ending August 2017, the unemployment rate on the mainland averaged 4.6 percent, down from the average of 4.9 percent during the previous 12 months.[26] For the most recent 12-month period, covering August 2017 through July 2018, Puerto Rico’s unemployment rate averaged 10.3 percent.[27] This data is comparable to the unemployment rates experienced in the states that participated in the second and third HHF rounds in that, like those states, Puerto Rico’s unemployment rate has consistently been above the national average. Finally, one of the most common ways state housing agencies use HHF funds is blight elimination, by which states provide funds to demolish or otherwise address vacant or abandoned homes.[28] Here too, the data for Puerto Rico is compelling, supporting the notion that Puerto Rico would be a strong candidate to apply for the HHF. The number of vacant homes in Puerto Rico increased from 11 percent in 2006 to 18 percent in 2016, a 64 percent increase.[29] In 2016, at least 273,093 homes in Puerto Rico were vacant, compared to 153,493 in 2006.[30] The Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Policy Development and Research’s Comprehensive Housing Market Analysis for Puerto Rico, which is current as of September 1, 2017, corroborates this, placing its estimate at 300,000 vacant homes on the Island.[31] Accordingly, Puerto Rico would significantly benefit from accessing and using HHF funds because it would enable the Island to begin addressing the serious blight problem it currently faces. Taken in isolation, any one of these metrics establish a strong case for allowing Puerto Rico to apply for the HHF funds. However, in combination they paint a bleak picture of the state of Puerto Rico’s housing sector that, when viewed jointly with the Island’s ongoing long-term recovery from Hurricanes Irma and Maria, compels the federal government to respond accordingly. Puerto Rico stands at a critical crossroads in its history, and the way the recovery from the hurricanes is handled could determine the economic well-being of Puerto Rico for decades to come. As affordable housing is central to the health of an economy, I implore you to allocate a new round of HHF funding and allow Puerto Rico to apply. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
09.19.2018	In Bicameral Letter, Lawmakers Demand Apology, Call on President to Acknowledge Official Death Toll and Improve Recovery Efforts in Puerto Rico Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), along with 116 of their House colleagues and 14 of their Senate colleagues, today sent a letter to President Trump denouncing his recent statements about the fatalities in Puerto Rico from Hurricanes Irma and Maria and their aftermath. The lawmakers’ letter, which comes nearly one year since Hurricane Maria’s landfall in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, calls on President Trump to immediately apologize and set the record straight by publicly acknowledging the official death toll. Puerto Rico’s official death toll currently stands at 2,975 and is based on a months-long study commissioned by the Government of Puerto Rico and carried out by researchers at George Washington University’s Milken Institute School of Public Health. This figure is consistent with other credible estimates, including a study by researchers from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Carlos Albizu University in Puerto Rico, and the University of Colorado School of Medicine. In their letter to the President, the lawmakers strongly condemned President Trump’s tweets about the death toll in which he claimed that “3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico” and suggested that the death toll was inflated by Democrats in order to smear him politically. “These comments were grossly inaccurate, callous, embarrassing and beneath the dignity of the Office of the President of the United States,” the lawmakers wrote. “…[Y]ou sought to distort the truth and, in doing so, gravely insulted the mourning families of the thousands of American citizens who died from Maria and the storm’s aftermath.” The lawmakers also rejected the President’s remarks as a deliberate attempt to deflect blame from his Administration’s response to Hurricane Maria. “The lost lives of U.S. citizens are no political stunt, and this is not a partisan matter,” the lawmakers continued. “In fact, one could easily surmise that your comment is a blatant effort to politicize this national tragedy to distract, divide and deflect blame from how the federal government responded to the hurricane.” The lawmakers called on President Trump to swiftly apologize for his statements about the death toll, to improve his efforts to aid Puerto Rico in its recovery, and to ensure his Administration provides an effective response to Hurricane Florence. The full text of the letter is below. A .pdf with the full list of signatories is available here. September 18, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to denounce your recent statements about the fatalities in Puerto Rico from Hurricanes Irma and Maria and their aftermath. These comments were grossly inaccurate, callous, embarrassing and beneath the dignity of the Office of the President of the United States. We call on you to immediately apologize and set the record straight by publicly acknowledging the official death toll. As you are well aware, Puerto Rico’s official death toll currently stands at 2,975 and was based on a months-long study by researchers at George Washington University’s Milken Institute School of Public Health.[1] This figure is consistent with other credible estimates, including a study by researchers from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Carlos Albizu University in Puerto Rico, and the University of Colorado School of Medicine.[2] Furthermore, the Puerto Rico government’s own official mortality data showed that “there were at least 1,400 additional deaths on the island in the months after Hurricane Maria as compared with the same time the previous year.”[3] When you wrote on Twitter, “3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico,” you sought to distort the truth and, in doing so, gravely insulted the mourning families of the thousands of American citizens who died from Maria and the storm’s aftermath. Your claim that the increased death toll “was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible” is highly offensive—not just to your fellow public servants who happen not to share your party affiliation, but also to the people of Puerto Rico who lost friends and family in the hurricanes and their aftermath. The lost lives of U.S. citizens are no political stunt, and this is not a partisan matter. In fact, one could easily surmise that your comment is a blatant effort to politicize this national tragedy to distract, divide and deflect blame from how the federal government responded to the hurricane. Finally, your comment “If a person died for any reason, like old age, just add them onto the list” betrayed a profound misinterpretation of hurricanes’ impact on mortality. Many lives lost in the weeks following the hurricane could have been prevented by an effective response—but they were not. You then doubled down on this comment in multiple tweets the next day. It is unclear whether your commentary on this topic stems from ignorance of the post-storm reality in Puerto Rico or a willful effort to mislead and manipulate the American people about the humanitarian crisis that befell their fellow citizens. Regardless of your motivation, this false statement is unacceptable and must be retracted. After a disaster, the President needs to lead the country in the recovery effort, not attempt to shift blame or openly question the tragic loss of life. As President of the United States, you have a solemn obligation to lead and serve all American citizens, regardless of their political party or whether they reside in the mainland United States or in the territories. In impugning the Island’s suffering after Maria, you have abdicated that responsibility. Puerto Ricans are American citizens who have served and shed blood in our wars, giving their lives to defend our nation’s freedoms. They deserve to be treated with the same dignity and respect we would afford any American citizens following a catastrophic storm. To that end, we call on you to apologize for your unconscionable and unfounded claims, which belittle the scale of the tragedy suffered by the people of Puerto Rico and dishonestly cast partisan blame for their deaths. We also ask that you improve your efforts to aid Puerto Rico in its recovery and to ensure your Administration provides an effective, efficient and compassionate response to Hurricane Florence. You owe this to the U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico and across the United States of America. Sincerely, ### [1] George Washington University Milken Institute School of Public Health, “Milken Institute SPH Project Will Estimate the Excess Mortality in Puerto Rico Tied to Hurricane Maria,” February 22, 2018, https://publichealth.gwu.edu/content/milken-institute-sph-project-will-estimate-excess-mortality-puerto-rico-tied-hurricane-maria. [2] New England Journal of Medicine, “Mortality in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria,” Nishant Koshore et al., July 12, 2018, https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa1803972. [3] Washington Post, “New Puerto Rico data shows deaths increased by 1,400 after Hurricane Maria,” Arelis R. Hernández, June 1, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/new-puerto-rico-data-shows-deaths-increased-by-1400-after-hurricane-maria/2018/06/01/43bb4278-65e2-11e8-99d2-0d678ec08c2f_story.html.
09.18.2018	Washington, DC – Approaching the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria’s landfall, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is fighting to extend the deadline for affected homeowners and small businesses to secure a disaster loan under the Small Business Administration (SBA). To this end, Velázquez has introduced the “Access to Sufficient Capital for Everyone in Natural Disaster Areas Act of 2018,” (ASCEND Act) a bill that would extend SBA disaster loan applications for an additional year. In March and June of 2018, Velázquez wrote to SBA Administrator Linda McMahon asking for an extension of the June 18, 2018 deadline for physical disaster loans and June 20, 2018 deadline for economic injury loans related to Hurricanes Irma and Maria. In July, SBA notified Velázquez of its decision to extend the application filing deadline to August 2, 2018 for physical damage to match FEMA’s registration deadline for individual assistance. However, SBA is still receiving disaster applications from all three storms, and between August 31 and September 7, they received 290 disaster loan applications related to Hurricane Maria alone. “When Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, what followed was the longest blackout in American history, a reality that, compounding other challenges, left many homeowners and small businesses without the tools to file a disaster application,” said Velázquez. “One year from Maria, we must continue to shed light on the prolonged economic and structural damage that remains, especially as residents find themselves amid a new Atlantic hurricane season.” Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 6826, the “Access to Sufficient Capital for Everyone in Natural Disaster Areas Act of 2018,” (ASCEND Act) would address the ongoing need for disaster loans following Hurricanes Maria, Irma and Harvey. If passed, the ASCEND Act would extend the application period for these loans for an additional year from the date of its enactment. Recognizing that insurance does not always cover monetary losses after a natural disaster, Congress created SBA’s low-interest disaster loan program in 1953. With nearly 75 percent of small businesses admitting to not having a plan for disaster recover, FEMA has estimated that between 40 and 60 percent of businesses impacted by natural disasters fail to fully recover. In addition to extending the deadline for loan applications, the ASCEND Act would raise the minimum disaster loan amount that requires collateral under SBA from $14,000 to $25,000 for a period of five years. “Sadly, what we saw in 2017 amounted to the costliest year on record due to natural disaster,” said Velázquez. “In Puerto Rico, the severity of Maria’s damage was made worse by an inadequate federal response that left millions of American citizens to fend for themselves. As we approach one year since Maria’s landfall, I urge Congress to swiftly pass the ASCEND Act, so we can ensure that this important source of capital reaches those who are still desperately working to recover.” ###
09.17.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today recognizing Hispanic Heritage Month: “Hispanic Heritage Month is an opportunity for all Americans to pay tribute to the history, culture and achievements of our Latino communities. Whether by starting new businesses, protecting our freedoms by serving in our Armed forces, or advancing scientific and cultural contributions, Hispanic Americans help shape every facet of American life. “While this month provides opportunity to celebrate our progress, it is also a stark reminder of the work that remains to advance justice for Hispanic Americans. Throughout his presidency, President Trump and his Administration have promoted cruel policies that seek to vilify and dehumanize immigrants and Latinos. As a society, we must denounce the President’s xenophobic tendencies as an affront to American values. Acting in this vein, our government has a moral imperative to pass protections for Dreamers, reunite families separated under the President’s zero-tolerance policy and rebuild Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria took the lives of nearly 3,000 American citizens. “This Hispanic Heritage Month, let us reflect on the invaluable contributions of our Latino brothers and sisters. Let us also continue the necessary work of building a better future, one that honors America’s commitment to opportunity for all.” ###
09.13.2018	Says President is Gaslighting Nation After Administration’s Botched Maria Response Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following in response to President Trump’s latest Tweets on Puerto Rico. “This morning, President Trump shamelessly tried to gaslight our nation regarding 3,000 American citizens who perished after his Administration’s dismal response to Hurricane Maria. It was the Trump Administration’s incompetent response that resulted in Puerto Ricans enduring the longest blackout in American history, enormous suffering that continues to this day, and yes, an estimated 3,000 deaths of our fellow citizens. “Disaster response should not be a partisan issue and the President’s effort to deflect blame by politicizing a national tragedy is unconscionable. All Americans should condemn the President for his outrageous comments this morning.” ###
09.12.2018	New Official Fatality Count Almost 50 Times Higher than Previous Official Estimates Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and twenty additional Members of Congress in sending a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) probing the agencies on what actions they plan to take in light of the recent George Washington University report estimating that 2,975 deaths can be attributable to Hurricane Maria. "Compiling an accurate death toll is essential to understanding the true severity of conditions on the ground, identifying potential problems and vulnerabilities ... assessing the quality of disaster response, and setting policy moving forward," wrote the lawmakers. "These statistics also influence the amount of federal aid requested for pre- and post-disaster mitigation and adaptation plans ... which is of critical importance with this year's hurricane season underway." The letter also described the direct impact of an inaccurate death toll on Puerto Ricans' ability to receive federal funeral assistance through FEMA. To be eligible for funeral assistance, an applicant must produce an official death certificate indicating that the death was attributed to the emergency or disaster, either directly or indirectly. Citing statistics obtained from Administrator Long about the volume of applications for funeral assistance received by FEMA, the lawmakers pointed out that 97% of applicants had either been denied or had not received a response. The lawmakers also raised concerns about the GW study's conclusion that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's guidelines, which help ensure that medical certifiers know what constitutes a disaster-related death and how to document it on a death certificate, were not consistently followed. "Given that the death toll has officially increased to 2,975, we are concerned that there are many families who either qualified for such assistance and were denied, or are eligible for such assistance but are unable to produce the necessary documentation," the lawmakers continued. The lawmakers also asked a series of detailed questions about how the federal government will integrate the updated fatality count into its current disaster mitigation and adaptation plans for Puerto Rico. The full text of the letter can be found here. Velázquez has introduced the Counting Our Unexpected Natural Tragedies’ (COUNT) Victims Act to establish federal procedures for counting fatalities following a natural disaster. Additionally, Velázquez has introduced the National Commission of the Federal Response to Natural Disasters in Puerto Rico Act, which would establish a “9/11-style” independent commission to investigate the federal response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico. ###
09.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after President Trump referred to his Administration’s response to Hurricane Maria as an “incredible unsung success.” “The President’s remarks are not only tone deaf, but a moral affront to the 2,975 of our fellow citizens who we now know lost their lives to Hurricane Maria. “The President should apologize.” To establish federal procedures for counting fatalities following a natural disaster, Velázquez has introduced the Counting Our Unexpected Natural Tragedies’ (COUNT) Victims Act. To investigate the federal response to Hurricane Maria, Velázquez has introduced the National Commission of the Federal Response to Natural Disasters in Puerto Rico Act. ###
09.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement marking the anniversary of the terror attacks of September 11th, 2001: “On this day, 17 years ago, New York City and our nation suffered a horrific attack. The tragedy of September 11th, 2001 stole the lives of 3,000 innocent people and seared our City’s soul forever. “We will never forget the brave men and women who wasted no time in rushing into the burning buildings to save others. At a time when America was under attack, New Yorkers from all backgrounds came together, showing the world our City’s spirit of resilience and hope. “It is not enough, however, to honor the 9/11 first responders with words alone. While the rubble has been cleaned from our streets, many first responders continue to suffer the health consequences of their service. To this end, Congress must play its part by fully funding the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund and ensuring adequate resources are available to address this ongoing health crisis. “On this solemn anniversary, we mourn those we lost, send our gratitude to those who extended a helping hand and reaffirm our commitment to taking care of our first responders.” ###
09.10.2018	Points to Peter Wright’s Chemical Industry Ties Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written to Senate Leadership urging the chamber to reject Peter Wright’s nomination to a top post in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that oversees the Superfund program. Created in 1980, the Superfund program requires that corporate parties found responsible for a site’s pollution, be held accountable by contributing to cleanup costs. Velázquez argues that Wright’s track record of defending corporate polluters makes him unfit to be trusted to advance the cleanup of Superfund sites. In her letter, Velázquez’s details Wright’s role as a lawyer at Dow Chemical, where he has been accused of working to conceal the public health risks of the chemical, dioxin and strategically lessen Dow’s responsibility to contribute to a Superfund cleanup project in Midland, Michigan. “Putting a former Dow attorney who enabled the company’s pollution in charge of Superfund would mean the fox is guarding the henhouse,” said Velázquez. “This is yet one more example of Donald Trump putting big corporations before the public health and the Senate needs to reject this nomination.” Velázquez’s district contains three Superfund sites: the Gowanus Canal; Newtown Creek; and the Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. A top advocate for Superfund cleanup in Congress, Velázquez recently introduced legislation to reinstate a tax on corporate polluters and urged the federal government to increase funding for Superfund cleanup. “This is an issue of social justice,” said Velázquez. “I’ve got three Superfund sites in my district and we had more than 17,000 cases of pediatric asthma in a single year. New Yorkers deserve a Superfund chief who cares about families and kids, not big polluters and Trump’s corporate pals.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. September 10th, 2018 The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles E. Schumer Majority Leader Minority Leader United States Senate United States Senate Room S-230, The Capitol Room S-221, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Schumer: I write you to express concerns regarding the nomination of Peter C. Wright as assistant administrator for the office of Land and Emergency Management of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which oversees the National Priorities List or “Superfund” program. As the Representative of a district with three Superfund sites, it is of the utmost importance to my constituents that the Administrator of the Superfund program prioritizes cleanup of these areas, rather than reducing polluters’ liability. It is my belief that Mr. Wright is not that candidate and fails to meet this important public interest test. Mr. Wright’s self-professed central qualification for this position is his work in Dow Chemical’s headquarters at the Midland, Michigan cleanup site, where he earned his unofficial title as the “company’s dioxin lawyer” . Mr. Wright was first assigned to the Midland cleanup project in 2003, the year after Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality alerted residents to “the presence of significant concentrations of dioxin” in local soil . Additionally, the EPA said in an August 2007 memo that “Dow has frequently provided information to the public that contradicts agency positions, and generally accepted scientific information.” A Dow newsletter mailed to residents in 2004 stated that there were minimal health effects associated with exposure to dioxin, citing a health study conducted by Dow Chemical that was contested and dismissed by the EPA . In a 2017 email to the EPA’s chief of staff, made public last month through court proceedings, Mr. Wright called it “the most controversial matter and the single most publicly successful matter that I have worked on at Dow” . The “success” Mr. Wright professed was his ability to slow walk the federal government and lower the burden of responsibility that Dow would hold in the cleanup project. Mr. Wright’s tactics even resulted in suspending cleanup negotiations with the EPA in 2008, "EPA does not believe that the deal Dow is offering goes far enough," said Ralph Dollhopf, Associate Director for the Superfund Division of EPA's Regional Office in Chicago. "Key issues that are paramount for protecting human health and the environment remain unresolved. EPA simply will not accept any deal that is not comprehensive" . Regional Administrator Mary A. Gade went further after the negotiations soured, “I am extremely disappointed with this outcome… EPA approached negotiations with high hopes and realistic expectations. Our team put in many long hours of good faith efforts that came to an unfortunate end today. EPA is now reviewing its options for ensuring that dioxin contamination in the river system and the Midland area can be fully addressed" . An eventual agreement was reached between Dow Chemical and the EPA in 2010, but only after two years of blame avoidance, inaction, and unwillingness to remediate this site. Furthermore, Mr. Wright personally sought to contest EPA findings that dioxin was harmful to humans. In 2005, Mr. Wright wrote about dioxin risk in an article published by the American Bar Association, described dioxin as “highly toxic to a variety of animal species but not to humans.” However, the World Health Organization (WHO) completely debunked Mr. Wrights’ assertion at that time; the WHO has previously found that dioxin is a carcinogen and is indeed linked to reproductive and developmental problems while also damaging the immune system . Anyone with a history of employing these deceitful tactics should be precluded from running the oversight and regulatory body of the Superfund program. Of over 1,300 federally designated Superfund sites, there are three in my home of the 7th Congressional District of New York: the Gowanus Canal, Newtown Creek, and the Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. In 2010, I assisted in securing Superfund designation for the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek, and in 2014, for Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. I am deeply concerned that the progress we have made over the last decade will be imperiled should Mr. Wright be confirmed to administer the program. As the Senate moves toward a vote to confirm Mr. Wright, I strongly urge you take into account his career as Dow's lead attorney. New Yorkers and Americans who live near a Superfund site deserve a champion for the public health in this role, not an advocate for corporate interests and a skeptic of environmental science. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
09.07.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in honor of Rosh Hashanah: “As Jewish families throughout New York City and around the world gather in the coming days to usher in the New Year, may they find joy and warmth in the festivities. As New Yorkers, Rosh Hashanah is a time for us all to reflect on the rich history and contributions of Jewish people throughout the five boroughs and our nation. “May this New Year bring renewed beginnings filled with health and happiness. I wish my neighbors and friends, Shana Tova! Happy Rosh Hashanah!” # # #
09.06.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is working to save a federal program that helps finance the completion and preservation of affordable rental housing. Absent action by the Trump Administration, the Federal Financing Bank & Risk-Sharing Program may expire at the end of September. Earlier this week, Velázquez led New York City Democratic Members of Congress in writing to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Dr. Ben Carson, calling on the agency to extend the program, which is a partnership between HUD, the Treasury Department, and state and local Housing Finance Agencies. The public-private initiative has been credited with creating more than 20,000 units of affordable housing representing more than $2.2 billion in loan volume. New York City Housing Development Corporation has used the program for seven transactions totaling $345 million in loans for over 3,000 units of affordable housing. It anticipates a future pipeline of at least twenty-one developments totaling over $488 million in loans and over 7,800 units. “With New York and much of the nation facing a housing crisis, it would be the height of irresponsibility to allow the expiration of a program that has a proven track record of expanding affordable housing stock,” said Velázquez. In addition to Velázquez, the letter was signed by Reps. Meeks (D-NY), Maloney (D-NY), Engel (D-NY), Clarke (D-NY), Espaillat (D-NY), Nadler (D-NY), Crowley (D-NY), Jeffries (D-NY), Serrano (D-NY) and Meng (D-NY). The letter is online here and the full text is below. September 4, 2018 The Honorable Dr. Ben Carson Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: As members of New York City’s Congressional Delegation, we write to you today to urge the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) to extend the Federal Financing Bank & Risk-Sharing Program, a successful partnership between HUD, the U.S. Department of Treasury, and state and local Housing Finance Agencies (“HFAs”) around the country. There is little doubt that New York City—like much of America—is in an affordable housing crisis. And as more and more individuals and families struggle to find safe, quality, housing they can afford, this program continues to efficiently leverage private investment with state and local government resources to help finance thousands of affordable homes in New York City and around the country. Under the program, the Federal Financing Bank (“FFB”), an arm of the Treasury Department, uses its authority to effectively finance mortgages insured by HUD’s Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) at very low interest rates in order to support the construction and preservation of rental housing. This innovative model significantly reduces the interest rate for affordable multifamily apartment buildings compared to the cost of tax-exempt bonds under current market conditions. This partnership model has been an important tool for both the new construction and preservation of affordable housing as it replicates Ginnie Mae financing prices with the streamlined process of FHA/HFA risk-sharing. Low cost capital, distributed through a strong network of state and local HFAs, is an efficient way to finance affordable housing with little risk to the federal government. New York City has always been on the forefront of the nation’s affordable housing fight. In 2014, the New York City Housing Development Corporation worked with HUD and the FFB to create this important federal initiative and was the first HFA to benefit from its important cost savings. Since that time, New York City HDC has used this program for seven transactions totaling $345 million in loans for over 3,000 units of affordable housing and anticipates a future pipeline of at least twenty-one developments totaling over $488 million in loans and over 7,800 units. The program has also been great success nationwide, creating more than 20,000 units of affordable housing since its inception. Unfortunately, however, it is our understanding that HUD is considering letting the FFB Risk-Sharing Program expire at the end of this fiscal year. Were that to happen, New York City HDC and state and local HFAs around the country would lose a powerful tool to finance much needed affordable housing. For example, New York City HDC estimates that they would be forced to finance 1,000 fewer affordable homes, in the next year alone, if HUD were to allow the FFB Risk-Sharing Program to expire. At a time when we are facing an acute affordable housing shortage in every state, HUD and Treasury should extend the program agreement and allow additional loan authority to help finance the pipeline of affordable housing developments in need of this low-cost capital. Thank you for your consideration of this pressing issue. We look forward to continuing to work with you and your team to help ensure New Yorkers, and all Americans, have a safe, decent home they can afford. Sincerely, CC: Pamela Patenaude, Deputy Secretary Brian Montgomery, Assistant Secretary of Housing Len Wolfson, Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations # # #
08.29.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written to U.S. Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos urging the Secretary to immediately reverse a proposal that would make it harder for students defrauded by higher education institutions to seek loan relief. In New York, there are 2,865 outstanding applications for debt relief from students who have been cheated by predatory lenders. “As has been proven, predatory lenders, including many for-profit colleges, scam students into amassing heavy levels of debt, often leaving them without a credible degree to show for it,” said Velázquez. “By issuing this rule to make it harder for defrauded students to secure loan relief, Secretary DeVos’ Education Department is once again working to serve the interests of corporate lenders at the expense of hard working families. I strongly urge the Secretary to reverse course and start working on behalf of young Americans who deserve a path to loan relief.” In 2017, Secretary DeVos delayed the implementation of Obama-era rules designed to improve the debt relief process for defrauded borrowers. Among other changes, DeVos’ proposal unveiled in July cuts nearly $13 billion in student loan relief for students cheated by predatory lenders. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. August 28, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Re: Docket ID ED-2018-OPE-0027 Dear Secretary DeVos: I write in strong opposition to the U.S. Department of Education’s (the Department’s) notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) issued July 31st, 2018 that would reduce loan relief for defrauded students by $12.7 billion over 10 years and make it nearly impossible for students to have their loans discharged. Students who have been misled by their institution of higher education have a legal right to relief from their federal student loans. First enacted in 1993, Congress created this provision to protect students and taxpayers from fraud. Following the 2015 closure of Corinthian Colleges, Inc., the Department initiated negotiating rulemaking and extensive public comment to streamline the loan relief process for the more than 15,000 students left with considerable debt and no degree. Instead of using the 2016 rule to assess the growing backlog of claims, your disregard for the thorough rulemaking process and insistence on delay and reregulation has left students without relief. In fact, there are still 2,865 outstanding applications for relief in my state.[1] The Department’s proposed rule undermines Congressional intent and shortchanges students to benefit corporations with a history of fraud and abuse. Specifically, the proposed rule: Makes it substantially harder for defrauded borrowers to assert a claim. By eliminating the state law standard found in the 1995 regulation and even excluding final judgements made by Federal or state courts against an institution from the list of defenses, the Department seeks to nullify state consumer protection laws and would require a borrower who successfully sues their school for fraud in state court to continue repaying loans used to attend that school while the school continues to reap the benefits of Federal student aid. Additionally, the proposed requirement that borrowers prove intent on the part of a fraudulent institution would make it nearly impossible for a borrower to assert a defense and successfully receive an adjudication by creating an unreasonable obstacle for students. Further, the Department is using the proposed standard for the misrepresentation as an excuse to prohibit automatic discharge. Lastly, the NPRM’s preamble mentions the possibility of using a higher evidentiary standard for some borrowers based on their repayment status. Given the use of “preponderance of the evidence” in the 2016 final rule and the overwhelming use of this standard in civil litigation, I encourage the Department to maintain this standard for all borrowers. Seeks to deter defrauded borrowers from asserting a claim. The Department’s proposal to accept only claims from borrowers who are in post-default collection proceedings would overturn the Department’s longstanding process and incentivize defaults, which have dire consequences for borrowers and additional costs to taxpayers. Additionally, the proposed requirements that borrowers waive their right to privacy and provide personal information, including confirmation of the “borrower’s ability to pass a drug test, satisfy criminal history or driving record requirements, and meet any health qualifications…” treat the borrower like a criminal – not an injured party, are irrelevant to the question of institutional misconduct, and are clearly intended to dissuade borrowers from asserting claims of fraud. Undermines the legal right of students to seek relief through failure to prohibit mandatory arbitration and class action waivers. In recent years, an uptick in restrictive clauses that protect the financial interests of an institution at the expense of a student’s legal right have been found hidden in enrollment contracts, particularly at for-profit institutions.[2] Two such clauses–mandatory arbitration and class action waivers–were specifically banned under the 2016 final rule. While the Department recognizes that these restrictive clauses are not well understood by consumers and prevents the agency from noticing patterns of abuse, the proposed rule refuses to prohibit the use of these clauses. Instead, the Department puts corporations ahead of students. I urge the Department to ensure students retain their legal rights and ban mandatory arbitration and class action waivers. Limits quality completion options for students attending or recently enrolled in closed schools. While expanding the eligibility for students who left a school before closure (from 120 days to 180 days) is a positive step, the proposal would simultaneously limit the availability of discharge by disallowing students who were enrolled at the closed school prior to or during closure from seeking a discharge if the institution offers a teach-out plan. While I agree that more institutions should offer teach-out plans, it is widely known that the quality of teach-out plans vary widely and the process for determining an acceptable teach-out plan lacks rigor and consistency. In fact, your own Department acknowledged this inconsistency and lack of quality in its announcement of intent to enter negotiated rulemaking concerning teach-out plans.[3] Further, for some students, completing their degree through a teach out plan may be undesirable. The 2016 final rule provided students with the option to choose. I recommend retaining the closed school discharge option for students enrolled or previously enrolled at a closed school, regardless if the institution has a teach out plan. Allows even the most financially unstable institutions on the brink of closure to continue benefitting from federal student aid: Recognizing the Department’s fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers, the 2016 final rule listed mandatory and discretionary triggers that could be used as early warnings for potential risk and required institutions to provide financial protection through letters of credit. Compared to the 2016 final rule, the proposed rule makes several of the mandatory triggers discretionary, eliminates several of the original discretionary triggers, and makes the triggers less predictive by narrowing the remaining triggers. These changes would make it easier for institutions to continue operating even when there is high likelihood for closure, shifting the burden of risk to taxpayers and away from low-quality institutions. In sum, the Department’s proposed rule will have significant, negative implications for both defrauded borrowers and taxpayers. I reiterate my strong opposition to the proposed rule. I urge the Department to revise the proposal to address these concerns and move quickly to provide all students the relief to which they are entitled, as intended by Congress. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
08.28.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding media reports that a new analysis commissioned by the governor of Puerto Rico has estimated that 2,975 people died on the Island following Hurricanes Maria and Irma last September: “Once again, we have yet more mounting evidence about the enormity of the tragedy that befell Puerto Rico last year. These numbers are only the latest to underscore that the federal response to the hurricanes was disastrously inadequate and, as a result, thousands of our fellow American citizens lost their lives. Notably, this study also confirms that lower income communities disproportionately suffered the greatest loss of life. “I would also observe that the study indicates there were significant communications breakdowns between the local government agencies responsible for compiling an accurate death toll. This is exactly why I have introduced the COUNT Act, legislation to establish federal standards for death tolls after future disasters, as well as a separate bill to implement a 9/11-style Commission that would examine the response to the disaster and how relief efforts may have been hampered by inaccurate mortality numbers. “If one thing is clear from this latest estimate it is this – our nation failed the people of Puerto Rico and we can never allow such an inexcusable moral lapse to occur again.” ###
08.22.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding Paul Manafort’s conviction and the guilty plea by Michael Cohen. “The conviction of Paul Manafort and guilty plea of Michael Cohen must put to rest any attempts to discredit or impede the work of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and federal prosecutors. “It should now be abundantly clear that President Trump’s claims of ignorance have lost credibility. Not only do these new revelations potentially place the President in legal jeopardy, they underscore the broader toxic culture of corruption that has plagued the Trump Administration from day one. “It is incumbent on all Members of Congress - Republicans and Democrats alike - to put country over party and affirm that no one is above the law.” In December of 2016, in a letter to outgoing Attorney General Lynch, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel.
08.21.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to replace the Obama-era Clean Power Plan. “The Trump Administration’s ‘polluters-first’ proposal to gut the Clean Power Plan is just as reckless as expected. “As our nation is seeing, climate change is fueling a surge in hurricanes, wildfires and flooding, costing lives and billions of dollars in damage. By originally establishing the Clean Power Plan in 2015, President Obama had put America on track to invest in renewable energy and curb carbon emissions. “It is a bitter irony that as the harrowing effects of climate change increasingly prevail, the Trump Administration continues to abandon the progress our nation has made in addressing this crisis. Tragically, the proposal announced today is the latest in a series of actions proving this Administration is more focused on pleasing big oil and coal than protecting America’s children, families and future. “As a nation, we are morally obligated to care for our planet by taking every necessary measure to fight the devastating consequences of climate change.” ###
08.13.2018	Say ICE Detention of Man Acting to Save Family Dog is Unnecessarily Cruel Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has sent a letter urging a federal judge to stay the deportation of Edisson Barros, a Queens man detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) after attempting to save his family’s dog. “Mr. Barros’ case is yet another example of President Trump’s deportation machine unnecessarily and arbitrarily targeting members of our community,” said Velázquez. “Acting as many of us would to protect those we love, Barros’ desperate attempt to save his dog is far from the behavior of a menace to society. I commend Council Members Moya and Menchaca for their efforts in advocating for Barros’ release. I echo their concern and urge the court to reunite Barros with his family, so he can complete his green card application.” After throwing his keys at a car to urge the driver to stop before hitting his dog, Barros was arrested. Shortly after he was released, Barros showed up to court and was detained by ICE agents. He is currently being held at the Hudson County Correctional Facility, which Velázquez notes has been documented to psychologically abuse inmates and fail to provide adequate food and medicine. “Deporting Edisson Barros will not Make America Great Again. It will succeed only in devastating a family,” Council Member Moya said. “There is no honor in visiting this hell on Edisson and his family, and doing so is not a defense of America or liberty. In the interest of justice, we are calling on Judge Mirlande Tadal to stay his deportation, at least until she can review his case and make an informed decision.” “What is happening to the Barros family is not unique, and underscores how family separation continues unabated because ICE has free reign to act with impunity,” said City Council Member Carlos Menchaca, Chair of the Committee on Immigration. “Edisson Barros is his family’s sole breadwinner. His children – who are all U.S. born citizens - depend on him totally for financial and emotional support. It’s ridiculous that we have to keep reminding our justice system that separating individuals like Edisson Barros from their families is unnecessary, cruel and useless, especially when they have green card petitions pending. Moreover, every day we are learning about the inhumane treatment of detained individuals in ICE’s facilities. That’s why it’s important that we continue to rally in support of our immigrant brothers and sisters like Edisson. We will never stop until Trump’s Orwellian deportation machine and ICE are abolished.” The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. For a PDF, click here. August 13, 2018 Judge Mirlande Tadal 625 Evans Street, Room 148A Elizabeth, NJ 07201 Tel: 908-787-1355 Re: BARROS, Edisson Hon. Judge Tadal: As Mr. Edisson Barros’ representative in the U.S. Congress, I strongly urge you to grant his stay of deportation and reunite him with his family. As you are aware, Mr. Barros was arrested in May for throwing his keys at a car to protect his dog. That is not the behavior of a menace to society, but a desperate action any of us would take under duress to protect those we love. In this regard, he cooperated with law enforcement during his arrest, was released, and dutifully reported to his court hearing on July 16, 2018. It was on that fateful day that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) waited outside the courtroom and detained him. As we have seen in so many cases, separating this family has had dire consequences. Mr. Barros is his family’s sole breadwinner. As such, his detention has forced his U.S. born daughter to abandon a promising academic career to return home and support her family in his absence. With a green card application pending, Mr. Barros is also unable to pursue this pathway to citizenship freely, and instead must contend with deportation despite having obeyed and cooperated with the law. Moreover, Mr. Barros is being held at the Hudson County Correctional Facility, which recent reports demonstrate conclusively is an inhumane environment. Detainees are failing to receive necessary medical treatment; are being given food that is often raw, spoiled, or rotten; and are being subjected to verbal and psychological abuse that only magnifies the terror of their detention. Mr. Barros has reported witnessing such abuses and not receiving adequate medical care. This is totally unacceptable, and on its own should merit his release. Ultimately, Mr. Barros is a cooperative and productive member of my district. He has helped to raise truly remarkable daughters and has never confronted the criminal justice system before this year. If Mr. Barros is deported, it will not only disrupt this family, but force more immigrants in my district into the shadows and deter them from seeking the pathways to citizenship open to them, as Mr. Barros is doing. I ask you to be mindful of this context as you consider the facts of this case, which I believe merit a stay on his deportation and his release so that he can be reunited with his family to pursue his green card application to its completion. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
08.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced that multiple local early education centers within New York’s 7th Congressional district have received federal grants to bolster their Head Start and Early Head Start programs. Both programs are federally funded and provide early childhood education and support services to low-incomes families. “For decades, Head Start has provided a pathway for kids and their families to receive the high-quality learning opportunities that they deserve,” said Velázquez. “The program is based on the core value that every child deserves a fair shot in life. I am proud to see a wide range of local centers receive federal funding to continue the important work of educating our youngest New Yorkers.” • Located on the Lower East Side, Grand Street Settlement has provided over 60 years of early care and education for local families. By providing support services in English, Spanish and Chinese, the staff at Grand Street Settlement serve children and their families. HHS has awarded Grand Street Settlement with a pair of grants, one for $1,850,247 and one for $1,036,195 in federal funds to continue their Early Head Start program. • An additional grant has been awarded to United Academy in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The Academy will receive $2,243,060 in federal funds from HHS. The funding will ensure the organization can continue making important health and educational programs available to Williamsburg’s children. • Also located in Williamsburg, Yeshiva Kehilath Yakove is a Jewish learning center and will be receiving $1,082,876 to continue to grow their Head Start program. • Cypress Hills Child Care Corporation (CHCCC) has been awarded $1,121,065 in federal funding to bolster their head start program. CHCCC is located in northeast Brooklyn and has provided affordable childcare to low-income families since 1990. • The Catholic Charities Neighborhood Service has been awarded $1,029,097 in federal funding to support their Early Head Start program in Brooklyn Heights. For over a century, Catholic Charities have provided social services to neighborhood families. ###
08.10.2018	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after a federal appeals court ordered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to bar the use of Chlorpyrifos: “I am pleased the Court recognized that EPA has ignored scientific evidence about the dangers Chlorpyrifos presents to farmworkers, children and the overall public health. This ruling is especially necessary as President Trump’s EPA chose to pander to corporate chemical companies by failing to enact an Obama-era ban on Chlorpyrifos. “While this ruling is an important step, it is unclear what will happen next and whether EPA may appeal. To that end, I urge Congress to pass my bill, which would codify a ban on Chlorpyrifos into statute.” The court’s ruling comes after then-EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt refused to implement a ban on the pesticide in 2017. Velázquez previously introduced legislation, The Pesticide Protection Act of 2017, to prohibit the use and sale of Chlorpyrifos. ###
08.09.2018	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news reports that the Puerto Rican government has acknowledged a hurricane death toll of 1,427: “It has been tragically clear for some time that the devastation from Irma and Maria was many magnitudes worse than the official death toll suggested. There’s good reason to believe that the actual loss of life may be even higher than this estimate. This news is simply the latest evidence underscoring how inadequate the federal response was to a humanitarian crisis affecting our fellow citizens. “This is exactly why I am pushing legislation, the COUNT Act, to establish federal standards for death counts after disasters, a bill to create a ‘9-11 style’ commission to examine the federal response and have also requested a GAO analysis. While we may never truly know how many lives were lost, I can only hope these latest numbers create momentum for my legislation and, more broadly, for Congress to provide adequate resources for Puerto Rico to fully recover and for both the national and local governments to be better prepared in the future.” ###
08.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has led 31 Members of Congress in a letter to the Department of Homeland Security asking why the agency terminated Temporary Protected Status for Nepal and Honduras in despite of ongoing safety threats plaguing the nations. “TPS is a practical and effective tool for American foreign policy and allows the United States to respond quickly and appropriately in cases where safe haven is warranted,” wrote the lawmakers. “Safe haven status is not refugee status and, under current law, leads to no legal status. Despite the basis providing safe haven status exercised by both Republican and Democratic administrations, the actions taken by your agency continue to draw concerns over the interpretation of its statutory requirements under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).” Under President Trump, DHS has terminated TPS status for 98 percent of all current recipients. In May of 2018, DHS terminated TPS status for Nepal, despite ongoing damage from a 7.8 earthquake in 2015 that killed 9,000 people and destroyed over 755,000 homes. In the case of Honduras, President Trump’s DHS terminated TPS in June of 2018, despite a 2016 report noting that the country was facing a housing deficit of 1.1 million homes and was plagued by public health outbreaks of Dengue Fever and Chikungunya. The letter has been endorsed by 37 organizations. "As the newest country that was granted TPS in 2015, Nepal is far from fully recovering from the devastating earthquakes that impacted the country. Among the 98% of countries that have had TPS eliminated, Nepal is also the only country that received just a 12 month grace period as opposed to 18 months. The almost 9,000 Nepalis in the United States with TPS, contribute to this country's economy working in industries like restaurants or technology, and continue to support the rebuilding of Nepal back home as families are still living in temporary homes, government and national infrastructure is still being rebuilt. The elimination of TPS was a crushing blow to these hardworking individuals, and we request USCIS Director Cissna to consider exercising their power to provide safe haven given the proven country conditions in Nepal."- Pabitra Benjamin, Executive Director, Adhikaar The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. August 6, 2018 The Honorable L. Francis Cissna Director United States Citizenship and Immigration Services Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Director Cissna: As Members of Congress, we write to express our concerns regarding the most recent decisions on Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Honduran and Nepali immigrants. Over the course of the past few months, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has terminated the status of 98% of all current TPS program participants. As Members expressed in a previous letter to Secretary Nielsen on a letter dated April 17, 2018, TPS is a practical and effective tool for American foreign policy and allows the United States to respond quickly and appropriately in cases where safe haven is warranted. Safe haven status is not refugee status and, under current law, leads to no legal status. Despite the basis providing safe haven status exercised by both Republican and Democratic administrations, the actions taken by your agency continue to draw concerns over the interpretation of its statutory requirements under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). As you know, section 244 provides your agency with the ability to provide safe haven protections in specific circumstances. Specifically (1) during ongoing armed conflict; (2) during disruptive disasters that significantly impact living conditions; or (3) to address conditions that are extraordinary and temporary. Both the countries of Honduras and Nepal have experienced significant conditions that impact living conditions based on their previous designation, and compromise an immigrant’s ability to return “in safety.”[1] While both countries were originally designated under 244(b)(1)(B),[2] the subsequent challenges to reconstruction and rehabilitation of infrastructure and state functions continue to impact these countries. It is likely that current conditions will be temporary in nature, given your agency’s assessment of revocation of previous TPS. Given these circumstances, we ask that you provide answers to the following questions in the cases of Honduras and Nepal. In the case of Nepal: On June 24th, 2015, the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) designated Nepal for Temporary Protected Status after a 7.8 earthquake and its subsequent aftershocks affected approximately 8 million people.[3] As a result of the natural disaster, 9,000 persons lost their lives and over 755,000 homes were damaged or destroyed.[4] The Government of Nepal committed to using a portion of the $4.1 billion in aid provided by international donors to subsidize the rebuilding of over 770,000 homes. Only a small fraction of these funds began being disbursed one year after the earthquake.[5] In October 2016, DHS published: “TPS for Nepal Extension of the Designation of Nepal for Temporary Protected Status,” (“2016 Notice”). On May 22nd, 2018, DHS announced through the Federal Register the rescission of the designation of Nepal for TPS, “Termination of Nepal for Temporary Protected Status” (“Termination Notice”). In the Termination Notice, your agency notes that the country has made “considerable progress in post-earthquake recovery and reconstruction” to justify this assessment. Your agency later finds that “…reconstruction of thousands of homes has been completed or is underway,” and that “slightly more than one in seven homes destroyed have been fully rebuilt and more than half of homes under construction.” Additionally, in terms of access to clean water and public services, your agency specifically notes that “only 11 percent of schools and less than 9 percent of health facilities remain impacted by earthquake damage. Access to clean water has generally returned to pre-earthquake levels, and there has been a gradual improvement in food security in areas most affected by the earthquake.” Furthermore, the Termination Notice indicates that: “thousands of Nepalis return annually after working abroad and that the government has been able to take the return of its citizens” and makes a note about an increase in tourism-related activities.[6] While the above assessments provide a very general review of ideas concerning current country conditions, we are deeply concerned with its relative lack of breadth and depth when compared with previous notices in the Federal Register. We are also concerned over the use of vague terminologies and unclear justifications published in the Termination Notice. Notwithstanding your agency’s assessment, we would like your agency to provide answers to the following questions: 1. Despite your agency noting that many projects are underway, the statistic included in the Termination Notice notes that “slightly more than one in seven homes destroyed having been fully rebuilt and more than half of homes under construction.” In general, this statement provides very little indication of the overall ability of Nepal to recover from the earthquake. To assess your agency’s analysis, the 2016 Notice finds that 755,000 homes were damaged or destroyed.[7] If we break down the fraction provided by your agency in its most recent Termination Notice, (1/7), in percentage terms, this suggests that 14.3% of total damaged homes have been completely reconstructed. If we take this percentage and convert it to its nominal form from the total number, that figure is: 107,965. a. Your agency notes that more than half of destroyed homes are under construction. In the absence of an actual quantity expressed in specific numeric or percentage terms, we will assume 50% for the term “more than half”. Taking the figure from the 2016 Extension Notice, half of the 755,000 damaged or destroyed homes (excluding homes already constructed as per the Termination Notice), suggests that at least 323,518 homes are currently under construction. The 2018 Termination Notice fails to explain the current state of projects that are under construction. Can you provide, in collaboration with appropriate agencies, appropriate benchmarks to determine the state of construction projects that are in progress? i. As part of your answer to this question, please provide a description of such benchmarks and the criteria established to quantify the state of completion of such homes. b. What was the basis for your agency’s assertion that “reconstruction of thousands of homes has been completed or is underway”? How would your agency account for the fact that The Asia Foundation reported that 62% of people who lost their homes in the earthquake are still living in temporary shelters?[8] 2. The assessment provided by your agency in 2016 notes that 18,200 persons were displaced in camps, representing 15% of those who were displaced after the earthquake.[9] The 2018 Termination Notice omits this population. How many persons are still living in such camps? 3. The 2016 Notice indicates that the five-year period following 2016 would be host to an $8.3 billion reconstruction plan from Nepal’s Reconstruction Authority.[10] This project would rebuild hospitals, roads and schools. The Termination Notice provided this year does not provide specific details about the current state of construction. In fact, your notice limits its assessment to: “Schools and hospitals are functioning, and roads are being rebuilt.” a. Out of the outlined $8.3 billion project, how much, to your agency’s knowledge, has been allocated to the following three specific projects: hospitals, schools and roads? b. Based on your agency’s knowledge or via interagency communications, how does the Government of Nepal prioritize these projects? c. The 2018 Termination Notice indicates that “only 11 percent of schools and less than 9 percent of health facilities remain impacted by earthquake damage.”[11] This indication seems at odds with the 2016’s Notice that indicated that Nepal’s Prime Minister estimated that reconstruction of schools would take three years. Can you describe, in detail, why such discrepancy exists between the two Federal Register notices? 4. The Termination Notice uses the following metric for examining public service capabilities: “for the most part, schools and health facilities have resumed operating at levels consistent with the state of public services in other areas of Nepal.” Such metric provides little detail about the country’s ability to attend to its nationals—but furthermore—in the absence of an alternative metric, does not necessarily justify termination of status. Can you describe, in detail, the baseline benchmarks and appropriate methodologies that were used by your agency to arrive to this assessment? a. The Termination Notice also remarks that “all national-level and most subnational level infrastructure… has been retrofitted or rebuilt”.[12] However, how does your agency account for a World Bank report from 2017 that discovered that reconstruction of these sites, including schools, hospitals, and public buildings, have “barely started”?[13] b. The Termination Notice also claimed that “access to clean water and sanitation has significantly increased” and that “schools and hospitals are functioning, and roads are being rebuilt”.[14] Could you elaborate on the number of citizens who now have access to these facilities; or the percentage of schools, hospitals, or roads that were destroyed in the earthquake but are now functional? 5. In the 2018 Termination Notice, the agency finds that “Nepal is welcoming tourists…at higher rates than before the earthquake”.[15] First, this reasoning was never a part of any of the justifications in original designation nor the extension. Its inclusion is, for lack of better words, confusing. We are unsure why tourism is being used to justify an ability for Nepali nationals to return and live in Nepal. The ability for tourists to access the resources they need is not the same as those who have lived in the country since the earthquake, nor does it show the ability of the country to provide adequate housing, jobs or support to those forced to return to Nepal. What exactly, in your agency’s view, is the connection between Nepal’s ability to accommodate tourists who have the economic resources to “tour” Nepal and its ability to accommodate for those currently holding TPS in the United States? Furthermore, Nepalis who return from seasonal work in other countries often have to leave the country to earn enough income to survive in Nepal, as there are very few job opportunities in the country to help support rebuilding efforts. Does your agency know if Nepal is able to simultaneously accommodate both seasonal and permanent residents? 6. The 2016 Notice stated that large-scale reconstruction will not begin until 2017, and would take 2 years to complete the reconstruction of private homes. Does your agency know the current status of those reconstruction projects? What is the status of the pledged $4.1 billion dollars in aid and how much of it has been distributed for the rebuilding of homes?[16] 7. Your agency took 26 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is an extremely long time for a decision to be published and is, arguably, contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? 8. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Nepal warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of Honduras: Honduras was first designated for TPS in 1999 because of the severe damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in 1999. On December 15, 2017 Honduras was granted a six-month extension of its TPS status because your agency was unable to arrive at a conclusion for TPS.[17] Following this extension, your agency terminated Honduras’ TPS status on June 5, 2018, stating “recovery and reconstruction efforts relating to Hurricane Mitch have largely been completed.”[18] This assessment is very vague and seems unlikely as the 2016 extension notice indicated that “Honduras still has a housing deficit of 1.1 million homes.”[19] Additionally the 2016 extension notes several health concerns, including Dengue Fever and Chikungunya. Your agency’s 2018 termination status provides no indication of the current risk of infectious diseases nor any specific indication of improvement to health care centers. 1. Your agency reported in the Federal Register on June 5, 2018: “While some housing issues remain, recent construction figures show sustained growth in 2017, with residential projects growing by 10% with respect to 2016 and commercial projects growing by 18% over the same period.”[20] These statistics give no information about what the current housing deficit is. As mentioned above, in 2016 the deficit was 1.1 million. Please provide details on the current number of Hondurans in need of housing and how the return of the nearly 57,000 Hondurans residing in the United States will affect the deficit. 2. Regarding your agency’s assessment that “recovery and reconstruction efforts relating to Hurricane Mitch have largely been completed,” please provide specific numbers for the improvements of roads, health centers, and schools and how many of each remain in disrepair. 3. Honduras currently has a crisis of gang violence and a homicide rate of 42.8 per 100,000.[21] The Department of State’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security (OSAC) has assessed the country “as being a critical-threat location for crime directed at or affecting official U.S. government interests.”[22] Can your agency ensure Hondurans are not forcibly returned to life-threatening, unsafe conditions? 4. Your agency took 29 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is an extremely long time for a decision to be published and is, arguably, contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? 5. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Honduras warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? Based on the current statutory requirements and current realities in each of these countries, it can be argued that such circumstances can be considered “extraordinary and temporary” conditions under section 244(b)(1)(C). Forcing the return of Honduran and Nepali immigrants to these conditions may impact their ability to return to their state “in safety” as noted under subparagraph (C). In fact, the deportation of such nationals may cause further disruption of the temporary conditions. We urge your agency to consider exercising your power provided under statute to designate such conditions under subparagraph (C). No immigrant under TPS poses a threat to our national interests; nor does their presence in the United States. Should your agency decide to not exercise such authority, please provide an analysis justifying this decision. As part of your analysis, we also ask that you include your agency’s definition of what it means for an immigrant to “return to their state in safety” despite the conditions that exist in these countries. Given our concerns, we request a response to these questions no later than 60 calendar days from the date of this letter. Your agency’s response will facilitate Congress’ assessment of the metrics and methodologies used to justify the conclusions furnished by your agency. Sincerely, Members of Congress ###
08.07.2018	Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), and Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC) sent a letter to the head of the United States Patent and Trademark Office requesting the office collect and report on the demographic information of patent applicants. This effort, they argued, would be an instrumental step towards reversing decades of underrepresentation for women, minority and low-income patent applicants. “Securing a patent can be game changing for an entrepreneur, unlocking doors to success, fueling innovation, creating new businesses and spurring job growth.” said Velázquez. “Sadly, for too long, success in securing a patent has largely eluded minorities and women, shutting out key contributors in our small business economy. I’m asking the USPTO to collect demographic information on patent holders, so Congress can use this data to tackle disparities in access.” “It’s critical that all Americans have access to the tools that allow them to compete in this 21st century global economy,” said Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler. “Patents foster innovation and serve as one of the key drivers of our economy. Unfortunately, far too many minorities, women and low-income individuals are left out of the process. Collecting demographic data on U.S. patent holders is needed in order to understand the depth of this issue and to ultimately ensure equal representation in the patent system.” “As the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business, I have worked diligently with my fellow Committee Members to elevate the dialogue on patents for minorities and women,” said Congresswoman Adams. “As the world’s leader for innovation and entrepreneurship, the United States fails in the patenting of ideas from diverse communities. Currently, women, people of color, low-income communities, and veterans hold significantly fewer patents than other demographics. I introduced the SUCCESS Act to promote policies that increase opportunity for these underrepresented groups to successfully qualify for patents through the Small Business Administration. I encourage Director Iancu along with Small Business Administrator McMahon to provide the requested reports on patent diversity, and engage with Congress to develop new policies that diversify the innovation economy.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. August 6, 2018 Andrei Iancu Director United States Patent and Trademark Office 600 Dulany Street Alexandria, VA 22314 Dear Mr. Iancu: Women, racial minorities, and low-income individuals are significantly underrepresented in the innovation ecosystem. The Institute for Women’s Policy Research reported that in 2016, less than 20 percent of U.S. patents listed one or more women as inventors, and under 8 percent listed a woman as the primary inventor.[1] In 2017, the Equality of Opportunity Project found that white children are three times more likely to become inventors than black children, and that children from wealthy families are ten times more likely to have filed for a patent than children from families below the median income.[2] Moreover, evidence strongly suggests that the inclusion of women, minorities, and other underserved communities is beneficial not just for inventors, but for the business sector as well, and that technology patented by teams including women fare better over time. Information technology patents with mixed-gender teams are cited most often in subsequent patent applications, suggesting that greater diversity may lead to the development of patents that are more useful and successful, which in turn leads to further growth and job creation. One study estimates that GDP per capita could rise up to 4.6 percent with the inclusion of more women and African Americans in the initial stages of the process of innovation.[3] This data simply cannot be ignored any longer. As legislators evaluate proposals to promote diversity within the innovation community, data such as that set forth above will be essential. In order to truly address the needs of many firms holding intellectual property rights, or who have the potential to do so, Congress must eliminate the gender, racial, and wealth gaps to allow for additional small business growth. But first, Congress needs the important demographic data and report on patent applicants. Without it, thoughtful policy to close the intellectual property gap for women, minorities, and other underserved inventors will continue to elude us. We understand the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has made efforts in the past to study the demographics of America’s inventors. In compliance with Section 29 of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, the Director of the USPTO was required to “establish methods for studying the diversity of patent applicants, including those applicants who are minorities, women, or veterans.”[4] The USPTO worked with others in the Executive Branch to better analyze its existing data and, in parallel, reviewed efforts to study demographic, economic and other forms of diversity, with most coming from academic institutions. Unfortunately, this data is not enough to understand the needs of underserved inventors. For these reasons, we are writing to urge the USPTO to work on an internal basis and with other federal agencies to voluntarily collect and report on an annual basis the demographic information of patent applicants, including gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, age, and income level. Without this data, Congress lacks the information needed to fully understand the demographic nature of the patent applicant pool. As a result, Congress cannot sufficiently craft legislation to address such disparities. Doing so would help ensure that the United States’ patent system is more inclusive and reflective of our Nation’s rich diversity. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Member of Congress Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Alma S. Adams Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
08.02.2018	Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced H.R. 6631, the Ban Nerve Agents in Our Food Act of 2018, a bill to end the use of organophosphate pesticides in the United States. Organophosphates have been linked to neurological damage, respiratory illnesses such as asthma and other chronic and debilitating diseases. “Families need to be assured that when their children are eating food grown in our fields, they are safe for consumption and not tainted with dangerous chemicals that harm kids,” said Velázquez “I believe Congress must act, and that is why I’ve introduced legislation to ban organophosphate pesticides once-and-for-all.” In 2017, then-EPA administrator Scott Pruitt reversed an Obama-era ban on Chlorpyrifos, a toxic pesticide of the organophosphate family. Shortly thereafter, Velázquez introduced legislation to reinstate a ban on Chlorpyrifos. Her bill unveiled today, the Ban Nerve Agents in Our Food Act of 2018 goes further banning 23 organophosphate pesticides. “Organophosphates were first developed as weapons of war and our government ought to put an end to their use, not continue to fuel a deadly industry,” Velázquez added. “From fields across the nation to our plates, organophosphate pesticides threaten the healthy development of our children, the health and safety of farmworker families and rural communities and expose consumers to residues of nerve agents in our food and drinking water. The public and the most exposed and vulnerable among us deserve urgent action and we applaud Rep. Velázquez for her leadership in introducing this bill,” said Andrea Delgado, legislative director of the Healthy Communities program at Earthjustice. “Every year, farmworkers and their children are injured from exposure to organophosphates,” said Virginia Ruiz, Director of Occupational and Environmental Health at Farmworker Justice. “We applaud Rep. Velázquez for working to prevent this needless suffering.” “The National Farm Worker Ministry, a faith-based organization committed to justice for farm workers, is morally outraged that anyone would not put the safety of human beings before profit,” said Julie Taylor, Executive Director of the National Farm Worker Ministry. “That a government of, by and for the people would allow one of it's agencies to fail to regulate chemicals in pesticides that harm the nervous system is inconscienable. We fully support the legislation, Ban Nerve Agents in Our Food Act of 2018, and call on our elected representatives to vote to pass it.” “It is long past time to ban the use of organophosphate nerve gas type pesticides, stop caving-in to corporate interests, and focus on the wellbeing of workers and their children who live in areas surrounded by pesticides.” – Erik Nicholson, National Vice President of United Farm Workers. “We commend Rep. Velazquez for working to ban all organophosphate nerve poison pesticides,” said Tiffany Finck-Haynes, Senior Food Futures Campaigner, Food and Technology Program at Friends of the Earth U.S. “Toxic pesticides don’t belong in our environment or on our plates. We urge all members of Congress to support this bill to protect people and the planet.” “A ban on these dangerous pesticides is long overdue,” said Erik Olson, senior director of food and health at the Natural Resources Defenses Council. “Parents should be able to feed their kids fruits and veggies without fear they’re contaminated by toxic chemicals. Farmworkers and their families shouldn’t have to worry the air they breathe is poisonous. People’s health must come before the interests of powerful polluters.” “Farmworkers, including children as young as 12 years old, are the forgotten heroes that bring food to our tables every day. We’re delighted that Rep. Velazquez has introduced critical legislation to protect these hard-working men, women, and children from highly toxic pesticides that threatens their health and safety,” said Reid Maki, the director of child labor advocacy at the National Consumers League and the coordinator of the Child Labor Coalition. “Women farmworkers should not have to risk the health and development of their children due to being exposed to nerve agent pesticides in their work places. And, children of farmworkers should not have to live with learning disabilities, behavioral issues, ADHD and even autism because hard-working parents are subjected to these toxic chemicals while harvesting the food that feeds America. These pesticides must be banned now.”—Jeannie Economos, Pesticide Safety and Environmental Health Project Coordinator, Farmworker Association of Florida. ###
08.01.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in response to the Governor of Puerto Rico’s Executive Order raising the minimum wage for public construction workers to $15 per hour: “This order means hardworking men and women in Puerto Rico who work in construction will be able to provide for their families. As the Island continues to recover and rebuild, this will also help stimulate the local economy and encourage more Puerto Ricans to remain on the Island or return from the mainland. I thank the Laborers’ International Union of North America for all their hard work on this issue and salute all those who endeavored to affect this positive change.” ###
07.31.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), has sent a letter to the Interim Chair of the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) demanding answers after recent news reports shed light on the agency’s failure to adhere to federal regulations. “It’s profoundly disturbing to learn that, in addition to the already well documented failings in areas like lead paint remediation, NYCHA has other systemic problems that likely mean it’s not complying with federal law,” said Velázquez. “New Yorkers deserve a full accounting of the facts, which is why I’m asking the agency for specifics on what’s gone wrong, what’s being done to fix it and when we can expect improvements.” The nation’s largest public housing authority, NYCHA provides units for over 400,000 New Yorkers in 326 housing developments. Velázquez is the third most senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and the highest ranking New Yorker on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, which oversees all matters pertaining to public housing, including NYCHA. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. July 30, 2018 Stanley Brezenoff Interim Chair and Chief Executive Officer New York City Housing Authority 250 Broadway New York, NY 10007 Dear Interim Chair Brezenoff: I’m writing to you this afternoon because I’m, once again, deeply concerned with the New York City Housing Authority’s (“NYCHA”) ongoing operations and maintenance challenges that were recently described in local media reports. Last week, the New York Times[1] and New York Post[2] published stories indicating that NYCHA’s operational problems extend far beyond its failures to inspect and remediate for hazardous lead levels. While NYCHA’s failure to inspect and remediate for hazardous lead levels constitutes significant cause for concern in its own right, these new reports suggest NYCHA has not met federal requirements in many other areas including staff training, tenant protections and emergency management plans. These reports were later confirmed by documents obtained by my staff, which includes your letter dated July 25, 2018, to Mr. Luigi D’Ancona, Director of the New York Office of Public Housing for the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. In your letter to Mr. D’Ancona, you outline several different areas of federal regulation that NYCHA is currently examining and reviewing for noncompliance, including but not limited to: “Administrative: overtime requirements, staffing and scope of work of the Department of Equal Opportunity, procurement bid thresholds, emergency management plans and tracking, and required staff trainings. Programmatic: Providing oversight of tenant protections, Section 3 requirements. Consent decrees: Requirements identified in proposed consent decrees, such as with mold and lead.” I find it troubling that I learned about these latest issues through media reports rather than being told by NYCHA directly. As a senior member of the House of Representatives’ Financial Services Committee, and as the highest ranking New Yorker on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, which oversees all matters pertaining to public housing, including NYCHA, my staff and I have long endeavored to maintain an open dialogue with NYCHA. Like other Members of the New York City delegation, I expect forthright transparency from this agency whose operations have a direct effect on the quality of life for thousands of my constituents. Unfortunately, in recent years, NYCHA has exhibited a pattern of obfuscation and has been less than forthcoming with Members of New York City’s Congressional Delegation. When elected officials are left uniformed about the full extent of NYCHA’s challenges—particularly those challenges related to the health, safety, and rights of NYCHA’s residents – our shared goal of protecting residents’ safety is unnecessarily impeded. Because the information obtained by my staff leaves several questions unanswered, I am respectfully requesting the following pieces of information to clarify your statements in your letter of July 25th to Director D’Ancona: In your letter you state: “[u]nder new leadership, and as contemplated by the proposed consent degree in United States v. New York City Housing Authority, NYCHA will review its operations regularly in order to assess potential compliance gaps.” How often does NYCHA review its operations in order assess its potential compliance gaps? In your response, please provide a detailed explanation of the policies and procedures NYCHA uses to conduct these regular compliance reviews. Your correspondence further states: “[b]ased on work conducted thus far, NYCHA believes it may not be in compliance with a number of federal regulations.” Please be more specific and provide direct citations to the federal regulations and/or statutes in which NYCHA believes itself to be in violation. When answering this question please provide a detailed explanation as to why NYCHA believes itself to be in violation of these regulations and/or statutes. The letter continues: “NYCHA’s recently established Compliance Department will develop an approach to address areas of noncompliance as appropriate.” Please provide a detailed explanation and understanding of this “approach”. In your explanation please elaborate on whether this strategy has been fully developed and implemented or, in the alternative, when NYCHA expects it to be established and executed. Should it be the case that this “approach” is not currently fully developed or implemented, what steps is NYCHA’s Compliance Department currently taking to address its areas of noncompliance. Lastly, the letter says: “NYCHA expects additional areas will be added to the list [of potential violations] as the reviews continue.” Please provide a more comprehensive explanation of the areas NYCHA might expect itself to be in violation, including all federal statutes and regulations. As requested above, in your explanation please provide a detailed description of why NYCHA might believe itself to be in violation of these federal statutes and regulations and what NYCHA is currently doing to remedy the situation. Given these latest developments and the gravity of the situation, I respectfully request your response in the next thirty (30) days. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely Yours, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ### [1] Goodman, J. David. “Housing Authority Admits Failures Go Well Beyond Lead Testing.” The New York Times. July 25, 2018. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/25/nyregion/nycha-lead-noncompliance-hud.html. [2] Hicks, Nolan. “NYCHA Admits It Hasn’t Followed Federal Regulations.” The New York Post. July 25, 2018. https://nypost.com/2018/07/25/nycha-admits-it-hasnt-followed-federal-regulations/.
07.27.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has led 44 Members of Congress in a letter to federal immigration authorities arguing that immigrants fleeing violence and disaster in Guatemala and Nicaragua should receive Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Citing the displacement of residents due to the recent volcanic eruption in Guatemala and ongoing violence in Nicaragua, Velázquez is asking the Department of Homeland Security to exercise its powers and provide TPS for 18 months to eligible Guatemalans and for 12 months for eligible Nicaraguans. “Since President Trump has been in office, he has heartlessly rescinded TPS for hundreds of thousands of recipients, putting their livelihoods in peril and fueling his Administration’s deportation machine,” said Velázquez. “Tragically, Trump’s DHS has consistently ignored the reality that residents of countries such as Guatemala and Nicaragua are suffering and deserve our help.” In November of 2017, President Trump’s DHS announced its decision to end TPS protections for approximately 2,000 Nicaraguans living in the United States. In the letter, Velázquez illustrates that since that decision, Nicaragua has experienced significant political turmoil that has resulted in mass protests, compromising the safety and security of its people. Guatemala has formally asked DHS for TPS protections following the Volcan de Fuego eruption, but DHS has yet to respond to the request. Velázquez’s letter has been endorsed by 21 immigrant-rights and legal organizations. “CWS welcomes the leadership of the 44 Members of Congress in urging the administration to protect vulnerable Nicaraguan and Guatemalan families through Temporary Protected Status,” said The Rev. John L. McCullough, President & CEO of Church World Service. “Deporting families back into danger is immoral, and an affront to our nation’s long tradition of offering safe-haven to the vulnerable. We urge the administration recognize the legitimate peril facing Nicaraguan and Guatemalan families by designating these countries for TPS.” Héctor Figueroa, President of 32BJ SEIU said: “Despite recent decisions by the White House to end Temporary Protected Status for the majority of people currently holding it, TPS remains a valuable humanitarian policy, which this administration should continue to use for countries under extraordinary stresses due to civil conflict, natural disasters or other extraordinary circumstances. The estimated 1.7 million lives affected by the eruption of the Fuego volcano in Guatemala, as well as the civil unrest in Nicaragua clearly fit under the criteria for granting TPS. This is why we support the members of Congress in their call for the Administration to do the right thing and give TPS designation to these countries right now, and thank Rep. Nydia Velázquez for her steadfast leadership on this issue.” “Today we ask the Administration to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Guatemalans and Nicaraguans due to extenuating circumstances in each country. This is a wonderful humanitarian program that has saved the lives of so many. Guatemalans and Nicaraguans currently protected by TPS are law abiding and contributing members of our communities who live, work and pay taxes for the privilege to live legally and safely in the United States,” said Eskinder Negash, President/Chief Executive Officer for U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants (USCRI). Javier H. Valdés, Co-Executive Director of Make the Road New York, said, “Current conditions in Guatemala and Nicaragua clearly warrant TPS designation. This should be a no-brainer for the administration, and we applaud Reps. Velazquez, Gutierrez, and their colleagues in the House for advancing this urgently-needed measure.” "Volcán de Fuego turned Guatemalan towns into cemeteries and political violence has Nicaraguan communities trembling with fear. We call on Congress to remember our country's true values and designate Guatemala and Nicaragua for TPS. America can be great again by lending a hand to those in need," said Steven Choi, Executive Director for The New York Immigration Coalition. "As a network of Latin American immigrant organizations in the United States, very familiar with the current reality in Guatemala and Nicaragua, we are fully supportive of a TPS designation for nationals of these two countries currently residing in the United States. The current situation of danger and uncertainty in both countries would be alleviated if their respective nationals in the US were to be protected from deportation. TPS protection was designed to be used in circumstances such as this one," said Oscar Chacón, Executive Director, Alianza Americas. For a PDF of the letter, click here. ###
07.26.2018	Measures Included in Larger Defense Package Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved two pieces of legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). One of Velázquez’s provisions will assist small businesses in Puerto Rico by incentivizing federal agencies to award them contracts, fueling job growth on the hurricane ravaged and economically beleaguered Island. A second measure would help businesses in New York and around the nation that are transitioning to employee ownership, creating greater financial and economic empowerment for workers. “These are commonsense proposals that, I’m proud to say, passed with widespread bipartisan support,” Velázquez noted. “By funneling federal contracting dollars to Puerto Rico we can help local businesses there grow, exactly when the Island most needs help. By creating greater opportunities in New York and around the country for working families to own a stake in their workplace, we can reduce income inequality and help more hardworking men and women achieve financial security. I look forward to seeing these provisions pass the Senate and become law in the next few weeks.” Creating Economic Opportunity in Puerto Rico Velázquez successfully included in the NDAA, her legislation that would allow federal agencies to count double toward their statutory small business contracting goals, procurement dollars awarded to firms in Puerto Rico. The Congresswoman said the measure will incentivize federal agencies to employ Puerto Rican businesses, helping create local jobs. “Ten months have passed since Hurricane Maria ravished Puerto Rico’s infrastructure, devastated the electrical grid and crippled the already languishing economy,” said Velázquez. “My provision would channel federal dollars to the Island, employing local small firms in the recovery process and on other projects. Federal procurement spending can be a powerful tool for stimulating local economic growth and, right now, Puerto Rico can use all the help it can get.” Currently, a small number of federal contracts are performed in Puerto Rico with the Island ranking 50th out of 56, in comparison to all U.S. states and territories. Between Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015 the total awards of federal contracts to Puerto Rican small businesses declined by nearly $85 million. Empowering Employees by Supporting Cooperatives Today, the House also passed Velázquez’s provision to assist employees seeking to own a stake in their workplace. Her measure would make it easier for small firms to utilize the Small Business Administration’s 7(a) program to finance their transition to employee-owned models such as an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) or a cooperative (co-op). ESOPs and co-ops have a proven track record of success, with companies that transition to the employee-ownership model seeing an increase in productivity by 4 to 5 percent. Velázquez’s bill would help employee-owned businesses access capital to cover the high costs of becoming a ESOP, which are often upwards of $80,000. Velázquez’s provision was further prompted by the success of local employee-owned co-operatives in her home district of New York City. She worked closely with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) in crafting this legislation. “As an upsurge of baby boomer business owners move towards retirement, this bill takes steps to help employees retain their jobs by gaining a stake in their company’s ownership,” said Velázquez. “We know that workers at employee-owned enterprises tend to be paid better and achieve higher rates of financial security. I am proud to have partnered with Senator Gillibrand to advance this important legislation which will help make the co-operative model more accessible to businesses in New York and throughout the nation.” The NDAA package passed in the House today. It now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration where it is expected to be approved in coming weeks. ###
07.25.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY)’s bill, H.R. 4463, to rename a Chinatown post office in memory of a local luminary, Mabel Lee, was signed into law today by the President of the United States. Located at 6 Doyers Street in Manhattan’s Chinatown, the new “Mabel Lee Memorial Post Office,” will honor Lee’s vision and legacy within the Chinese-American community and beyond. “I am thrilled that the United States Congress and President chose to honor the life of Mabel Lee by enacting my bill,” said Velázquez. “Renaming this local post office to honor Lee’s extraordinary legacy is an appropriate way to commemorate her commitment to the neighborhood she cherished.” Mabel Lee was the first Chinese woman to receive a PhD from Columbia University, paving the way for future generations. After graduating from Columbia, Lee is known for organizing classes for Chinatown’s residents to build skills in areas like carpentry, radio and typewriting. At just age 22, Lee led Chinese and Chinese-American women in a May 1917 pro-suffrage parade in New York City. “Mabel Lee embodies what it means to be a steadfast public servant,” said Velázquez. “All New Yorkers owe her a debt of gratitude and our community will always remember her many contributions.” Velázquez’s bill cleared both chambers of Congress with bipartisan support and was signed into law by President Trump on July 25th. ###
07.24.2018	Praises Stay of Deportation of Ecuadorian Immigrant Detained Delivering Pizza Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding news that a federal judge ordered the release of the man who was detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) when delivering pizza to Fort Hamilton Army Base in New York: “I’m truly gratified to see that the court has not only ordered Mr. Villavicencio released, but is also staying his deportation to allow him to exercise all legal options. This is a hardworking family man who was needlessly detained when he was trying to do his job and support his family. We simply must put an end to this climate of fear and suspicion that is terrorizing immigrant communities. Enough is enough. “It is my hope that not only will he be allowed to stay in the U.S., but that also military personnel will think twice in the future before arbitrarily calling immigration enforcement.” In late June, Velázquez led thirteen colleagues from the New York Congressional delegation in writing to Fort Hamilton Army Base and pressing for answers about the circumstances leading up to Mr. Villavicencio’s detention. ###
07.23.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and 13 additional New York bicameral members of Congress have written to top immigration enforcement officials demanding answers on the Executive Office of Immigration Review (EOIR) and ICE’s abrupt policy to substitute in-person hearings for video conference calls at its processing center in Lower Manhattan. In the letter, the lawmakers argue that forcing immigrants to resort to video conferencing during legal proceedings undermines one’s right to full and fair consideration of their case. “This is the latest Trump Administration assault on immigrants’ rights and a clear effort to undermine our due process system,” said Velázquez. “By gutting in-person hearings, EOIR and ICE are making it harder for immigrants to exercise their constitutional rights. We are demanding a full explanation of how ICE arrived at and is justifying this policy change.” “The sudden replacement of in-person hearings for video conference calls in Lower Manhattan is baffling and unsubstantiated. In all likelihood, this change will only have an adverse impact on immigrants’ ability to use all the legal resources and options available to them – which in turn has a negative impact on the result of their removal proceedings. We need more details as to why it decided to get rid of in-person hearings in parts of NYC without notifying the public in advance and what the intended and unintended consequences will be. These changes undermine constitutional due process without justification, and New Yorkers need answers as to why,” said Congressman Jose E. Serrano. On the heels of President Trump’s tweet saying immigrants at the border should be denied due process, officials in EOIR Lower Manhattan immigration court made a quiet decision to switch from in-person hearings to video conferences for immigrants seeking counsel. In the letter, the lawmakers are asking EOIR and ICE to provide justification and an explanation for the sudden policy change. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. July 23, 2018 The Honorable Ronald D. Vitiello The Honorable James McHenry Deputy Director and Acting Director Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Executive Office for Immigration Review Washington, D.C. 20536 Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Deputy Director and Acting Director Vitiello: As Members of Congress, we write to express our concerns over the abrupt decision taken by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to substitute in-person hearings for video conference calls at its processing center in Lower Manhattan, New York.[1] This practice is likely to result in substantially negative consequences for immigrants who are attempting to exercise all their legal options prior to being potentially deported from the United States. Under the announced video conference call policy, it is unlikely that an immigrant in deportation proceedings will be able to receive full and fair consideration of their petition and to meet with an attorney. It may also impact an immigrant’s ability to exercise their full rights to attorney-client confidentiality.[2] Given the deeply concerning nature of this policy and its ability to impact full and fair consideration of petitions and requests, consistent with applicable rules, law and regulations, we ask that you provide answers to the following questions: 1. Your agency has decided that “hearings [have] been canceled because of safety reasons.” Please specify what conditions, incidents or potentially harmful risk exists for judges, adjudicating officers, detainees, or officers of the court. a. How frequently have these conditions interfered with the duties of officers or judges? i. What steps were taken to remedy such conditions before deciding to cancel hearings? b. Have such conditions generated any processing backlogs? c. In your review, how does this policy impact the due process for immigrants? i. How does your agency intend to provide language interpreters or culturally sensitive solutions for immigrants whose cases will now be heard via a video conference? 2. How many immigration courts in the EOIR system currently use video conference hearings in lieu of in person hearings? a. Excluding the Varick Street Immigration Court, what percentage of immigration proceedings currently taking place in other immigration courts use video conference technologies? b. What percentage of immigration proceedings for detained immigrants nationally current take place via video conference technologies? c. Please provide this information broken out by court location. 3. Absent the alleged safety reasons discussion, under what circumstances is this change necessary? a. How are these circumstances, if at all, more important than providing immigrants the right to appropriate access to legal counsel that has been provided by the local jurisdiction in question? Due to the nature of this policy change in New York and its sudden implementation, we request that you submit answers to these questions no later than 15 business days from the date of this letter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress Charles Schumer Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator United States Senator Yvette D. Clarke Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat Hakeem S. Jeffries Member of Congress Member of Congress Thomas R. Suozzi Grace Meng Member of Congress Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Carolyn B. Maloney Member of Congress Member of Congress Eliot L. Engel Joe Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress ###
07.23.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today regarding changes announced at the New York Daily News: “The NY Daily News has long been a critical source of news for our city, unearthing important issues like lead paint in public housing, the health ailments affecting 9/11 first responders, and abuse of eviction rules targeting people of color. The loss of local news resources is always bad for our communities, but it is especially unsettling when discussing an iconic outlet like the News. “I'm thinking today of all the talented reporters and editors I've worked with there over the years. While I didn't agree with every editorial decision made or how I was covered, I always respected and valued the institution and these professionals’ commitment to serving and informing New Yorkers. Now more than ever, our city and our nation need hard hitting, local newspapers staffed by reporters willing to ask the tough questions.” ###
07.16.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s meeting with Vladimir Putin: “This is a shameful day in our national history. Today, the President of the United States shared a stage with a known foreign adversary, kowtowing to him, refusing to stand up for American interests and debasing our country, as a whole. “For anyone who has questioned whether Vladimir Putin has leverage over Donald Trump, today’s disgraceful performance should lay those doubts to rest. Now, it is more imperative than ever that the Special Counsel be permitted to continue its work unimpeded. Republicans in Congress must also finally put their country first, step forward and begin holding Donald Trump accountable. Our democracy’s future hangs in the balance.” In December of 2016, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call on the Department of Justice to appoint a Special Counsel. ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on the release of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) 2017 Hurricane Season After-Action Report: “This report makes clear what we already knew, namely, that FEMA was profoundly unprepared for Maria, its response was hobbled by incompetence and a lack of leadership and, tragically, the people of Puerto Rico suffered because of it. This Administration was woefully unready for the severity of this storm and it cost Puerto Ricans their lives. From the President on down, this Administration failed 3.3 million American citizens in Puerto Rico. “Time and again, Administrator Long assured Congress and the American people that the agency was managing the disaster in a responsive, orderly way. Now, the Administrator’s own agency has produced a report showing this to be glaringly false. There needs to be accountability and profound change at FEMA.” ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) have written a letter urging ICE officials to release a couple detained on the fourth of July holiday while visiting their son-in-law, a sergeant in the U.S. Army at Fort Drum army base. The couple, Margarito Silva and Concepción Barrios, both longtime Brooklyn residents, intended to celebrate the holiday with their daughter and son-in-law and presented municipal IDs to the guards. Instead, they were detained by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and are being held in custody in Buffalo, New York. “Continued arrest is likely to impose significant medical hardship on the couple—your agents have had to store medication and receive specially prepared meals from the family,” wrote the lawmakers. “It is our view that the family has not received enough assurances that such practices will continue, or that appropriate accommodations will be provided consistently if the family exercises their available legal options while under ICE detention.” The full text of their letter is below. For a PDF, click here. July 12, 2018 Thomas E. Feeley Field Office Director Enforcement and Removal Operations Buffalo Field Office 130 Delaware Avenue Buffalo, NY, 14202 RE: BARRIOS, Concepcion SILVA, Margarito Dear Director Feeley: As Members of Congress, we write to express our support for both Ms. Concepcion Barrios’s and Mr. Margarito Silva’s request to be removed from custody as the family works to exhaust all their legal options. Both are currently under detention after attempting to visit their son-in-law at the Fort Drum army base in Jefferson County, NY during the Independence Day holiday.[1] Continued arrest is likely to impose significant medical hardship on the couple—your agents have had to store medication and receive specially prepared meals from the family.[2] It is our view that the family has not received enough assurances that such practices will continue, or that appropriate accommodations will be provided consistently if the family exercises their available legal options while under ICE detention. The arrest of the family raises significant concerns, particularly given the health considerations of the individual detainees and the family relationship to the soldier whom they were there to visit. Neither Ms. Barrios nor Mr. Silva have a criminal record and pose no immediate threat to our community or to national security. Given the circumstances and the non-existent risk these immigrants pose to our community, we appreciate your review of this request, and to exercise full and fair consideration of this request, consistent with applicable law, rules and regulations. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation aimed at protecting immigrant families from fraudulent “Notarios”, public notaries who do not have law degrees, but provide advice on the federal immigration system and often assist immigrants in filling out forms as they pursue visas, work permits and status adjustments. Unfortunately, there have been a multitude of cases throughout the country where unscrupulous actors operating in this profession have defrauded immigrants, made unrealistic promises, incorrectly completed clients’ paperwork or falsely claimed to be an attorney. “In New York City, we’ve heard of several instances where some of our most vulnerable neighbors were swindled and, in some cases, immigrants were sold deceptive products that they were incorrectly told could shield them against deportation,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez. “By tightening standards and improving transparency, this bill will help protect some of our most vulnerable neighbors from those that would prey upon them.” Velázquez’s bill would authorize $15 million annually for immigrant consumer fraud hotlines and informational websites operated by states or local jurisdictions in conjunction with local nonprofits. An additional new grant program would be funded with $10 million per year for state or local jurisdictions to conduct outreach campaigns against immigration fraud with local stakeholder organizations. Other reforms in the bill include additional disclosure requirements, clarifying that service providers are not service providers; the right for a client to have an attorney review contracts with immigration service providers; and other protections enforced by the Federal Trade Commission. “Certainly, some notarios provide useful services, but at the same time we need to be certain those paying for these services are receiving what they are promised,” Velázquez added. “This legislation will use both federal and local resources to better protect our immigrant communities from those who would take advantage of them and exploit their status for profit.” The legislation was cosponsored by Reps. Marc Veasey (D-TX) and Joe Crowley (D-NY). “We must ensure that our immigrant communities are protected from fake legal notaries, who are preying on vulnerable families, falsely claiming to be attorneys, and overpromising and under delivering,” said Congressman Veasey (D-TX). “This is a critical issue across Texas, and why I’ve introduced past legislation to bring this issue to light. I strongly support Congresswoman Velázquez’s bill to dedicate more resources to combat scams that target these families. We can’t let them fall through the cracks – they need to receive proper legal counsel.” “Time and time again, we’ve heard the devastating stories of fraudulent notarios preying on immigrant communities, scamming families out of money and destroying their dreams,” said Congressman Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “I’m proud to work with Congresswoman Velazquez and Congressman Veasey in putting forward this legislation to help protect immigrant families from this abusive practice.” A wide range or advocacy organizations endorsed the legislation. "Notario fraud preys upon the most vulnerable in our communities – new immigrants seeking legal services. We commend Reps. Velázquez, Crowley, and Veasey for introducing this critical bill to help immigrant New Yorkers who have been exploited by those taking advantage of our broken immigration system," said Steven Choi, Executive Director of the New York Immigration Coalition. “Every day, we hear stories of families falling through the cracks of our outdated, inhumane immigration system. These stories are all the more heartbreaking when they are the result of incompetent—and often malicious—notarios preying on people attempting to do the right thing and file paperwork with the government,” said Oscar Chacón, executive director of Alianza Americas. “We applaud Congresswoman Velazquez’s leadership in cracking down on notarios and all forms of consumer fraud.” “Immigrant communities are being divided and exploited on multiple levels,” said Lakshmi Sridaran, Director of National Policy and Advocacy, South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT). “Notario fraud, which has been an enduring problem targeting immigrant families, is even more dangerous in our current environment. We applaud Congressional leadership for introducing the Protecting Immigrant Communities from Consumer Fraud Act to help ensure that immigrant communities receive the timely and appropriate legal services they are entitled to. This bill increases resources for state and local jurisdictions to help meet the need for increased legal support and adds critical accountability measures. We must all be vigilant in protecting immigrant families during a time of heightened attacks, detentions, raids, and deportations.” "As a relatively newer immigrant community, the Nepali-speaking community is quickly growing, but also increasingly susceptible to issues of immigration fraud,” said Narbada Chhetri, Director of Organizing and Programs for Adhikaar. “As an immigrant myself, I have also seen and experienced individuals claiming to be immigration attorneys and then delivering on nothing. As the Director of Organizing & Programs at Adhikaar, I have also seen hundreds of community members who have lost thousands of dollars in hopes of gaining legal status, money that could have been used to support their families. This proposed legislation is necessary, especially in this time, as the administration increases measures to further fear in our communities and place them at risk. Now is the time that groups like us and members of Congress must work hand in hand to fight back and fight for our immigrant communities." ###
07.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, three key federal lawmakers wrote to the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA), calling for the utility to incorporate renewable energy sources as the beleaguered Island’s energy production and distribution systems are modernized. The letter, written by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY); Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee (D-AZ); and Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, comes as talks are underway regarding the utility’s future and privatization efforts. Following Hurricanes Irma and Maria, many of the Commonwealth’s 3.3 million residents endured the longest blackout in U.S. history. In their letter, the Members of Congress note that the Island’s longstanding fossil fuel dependence has strained Puerto Rico financially, while engendering health problems among those who live there. Moreover, the letter notes, Puerto Rico’s year-round tropical climate makes it an excellent candidate for greater employment of renewable energy. The letter states, “An improved grid and structure of utility operations must emphasize efficiency and be flexible enough to accommodate increasing use of both utility-scale renewable power generation and distributed renewable energy resources to allow consumers to generate their own electricity and sell surplus power back to the grid… It is our moral responsibility to protect families from the destruction of their natural resources and steer them into a strong economy and resilient, clean future. Instead of chaining the people of Puerto Rico to yesterday’s energy sources, PREPA must actively implement improvements and enhancements for Puerto Rico’s electric system in order to effectively strengthen and modernize Puerto Rico’s electric grid to withstand storms of the future.” Text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. July 10, 2018 Walter M. Higgins Chief Executive Officer Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) PO Box 364267 San Juan, PR 00936-4267 Dear Mr. Higgins: We write regarding the island’s transition to renewable energies[1] and our grave concerns about the ongoing energy challenges in Puerto Rico. After the 3.3 million citizens in Puerto Rico endured the largest blackout in U.S. history, it is important that the island consider energy alternatives that make the best use of indigenous resources and technologies that are more resilient, cost-effective, reliable, clean, efficient, and affordable. In a matter of hours, Hurricane Maria altered landscapes, daily lives, economies, infrastructure, and even the Commonwealth’s debt restructuring process. In the aftermath of this historic storm, the island has the chance to transition from an energy system dependent on imported fossil fuels to one relying primarily on the use of locally generated renewable energy resources. A transition to renewable energy resources would optimize the way in which Puerto Rico produces and distributes energy across the entire island. As plans are developed for strengthening and improving Puerto Rico’s grid, all ideas should be considered. An improved grid and structure of utility operations must emphasize efficiency and be flexible enough to accommodate increasing use of both utility-scale renewable power generation and distributed renewable energy resources to allow consumers to generate their own electricity and sell surplus power back to the grid. In addition, the design must allow for development of microgrids to ensure that key facilities (e.g., hospitals, emergency response facilities, and power-sensitive businesses) and more remote communities will continue to have power in the event of a major grid outage. A 21st century grid for Puerto Rico must accommodate full use of clean energy resources. An increased use of clean energy that is properly executed, coupled with a flexible policy that enables consumers to have more control over their energy costs, will position Puerto Rico as a leader in clean energy and grid modernization and provide the territory with vital infrastructure on which to rebuild and grow its economy. Economic Costs and Heath Impacts of Fossil Fuel Use Puerto Rico’s heavy reliance on electricity generated from fossil fuels comes at significant economic and health costs. Currently, 98 percent of the island’s electricity is generated from imported fossil fuel (64 percent petroleum and coal, 34 percent natural gas),[2] and these fuels consume 46 percent of PREPA’s budget. Such an arrangement is not sustainable from either a fiscal or environmental perspective. Puerto Rico’s reliance on fossil fuel affects more than just finances. For far too long, Puerto Rico’s residents have borne the health consequences of their exposure to pollutants associated with fossil fuel use. Small mountains of highly toxic coal ash are scattered throughout the island, threatening water and air contamination during every storm, no matter how severe. Burning coal also produces dangerous airborne emissions like lead and mercury, which are known to cause health problems including learning disabilities and violent behavior. It is no wonder the American Lung Association reports that Puerto Ricans have higher rates of asthma than any other U.S. population group.[3] Taken together, the human health risks and economic costs of fossil fuels underscore the need for Puerto Rico to increase use of clean energy technologies. Benefits of Renewable Technologies For now, the island will likely need to replace aging, dirty power plants with some natural gas. However, investing too much in new natural gas infrastructure will commit Puerto Rico to ongoing dependence on imported fuel. While natural gas prices may be relatively low now, PREPA’s severe budget constraints will require all costs of this infrastructure and on-going fuel costs to be passed on to ratepayers. This is not a strategy that will help PREPA or Puerto Rico to improve their fiscal situations. Over time, increased use of renewable fuel technologies can lower energy prices for businesses and residents, which can result in a stronger overall economy, growth in jobs to support the renewables industry, and more disposable income that residents can use to purchase other goods and services, thereby contributing to every sector of the economy. In fact, a recent study by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory showed that renewable energy can be effectively and efficiently integrated into PREPA’s system to outperform traditional operation practices.[4] Fossil fuel interests are proposing to take over PREPA’s generation, transmission, and distribution business.[5] Although previous PREPA plans include very low contributions from renewable generation,[6] it would be a giant step backward for the people of Puerto Rico to put a fossil fuel company in charge of PREPA, regardless of the utility’s future as a private or public corporation. Success Stories Due to Puerto Rico’s geographic location and year-long tropical climate, the island has an incredible wealth of renewables that it should tap into, including wind and solar resources. PREPA should be leading the charge to set an ultimate goal of 100 percent renewable energy for the island, following in the footsteps of Hawaii. The experience with renewable generation in several municipalities demonstrates the viability and benefits of having a more flexible, diversified grid structure and expanded renewable generation. In the municipality of Adjuntas, Casa Pueblo, a non-profit led by Dr. Arturo Massol-Deyá, has showcased just how powerful mutual aid and community engagement can be when residents control their own energy policies. In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Maria, Casa Pueblo’s lights were already shining bright without the help of PREPA. Similarly, Coquí Solar in Salinas displayed great resiliency in the wake of Maria thanks to its low dependence on fossil fuel generation. The success stories of non-profits like Casa Pueblo and Coquí Solar are living proof that we can safely rely on renewables and improve the overall health of our communities. This is no longer a pipe dream. It is real, observable, and measurable. There is ample evidence that on-site renewable energy generation, paired with storage, offers resilient power solutions during times of fuel disruptions.[7] It is our moral responsibility to protect families from the destruction of their natural resources and steer them into a strong economy and resilient, clean future. Instead of chaining the people of Puerto Rico to yesterday’s energy sources, PREPA must actively implement improvements and enhancements for Puerto Rico’s electric system in order to effectively strengthen and modernize Puerto Rico’s electric grid to withstand storms of the future. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Raúl M. Grijalva Frank Pallone, Jr. Member of Congress Ranking Member Ranking Member House Committee on House Committee on Natural Resources Energy & Commerce ###
06.29.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today calling for the abolition of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “ICE is being used to terrorize immigrant communities and carry out President Trump’s immoral ‘zero-tolerance’ policy. Moreover, the agency’s almost myopic focus on harassing and targeting immigrants distracts from priorities most Americans actually share - like cracking down on transnational criminals and sex traffickers. At this point, modest reforms at the margins of the agency are insufficient. The time has come to abolish ICE. “While eliminating ICE would be an important step, it alone is not enough to halt Donald Trump’s deportation machine. This Administration is attacking immigrants on a multitude of fronts and we must resist on all of them. That includes reuniting and releasing families separated at the border, ending family detention and passing protections for Dreamers and TPS recipients.” ###
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored legislation to make federal food benefits in Puerto Rico available as cash immediately in the event of another major natural disaster. Following Hurricanes Irma and Maria, all of Puerto Rico lost access to electricity and telecommunications, resulting in widespread challenges for those looking to access Nutritional Assistance Program (NAP) benefits, which are currently distributed electronically. “Eight months after Maria, as we enter another hurricane season, Puerto Rico’s energy grid remains extraordinarily vulnerable,” Velázquez said. “This legislation would ensure that, in the event of another power outage, those who rely on federal nutrition programs could still access benefits and the help they need.” Even before the 2017 hurricane season, 45 percent Puerto Ricans lived below the poverty line, many of them counting on the NAP program to meet their basic nutritional needs. “Puerto Rico has undergone the most severe humanitarian crisis in the United States in any of our lifetimes,” Velázquez noted. “Yet, even before the hurricanes, the Island was suffering from extreme poverty. We owe it to our fellow citizens to do everything in our power to assist them and this legislation will ensure seniors, children and the most vulnerable have enough to eat even after another major disaster.” Velázquez’s legislation comes as the United States Senate undertakes consideration of its version of the Farm Bill, which contains provisions related to the Nutritional Assistance Program and the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program. “In coming days, I’ll be working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to see this legislation approved by Congress,” Velázquez added. “Whether it is by passing this bill independently or as an amendment to a larger bill, Congress must ensure that the Island’s residents do not lose access to federal food benefits, should Puerto Rico’s electricity grid go down once more.” ###
06.25.2018	Washington, DC –After the alarming detention of Pablo Villavicencio, a Brooklyn pizza delivery man, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) and eleven other Members of Congress have sent two letters probing the circumstances of his arrest and asking for his release from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) custody. At Fort Hamilton Army Base simply to deliver a pizza, Villavicencio was subject to a background check by the guards and taken into ICE custody where he remains. In the first letter, lawmakers pressed the Commanding Officer at Fort Hamilton for transparency into the policies at the base that led to Villavicencio’s arrest. Villavicencio was detained for presenting a municipal identification card instead of a license, and reports indicate that a background check was performed despite a fellow officer’s plea not to run the check. “The actions taken by the post generate pressing questions about Fort Hamilton’s current policies, which are critical to maintaining public trust and safety,” wrote the lawmakers. “Furthermore, it can be argued that the practices employed in this particular scenario may fall outside the immediate responsibilities of Fort Hamilton’s guards.” In the second letter to New York’s director of ICE, lawmakers are asking for Villavicencio’s release from ICE custody so he can exhaust all his legal options before deportation. First detained on June 1st, Villavicencio remains in ICE’s custody at a facility in New Jersey. He is married to an American citizen and the father of two young daughters. In February, Villavicencio had filed for a green card application. “Living in the United States, he has dedicated his life to his family—his daughters and wife—whom are all U.S. citizens. A further review indicates that he has no criminal record,” the letter states. “Mr. Villavicencio’s friends, family and the greater community at large request that he be granted release from custody as he exercises the right to exhaust all his legal options before being removed from the United States. We would appreciate your review of this request, and to exercise full and fair consideration of this request, consistent with applicable law, rules and regulations.” In addition to Velázquez, Rice and Schumer, the letter was signed by: Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY); Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY); Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries (D-NY); Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY); Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY); Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY); Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY); Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY); Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY); Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY). The full text of the both letters is below. For a PDF, click here and here. June 22, 2018 Colonel Peter Sicoli Commanding Officer United States Army Fort Hamilton Garrison Brooklyn, NY 11252 Dear Col. Peter Sicoli: As Members of Congress, we are writing to express our concerns over the detention of Pablo Villavicencio, who was arrested and detained after attempting to deliver pizza to the Brooklyn U.S. Army post in Fort Hamilton.[1] The circumstances surrounding his arrest are questionable. Mr. Villavicencio was detained for presenting a municipal identification card instead of a license. A facility guard examined his ID and ran a background check and called Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to facilitate his arrest and detention. It is our understanding that the facility in question executed a background check despite being pleaded by a fellow officer to not conduct the check.[2] While it is understood that Department of Defense (DOD) policy requires anyone without an official ID to go through a background check,[3] it is unclear why this policy applies to persons who do not, per se, have official business at the post. Based on the statement provided by the DOD spokesperson to the New York Times, we can conclude that regardless of the type of license or ID card presented, it would have likely generated a background check.[4] While Mr. Villavicencio was physically present at the base, he was not in the vicinity to conduct official business; he was there to deliver pizza. The actions taken by the post generate pressing questions about Fort Hamilton’s current policies, which are critical to maintaining public trust and safety. Furthermore, it can be argued that the practices employed in this particular scenario may fall outside the immediate responsibilities of Fort Hamilton’s guards. Given the unusual circumstances surrounding Mr. Villavicencio’s arrest and transfer to ICE custody, we seek answers to the following questions. 1. Under what circumstances does a background check initiated by a guard of the Army base generate the response of an external local police agency or federal agency? a. Please provide, in both numerical and percentage terms, the total number of background checks that have been executed by guards at Fort Hamilton and an analysis of how frequently this practice has resulted in the involvement of an external local police force or federal agency. 2. In the absence of an acceptable form of identification (i.e. driver license or passport), what is the current protocol for deliveries to Fort Hamilton? a. Please describe, in detail, the process that guards employ to inform delivery employees of the background check process.[5] i. Do guards on duty explain to delivery employees that they may opt-out of a background check (i.e. not sign the waiver) if they choose not to enter the base? If so, please provide us with the instructions and guidance currently furnished by Fort Hamilton. If not, please describe why Fort Hamilton does not explain this opt-out right. ii. As part of your answer to the above, please provide the details governing the background check waiver and the efforts employed by Fort Hamilton to inform persons, in clear terminology, the implications of the waiver. iii. To your knowledge, are there reports from Fort Hamilton staff that indicate that other delivery employees have had to sign a waiver to “complete their delivery?” A. How many such deliveries have also led to law enforcement detention? B. Out of the persons who were referred to law enforcement for detention purposes, how many are immigrants? I. Did these persons understand fully the terms and conditions governing the background check waiver? If not, were they informed of their right to opt-out? II. How often do you engage with the local business community to ensure that delivery employees understand their responsibilities and the terms and conditions that govern their entry to the base? 3. The New York Times reported on June 8, 2018 that Mr. Villavicencio’s attorney expressed concern over the fact that he may have not consented to the background check in question. This issue has been brought up in follow-up reporting and a copy of the waiver was not immediately available. If his detention is ultimately found to be based on a non-consented waiver, what changes will Fort Hamilton implement to prevent such future incidents? Given the circumstances, we kindly request a written a response to these questions within 15 calendar days and look forward to reviewing these issues with you. Sincerely, June 22, 2018 Mr. Tom Decker, Director New York Field Office Immigration and Customs Enforcement 26 Federal Plaza New York, NY 10278 RE: VILLAVICENCIO, Pablo Dear Director Decker: As Members of Congress, we write to express our support for Mr. Pablo Villavicencio’s petition and request to exhaust all legal options. Mr. Villavicencio is currently pending removal through Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). As previously noted by other Members of Congress [on date of letter’s sendoff], Mr. Villavicencio’s arrest and detention raise significant concerns. Despite having a petition pending with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), he was immediately detained and processed for removal from the United States. Living in the United States, he has dedicated his life to his family—his daughters and wife—whom are all U.S. citizens. A further review indicates that he has no criminal record. Mr. Villavicencio’s friends, family and the greater community at large request that he be granted release from custody as he exercises the right to exhaust all his legal options before being removed from the United States. We would appreciate your review of this request, and to exercise full and fair consideration of this request, consistent with applicable law, rules and regulations. Sincerely, Members of Congress ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Dimitrios "Jim" Komninos, Woodhaven community member and husband of Lisa Komninos, President of the Greater Woodhaven Development Corporation. “I grieve alongside the entire community of Woodhaven over the loss of Lisa’s beloved husband and cherished community member, Jim. Tragically, Jim’s death comes within weeks of the passing of Lisa’s mother, Helen Grunseich. “A tireless fighter for the community she loves, Lisa comes to work every day to improve the lives of Woodhaven’s families and business owners. I hope Lisa and her sons John and Nicholas find some comfort in knowing that so many of us are sending our deepest condolences and prayers.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today after the House voted to pass the GOP Farm Bill. “The passage of this morally bankrupt bill further exposes the steps that Republicans are willing to take to penalize the vulnerable. This bill’s drastic cuts to SNAP would rip food from the mouths of babies, send kids to school with empty stomachs and punish hardworking families and seniors. For these reasons, I voted emphatically no. “SNAP helps over 41 million individuals across the country put food on the table. In my district alone, 65,672 households count on SNAP benefits for nutritional help. It is a particularly sickening irony that, the very same week Congressional Republicans scramble – ineffectively – to address the Trump Administration’s shameful, cruel policies that rip migrant children from their parents’ arms, House Republicans passed a bill taking food from the mouths of American children. “At times like this, it is bewildering that Republicans continue attempting to claim the mantle of the party of ‘family values.’ “This radical bill breaks with longstanding bipartisan tradition and it is my hope that more prudent decisions will be made when the measure is reconciled with the Senate-passed farm bill. Congress must return to its practice of working across party lines to craft a Farm Bill that puts hardworking families first.” ###
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today regarding the President’s separation of families policy: “Donald Trump created a crisis with his new policy of detaining children and then claimed he needed Congress to solve it. Today, he signed an insufficient Executive Order, saying he's solved the problem. The Administration’s cruelty and heartlessness is rivaled only by its inconsistency. “More importantly, for children ripped from their parents, the trauma remains and for families separated there is no guarantee of reunification. Going forward, alarmingly, this Executive Order means that, at best, families will now be detained together. Children will potentially remain for the long term in prison-like conditions. We should be working to see families released together, not detained. Donald Trump’s entire ‘zero tolerance’ policy must be reversed and we cannot rest until families are back together.” ###
06.20.2018	In era of Trump Cuts, Announces Bill to Expand Access to Music Education in Underserved Schools Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to make music education more affordable and accessible in America’s schools. Her bill, the Guarantee Access to Arts & Music Education (GAAME) Act would expand Title 1 funds to help underserved elementary and secondary schools implement meaningful and enriching music education. “The role of music and art in a child’s development cannot be forgotten—especially in schools where funding is limited and budgets are stretched,” said Velázquez. “I am proud to introduce legislation that would open the doors for enriching music education in these schools and help to ensure that all children are exposed to the joy and benefits of learning music.” Aside from expanding the traditional classroom experience, music education has proven to improve a student’s speech and reading skills, ability to feel empathy and attention span. Furthermore, one study shows that students who participated in at least nine hours of arts education per week were four times more likely to have been recognized for academic achievement than their peers. In 2016, the score gap between white and Hispanic students narrowed as participation in arts activities rose from 2008. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 6137, would amend the 2015 Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) to further emphasize arts and music education, unlocking important federal dollars under Title 1. Title 1 funds are the largest source of funding under the ESSA and are designed to provide equal opportunity to economically and socially disadvantaged students. The GAAME Act has been endorsed by 31 organizations including the National Association for Music Education. It also has 37 original co-sponsors in the House. “As an Association, our mission has always been to promote the understanding and making of music by all. When music was enumerated as part of a “well-rounded education,” we became one step closer to achieving that goal, and the Guarantee Access to Arts and Music Education Act (GAAME) will continue that same trajectory,” said Mike Blakeslee, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Association for Music Education. “This legislation will encourage school districts to use their Title I, Part A funds to improve student access to a sequential and standards-based music education for disadvantaged and low-income students. NAfME is committed to supporting these students, who all deserve access to and equity in the delivery of music education.” As the Trump Administration pushes an agenda of draconian cuts to the arts and humanities, Velázquez is working to expand opportunities for art teachers and students. In addition to introducing the GAAME Act, Velázquez is the author of the American Arts Revival Act, which offers student loan relief to artistic professionals who provide services for seniors, children or adolescents. “Instead of putting arts education on the chopping block, we must recognize it for what it is—a vital public service,” said Velázquez. “I urge Congress to pass the GAAME Act and help me ensure that children from all backgrounds can experience the benefits of learning music in their classrooms.” ###
06.19.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today that she has officially cosponsored legislation, H.R. 6135, the “Keep Families Together Act,” a measure to end family separation at the U.S. border. The bill is the House companion to legislation introduced by Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. Velázquez made the following remarks: “Earlier this week, I joined Leader Pelosi and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in visiting several detention centers near the U.S. border in San Diego. What we saw was appalling. The Trump Administration’s recent policy shift has led to children being ripped from their mother’s arms. This is quite literally child abuse. “Donald Trump could stop these atrocities, right now, with one phone call. Instead, this week, we have watched the President and the Secretary of Homeland Security lie to the American people about the Administration’s role in creating this crisis and then miscast blame at Congressional Democrats. “Today, I am proud to join Ranking Member Nadler in introducing legislation that would provide an immediate legislative remedy to this problem. As Donald Trump created this crisis, he should end it. Until then, we will continue pushing this legislation, which, if the Republican Leadership would allow to be enacted, would resolve this issue immediately.” ###
06.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Xiuqing You, a Queens father who was detained when he appeared for his green card interview: “By all accounts, Mr. You is an upstanding community member who is gainfully employed and has worked tirelessly to support his family. It is unconscionable that ICE would detain him as he appeared for a regularly scheduled adjustment of status interview. I will be joining with my colleagues in the New York City delegation to get to the bottom of this case and press for Mr. You’s fair treatment and release.” ###
06.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, today wrote the head of the Small Business Administration (SBA), requesting that the agency continue processing late applications for economic injury and physical damage loans related to Hurricane Maria. The window to apply for loans to assist with property damage expires today, while the application period for economic injury loans closes Wednesday, June 20th. Last week, Velázquez wrote to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) asking that FEMA extend the application periods for disaster relief efforts related to Maria, something the agency failed to do. In today’s letter, Velázquez requests that the SBA use its authority to keep accepting and processing late loan applications. Even today, as the application windows come to a close, SBA continues receiving approximately 300 loan applications, daily. “Hurricane Maria was one of the most devastating storms on record, resulting in over $90 billion in damages to Puerto Rico and other Caribbean Islands,” Velázquez’s letter states. “Puerto Rico experienced the largest blackout in U.S. history, and thousands are still without reliable electrical power to this day… With all the obstacles that those in the region have faced, everything should be done to avoid creating unnecessary hardships that will only hinder recovery efforts by ending access to SBA disaster assistance. Therefore, I urge you to exercise your authority to continue to accept and process disaster loan applications, for at least 90 days, after the deadlines of June 18 and June 20 for physical and economic injury, respectively.” The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. June 18, 2018 Linda McMahon Administrator U.S. Small Business Administration 409 3rd St SW Washington, DC 20024 Dear Administrator McMahon: I am writing to request that you exercise your authority to accept and process late disaster loan applications for those affected by Hurricane Maria. As you know, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) failed to officially extend the application periods for disaster relief. Specifically, I am referring to the deadlines of June 18 for physical disaster loans and June 20 for economic injury loans. It is of the utmost importance that victims of this disaster have every opportunity to access assistance to rebuild and recover. Hurricane Maria was one of the most devastating storms on record, resulting in over $90 billion in damages to Puerto Rico and other Caribbean Islands. Puerto Rico experienced the largest blackout in U.S. history, and thousands are still without reliable electrical power to this day. Coupled with other infrastructure issues and delayed damage assessments, these factors combined to have a significant impact on the Island’s economy and the ability of small businesses to restart and grow. The SBA disaster loan program was created so that local economies could recover quickly from these disasters in a timely and efficient manner. It has helped communities get back on their feet while at the same time ensuring an efficient use of taxpayer’s dollars in a recovery effort. Unfortunately, nine months after the storm, demand for SBA disaster loans continues to be robust. According to reports, the Agency is still receiving approximately 300 applications for assistance every day. With all the obstacles that those in the region have faced, everything should be done to avoid creating unnecessary hardships that will only hinder recovery efforts by ending access to SBA disaster assistance. Therefore, I urge you to exercise your authority to continue to accept and process disaster loan applications, for at least 90 days, after the deadlines of June 18 and June 20 for physical and economic injury, respectively. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
06.15.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, today wrote to the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), requesting an extension for the application period for those seeking federal loans to recover from Hurricane Maria. The window to apply for loans to assist with property damage expires on Monday, while the application period for economic injury loans closes Wednesday, June 20th. FEMA determines whether the deadlines for these loans are extended. The loan application process is handled through the Small Business Administration (SBA). “Considering the difficulties persisting in Puerto Rico, the deadlines must be extended to ensure that those survivors who are eligible for assistance will be able to apply for it,” Velázquez’s letter states. “Such an extension will provide these individuals with the ability to meet the paperwork requirements, assess their losses, and determine business viability. It will also allow for applicants who have not heard back from the SBA to re-apply or determine whether the SBA loan is even in the system.” The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. June 15, 2018 The Honorable William “Brock” Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C St. S.W. Washington, DC 20472 Dear Administrator Long: I am writing to ask that the deadlines be extended for physical property damage disaster and economic injury disaster loans, respectively June 18 and June 20, for those affected by Hurricane Maria. The natural disaster in the Caribbean created one of the most devastating hardships in the history of the region and has caused harm to millions of homeowners and small businesses in Puerto Rico. The rebuilding of the region will involve a private and public partnership to ensure the local economies start creating jobs and generating business income. Sadly, the area is still struggling in its recovery efforts and the reality is many inhabitants in Puerto Rico are unprepared for another hurricane season already underway. Reports from the area show that the economy is struggling to recover due to a number of factors. Delayed damage assessment and infrastructure deployment has left many unable to access the outreach provided by the Small Business Administration (SBA). Additionally, with many parts of the Island still without power and telecommunications, residents require more time to file disaster loan applications. The deadlines for both physical and economic injury loans are just days away and residents need your support. Considering the difficulties persisting in Puerto Rico, the deadlines must be extended to ensure that those survivors who are eligible for assistance will be able to apply for it. Such an extension will provide these individuals with the ability to meet the paperwork requirements, assess their losses, and determine business viability. It will also allow for applicants who have not heard back from the SBA to re-apply or determine whether the SBA loan is even in the system. The SBA disaster loan program was created so that local economies could recover quickly from these disasters in a timely and efficient manner. It has helped communities get back on their feet while at the same time ensuring an efficient use of taxpayer’s dollars in a recovery effort. With all the obstacles that those in the region have faced, everything should be done to avoid creating unnecessary hardships that will only hinder recovery efforts. The ability of the federal government’s SBA disaster loan program for home and business loans to operate as intended relies on the cooperation of all federal partners, especially the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). I understand that application periods for disaster relief under the Small Business Act must correspond with deadlines set forth under the Stafford Act and for that reason, I strongly urge you to extend the current registration deadlines for an additional 90 days. I appreciate your ongoing efforts and prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Ranking Member House Committee on Small Business
06.14.2018	“9/11 Style” Panel Would Examine Death Toll, Federal Response Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY); Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), the Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee; Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY); and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced legislation to establish a “9/11-style” independent commission to investigate the federal response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico. Introduced in both chambers of Congress, the bill would create a commission charged with examining the federal government’s preparedness and response to a tragedy that it has been estimated may have killed 4,645 or more people in Puerto Rico. “We now know from a number of studies and media reports that the death toll in Puerto Rico is likely staggeringly higher than the official count,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who authored the legislation. “Our legislation would look at how the Trump Administration’s feeble response to this disaster was shaped by the artificially low death toll, the inadequacy of the steps taken by the federal government in advance of the hurricanes and, equally important, what went wrong with the federal response in the weeks after the storms made landfall. Thousands of our fellow American citizens perished in this catastrophe. We need an independent, nonpartisan panel to fully investigate and bring all the facts to light.” “Hurricane Maria was a humanitarian catastrophe and undoubtedly one of the worst this country has ever seen,” said Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), the Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee. “It is heartbreaking to learn that the more we closely examine its aftermath, the clearer we see the federal government failed the people of Puerto Rico. The woefully inadequate federal response was an absolute failure to perform. Because this Administration is doing little to get to the bottom of what happened in Puerto Rico and provide answers to the American public, we need an independent commission to finally launch this effort. I thank Congresswoman Velázquez for leading this effort and looking forward to working with her to get to the bottom of what happened in Puerto Rico so we can ensure it will not happen again.” “Hurricanes Irma and Maria were two of the worst disasters our country has ever experienced and they devastated Puerto Rico, yet the federal government failed in its response to these historic storms,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Congress needs to investigate the government’s response and recovery efforts during and after last year’s hurricanes, and I am proud to introduce this legislation to create a federal 9/11-style commission to get to the bottom of what went wrong. As this year’s hurricane season begins, we must all pledge to stand with our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico, and I will do everything in my power to pass this important legislation into law.” “The devastation caused by the hurricanes in Puerto Rico is one of the worst catastrophes on U.S. soil in recent history. The federal response has been unacceptable. Nine months later, we've entered a new hurricane season but we still don’t know why the preparedness and response were so flawed, and we still don't know the true number of people who died,” said Senator Warren. “The Commission established by our bill will help provide answers that U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico, in Massachusetts, and across the country deserve.” Under the bill, “The National Commission of the Federal Response to Natural Disasters in Puerto Rico Act,” the Commission would consider a broad array of factors that impacted the disaster response. These would include: death toll accuracy and methodology; federal preparedness guidelines issued ahead of the 2017 hurricane season; the vulnerability of Puerto Rico’s economic situation; adequacy of the Island’s telecommunications; and the capacity of the Federal government to quickly mobilize and respond to disasters and emergencies in Puerto Rico. Additionally, the Commission would be tasked with examining any potential disparities in the federal response to Puerto Rico compared with 2017 Mainland disasters. According to news reports, in multiple instances, the response in Puerto Rico was slower and less effective than in places like Texas after Hurricane Harvey. For example, nine days after Maria, just 1.6 million meals were delivered to Puerto Rico while 10.9 million were delivered in the same period after Irma struck Florida and 5.1 million to Texas after Harvey. Compounding a lackluster federal response was a series of botched FEMA contracts that delayed the delivery of crucial supplies such as tarps and meals. A copy of the legislation is available online here. ###
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today after meeting with New York City schools Chancellor Richard Carranza regarding the Mayor’s proposal to alter the admissions process for New York’s specialized schools. Velázquez arranged the meeting, which took place in Lower Manhattan on Monday. “I was pleased to start a dialogue with the Chancellor. While this issue is not resolved, I expressed my concern that no community should be shut out of the process and that these decisions must be made in an inclusive manner. I look forward to continuing the conversation going forward.” 【首府華盛頓訊】聯邦眾議員維樂貴絲（Nydia M.Velázquez，紐約州民主黨）就市長的紐約特殊高中錄取制度改革建議會見紐約市教育總監卡蘭紮（Richard Carranza）後，今日發表如下聲明。維樂貴絲於周一在曼哈頓下城安排了和卡蘭紮的見面。 “我很高興可以與總監開始對話。雖然這個問題並沒有得到解決，但我表達了我對這件事情的關心，即不應該在改革的過程中將任何群體排除在外，並且改革的最終決定必須考慮到所有群體的需求。我期待繼續和總監進行對話。” ###
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Attorney General’s announcement today that the Trump Administration is largely rescinding asylum protections for those fleeing gang violence and domestic abuse: “Once again, this President and this Administration is making clear the depth of their malice toward immigrant families and their lack of empathy for some of the most vulnerable. Not only has the Administration’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy resulted in children being literally ripped from the arms of their parents, but now the Attorney General is trying to eliminate refuge for those fleeing gang and domestic violence. This is shameful. We must work to reverse this immoral policy change by every means possible, including legislatively in the halls of Congress and in the Courts.” ###
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding today’s consent decree signed between the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan and the Mayor: “This consent decree and the promised $2.2 billion capital infusion that will stem from it are important developments for NYCHA and public housing residents in New York City. This will mean that, at last, the agency can move forward with a 21st century public housing system. We should be clear that, these resources, while valuable, do not supplant the need for additional investment in public housing from all levels of government, including additional federal and state funds. I will continue fighting in Congress for the federal government to do its part and reduce the trend of disinvestment.” ###
06.11.2018	Introduce Bicameral Legislation to Study How Fatalities are Determined after Natural Disaster Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA) have introduced new legislation to establish federal procedures for counting fatalities following a natural disaster. Introduced in both chambers of Congress, their legislation, the Counting Our Unexpected Natural Tragedies’ (COUNT) Victims Act, comes on the heels of disturbing reports suggesting the official death toll in Puerto Rico reflects a dramatic undercount. The lawmakers argued that an accurate death toll is key to allocating federal aid and ensuring improved federal response. “Whether it be Hurricane Maria or another natural disaster to come, the accuracy of the death toll has a direct impact on an area’s recovery,” said Senator Harris. “We cannot allow our government’s failed response in Puerto Rico to ever happen again. The ability to accurately count victims of natural disasters will give accurate information to grieving communities, and help us understand how we can mitigate the damage of future disasters.” “Death tolls are important. They influence public perception about the scope of a disaster and often determine what federal resources are allocated for response,” said Velázquez. “Tragically, in Puerto Rico, the official death toll has been vastly undercounted, driving a narrative that has enabled the Trump Administration to brag about its response to Maria, while our fellow citizens were dying. This is shameful and it can never happen again. To that end, I am pleased to join with Senator Harris to introduce the COUNT Act, which will help establish federal procedures to efficiently assess death tolls.” The COUNT Act would authorize $2 million for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to contract with the National Academy of Medicine to conduct a study on how to best assess mortality during and in the aftermath of a natural disaster. Currently, this process is left up to individual states and territories and there is no agreed upon set of best practices to calculate these deaths. On May 29th, the New England Journal of Medicine published a study estimating that 4,645 deaths could be linked to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, over 70 times the official death toll of 64. Other estimates by media organizations have suggested the death toll could approach 1,000. Last December, Velázquez joined with the Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee to request a Government Accountability Office audit of the death toll from Maria. She has also announced legislation to establish a “9-11 style” Commission to investigate the federal response to the natural disasters in Puerto Rico and to examine whether the response was hampered by an artificially low death count. The legislation was cosponsored on the Senate side by Senators Blumenthal (D-CT), Nelson (D-FL), Gillibrand (D-NY), Warren (D-MA), Markey (D-MA), Menendez (D-NJ), and Carper (D-DE). In the House, the bill was cosponsored by Reps. Boyle (D-PA), Grijalva (D-AZ), Serrano (D-NY) and Thompson (D-MS). "The grossly inaccurate death count from Hurricane Maria’s decimation of Puerto Rico is the ultimate disrespect and culminating offense in the parade of errors, mismanagement, and careless indifference displayed by the Trump Administration during its response to this humanitarian crisis, or lack thereof,” said Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA). “It is beyond unacceptable in the United States of America. I am proud to stand with Congresswoman Velázquez and Senator Harris to introduce commonsense legislation to make sure we do everything in our power to make sure this never happens again. I only wish we could go back in time to correct this wrong this time.” “Nobody rebuilding his or her life after a natural disaster should suffer the negligence we’ve seen in Puerto Rico,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), the Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “Too many Puerto Rican families are suffering additional burdens today because officials won’t acknowledge their loved ones’ deaths. This bill is a necessary step in understanding and confronting the real impacts of these tragedies. We cannot hope for a competent response to future disasters, on Puerto Rico or elsewhere, if the administration won’t even acknowledge their real human costs.” “The COUNT Act will make sure that we can develop best practices to better understand the impact of natural disasters and the causes of death after these tragic events,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY). “After Hurricane Maria, it is clear we need to revise the way in which we quantify mortality as a result of natural disasters. Doing so will help provide some sense of closure for families and allow them to apply for needed benefits. It will also ensure that we can devote resources to the specific risk factors that increased the death toll after Hurricane Maria- like the electrical grid failure, flooding, and road closures. This will allow us to better protect vulnerable populations.” ###
06.04.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) and 12 other Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), sent a letter to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson to highlight concerns with the department’s plan to significantly increase rent and work requirements for millions of low income families who rely on federal housing assistance. Nearly 20 percent of all households living in public housing or receiving Housing Choice Vouchers identify as Latino. They also outlined a series of policies and offered to work with the Secretary to help Latino individuals and families afford decent, stable housing, earn a living wage, and get ahead. “This Administration’s heartless proposal to raise rent and impose work requirements on those receiving housing assistance would be devastating to working families and vulnerable populations across our nation,” said Velázquez. “Latinos and people of color would be especially impacted by this wrongheaded approach. We strongly urge the Secretary to abandon this ill-conceived effort and, instead, work in a bipartisan manner with the CHC on policies that expand affordable housing and foster greater economic opportunity.” In addition to Reps. Velázquez, Cárdenas and Espaillat, the following members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus signed the letter: Reps. Napolitano, Torres, Barragan, Lujan Grisham, Roybal-Allard, Costa, Gutiérrez, Grijalva, Vargas, Sires, Soto, Carbajal. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. June 4, 2018 Benjamin S. Carson Sr., M.D. Secretary United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: We are writing to you as Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to express our concerns over the Trump Administration’s legislative proposal, the “Making Affordable Housing Work Act,” which was recently released by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). We are worried about the impact this proposal will have on the affordable housing costs for Latinos and communities of color at large. Our nation’s affordable housing and rental assistance programs help more than five million low-income households—the great majority of whom are seniors, people with disabilities, and working families—afford decent, stable housing.[1] Research shows that rental assistance is highly effective at reducing homelessness and housing instability—benefits that are linked to long-term improvements in outcomes, particularly for children.[2] The Making Affordable Housing Work Act requires low-income families participating in federal housing assistance programs to pay an even greater share of their income on rent--imposing rent increases from 30 percent of a tenant’s adjusted monthly income to 35 percent of gross income. Moreover, the proposal increases rents for households with high medical or child care expenses by eliminating the income deductions for these expenditures. Latinos participating in our nation’s affordable housing programs will derive no greater benefit from raising monthly rents or reducing income deductions. In fact, if enacted, the proposal will have the exact opposite effect. The proposition of raising monthly rents to 35 percent of gross income from 30 percent of adjusted income will force Latino and Hispanic families to take already limited money away from other important household expenditures like educational attainment, health and child care, food, and investment in career advancement. When push comes to shove, increasing tenants’ monthly rent burden will inevitably lead to non-payment or delinquency that will turn the most vulnerable members of the Latino and Hispanic community towards eviction and homelessness. Equally egregious and dangerous, the Making Affordable Housing Work Act triples the monthly minimum rent from $50 per month to at least $150 per month. Tripling the minimum monthly rent that individuals and families are required to pay to participate in federally assisted housing programs would affect our nation’s poorest individuals and families, raising rents on approximately 1.7 million people, including 970,000 children.[3] According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the typical household affected by this increase is a mother with two children with an annual income of $2,400—just $200 per month. After paying rent under this proposal, the family would have only $50 for necessities like clothing, personal items, diapers, school supplies, and other expenses that are not met by other assistance.[4] As members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, we have not been disabused of our assessment that the Administration’s proposal would be harmful to the Latino community. It would not lead to second chances for those members of the Latino community who are low-wage employees, working part-time for economic reasons, or who are unemployed or marginally attached to the workforce and continue to search for affordable and stable housing, particularly in the wake of the Great Recession which disproportionately impacted Latino, African American and other communities of color.[5] Instead of taking away housing benefits, we should enact proven solutions to help struggling families get ahead. We, the undersigned members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, urge HUD to work in concert with us towards solutions that will be constructive for the Latino and Hispanic communities we represent. We see this as a cooperative effort that should begin with: • Implementing the bipartisan reforms included in the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act that encourage work among families receiving housing assistance; • Strengthening and expanding voluntary programs like the Family Self Sufficiency program which provides educational training, vocational resources, job skills, and financial incentives to help families meet their individual goals and get ahead; and • Reforming and strengthening the Section 3 program which provides an opportunity to promote job training and hiring among people receiving housing benefits. While we have grave concerns with the Making Affordable Housing Work Act and its impact on the Hispanic and Latino community, we look forward to working with you to implement the aforementioned policies that will help Latino individuals and families afford decent, stable housing, earn more, and get ahead. Sincerely, ###
06.01.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of LGBTQ Pride Month 2018: “Every June, our nation pays homage to the struggles and triumphs that have defined LGBTQ history in America. Our nation was founded on the promise of equal rights for all under the law. Thanks to the tireless and courageous efforts of activists and leaders, we have made numerous strides towards expanding fundamental protections to LGBTQ individuals. “However, the Trump Administration’s continued hostility towards the LGBTQ community threatens to reverse this progress and take us back to darker days. With the passage of so-called ‘Bathroom Bills’ and Trump’s ban on transgender servicemembers, it is clear that we all must redouble our commitment to all Americans’ rights. “In Congress, I will continue to champion the Equality Act, which would extend many provisions from the Civil Rights Act to LGBTQ people. New Yorkers maintain a proud history of acceptance and celebration of one another’s differences. This Pride Month, let us not forget that we all have a role to play in ensuring that our society grants every person, regardless of who they are or whom they love, equality under the law.” ###
05.30.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written to the head of the Federal Trade Commission calling on the agency to address a pervasive and ongoing identity scam that is targeting residents of New York City’s Chinatowns in Brooklyn and New York. Over the past several months, scammers have been using robocalls to impersonate the Chinese Consulate General, probing residents for personal and financial information. According to the New York City Police Department, since December, an estimated $3 million has been stolen from New York City residents, with victims losing between $1,800 and $1.4 million each. “Members of our community must be aware of this scam, which targets immigrants and other vulnerable populations for exploitation,” Velázquez said. “For my part, I am working to ensure the Federal Trade Commission is providing adequate focus and resources toward preventing these scams.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. May 29, 2018 The Honorable Joseph J. Simons Chairman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20580 Dear Chairman Simons: As the Member of Congress representing two of New York City’s Chinatowns in Brooklyn and Manhattan, I write to express deep concerns over what has become known as the “Chinese Consulate Scam.” Over the past several months, local residents have received robocalls in Mandarin from scammers impersonating the Chinese Consulate General. The scammers tell their victims that they must pick up a package at the local Consulate General Office, or that they are a person of interest in a potential criminal investigation. If the victim follows the provided prompts on the voice message, they will be redirected to the scammer, who will then ask for personal and financial information. There have been numerous media reports about the extent of this scam, which has targeted cities across the United States with significant Chinese speaking populations. According to the New York Police Department, an estimated $3 million has already been stolen from residents of New York City alone since December, with victims losing between $1,800 and $1.4 million each.[1],[2] I applaud the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for being proactive on this issue and informing the public by providing access to information via its consumer webpage in both English and Chinese.[3] The FTC, in its public notice, encourages consumers to hang up or delete the number and to report the call to the agency. The same notice later encourages consumers to contact the local Chinese Consulate General or Embassy and warns consumers about other potential scams sent via e-mail or WeChat.[4] Despite the guidance furnished by your agency, the problem continues to impact members of our local Chinese community. Taking into consideration your agency’s current efforts, I respectfully request answers to the following questions: 1. How many Chinese Consulate General/Embassy scams have been reported to the FTC? Has your agency noted any trends or patterns based on current consumer complaint reports? a. How have these trends of patterns varied, if at all, since the date of your agency’s publication of public notice? Have the number of reported complaints increased? 2. Your agency provides a button throughout its webpages that include the phrase: “Vea esta página en español.” Yet, a similar button is not provided in Chinese. While it is understood that this button allows for translation of all FTC-based pages to Spanish, can you comment as to why such a button is not available, for the purposes of informing consumers about scams, in Chinese? a. As part of your answer to this question, please comment on the accessibility of the current hyperlink on the English version of the scam description’s webpage that leads consumers to the Chinese version of your notice. Is there a reason why the hyperlink’s text on this page is not written out in Chinese characters? 3. Can you describe, in general, your efforts on informing Chinese-speaking consumers about this and other consumer scams? a. As part of your answer to this question, please describe current FTC efforts that engage with Chinese speakers on alternative platforms that do not use the internet. In general, both Chinatowns in New York’s 7th Congressional District are in areas that have previously been identified as having a decrease or negligible change in the total number of households with broadband access.[5] In fact, the Mayor’s Office of the Chief Technology Officer notes that “Spanish and Chinese [speakers] tend to have lower home broadband access than those who speak English and Russian.”[6] Would your agency—in collaboration with relevant local and/or state agencies—be willing to provide a presentation in Chinese in a public forum for the community to attend? 4. Some materials available online from the Pass It On campaign would likely provide a vehicle to empower consumers against scammers. Yet, there are no materials available in Chinese.[7] Some hyperlinks of the Spanish version of the campaign are also unavailable.[8] Is there a reason why these materials are currently limited to English? When will current Spanish materials be accessible? What is your agency’s plan to make such materials available to Chinese speakers? I want to thank you for looking into our community’s concerns and look forward to working with your agency in addressing consumer fraud concerns that are impacting my constituents and the public. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress cc: Barbara D. Underwood, Attorney General, New York State James P. O’Neill, Police Commissioner, New York Police Department 謹供參考： 聯絡： Alex Haurek (Velázquez) 2018年5月30日 202-225-2361 維樂貴絲敦促當局嚴打“中國領事館詐騙”黑客 【首府華盛頓訊】聯邦眾議員維樂貴絲（Nydia M. Velázquez，紐約州民主黨）近日去函聯邦貿易委員會，指出曼哈頓與布碌崙的華人社區成為身份詐騙集團目標，騙案持續發生而且越見普遍，敦促當局嚴正處理。 在過去幾個月中，騙徒一直利用電話錄音冒充中國總領事館人員，誘騙華人民眾提供個人和財務信息。根據紐約市警察局稱，自去年12月以來，紐約市居民合共被騙約300萬元，受害者普遍損失1800至140萬元。 “這些騙案以移民和其他弱勢群體為目標，我們社區的居民必須保持警惕，”維樂貴絲說。“而我也正在努力與當局溝通，確保聯邦貿易委員會重視此事及提供足夠的資源，防止這些詐騙繼續出現。” 全文如下。 請點擊此處獲得PDF檔案。 2018年5月29日 聯邦貿易委員會主席 約瑟夫西蒙斯閣下 (The Honorable Joseph J. Simons) 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20580 尊敬的西蒙斯主席： 作為代表紐約市布碌崙和曼哈頓兩個華人社區的國會議員，本人特此致函貴機構以對近期所謂的“中領館騙案”表達深切擔憂。在過去幾個月裡，本地居民經常收到普通話發音的錄音來電。匪徒假扮中國總領事館職員，並誐稱受害者必須到當地中國總領事館領取一個郵包，或者他們正牽涉一件刑事案件調查之中。如果受害者按照錄音系統的指示按鍵，電話便會被接通與騙徒直接對話，藉此誘騙受害者提供個人和財務信息。 眾多媒體均有報導此類騙局的嚴重程度，甚及已經蔓延至美國其他有大量華人聚居的城市。據紐約市警察總局稱，自去年12月以來，紐約市居民合共被騙約300萬元，受害者普遍損失1800至140萬元。 聯邦貿易委員會積極主動地處理此事，並通過消費者網頁發佈中英文信息來警惕公眾，本人甚感欣慰。聯邦貿易委員會在通告中建議消費者接到此類詐騙電話時應立即掛斷或刪除號碼，並向該機構報告。通告還建議消費者聯繫當地的中國領事館或大使館，及提醒民眾騙徒可能會通過電子郵件或微信進行其他類型的詐騙。 儘管貴機構已經提供了防騙指南，但問題仍然持續威脅我們華人社區居民的安全。就貴機構目前進行的防騙宣傳工作，請您回答以下問題： 1. 迄今為止，聯邦貿易委員會已經收到多少個中領館╱大使館詐騙報案？貴機構是否能夠根據目前的報案紀錄，得出任何趨勢或模式？ a. 在貴機構發佈通告之後，這些騙局的模式或趨勢是否有任何變化？民眾的報案數量有否增加？ 2. 貴機構網站的各網頁都有一個按鍵，上面寫著“Vea esta página en español”（以西班牙語瀏覽此頁）字眼。但是，網頁上卻沒有提供類似的中文按鍵。我們明白民眾可以點擊該按鍵以將聯邦貿易委員會網頁內容翻譯成為西班牙語，但為何貴機構沒有提供中文按鍵，讓消費者能夠使用中文獲悉騙案資訊？ a. 就以上問題，您認為貴機構英文版本詐騙網頁之鏈結接到中文通告方便使用嗎？為何此網頁的超鏈結沒有使用中文顯示？ 3. 請您概述貴機構是如何向華語消費者宣傳此類騙案的信息及其他方面的消費者詐騙行為？ a. 就以上問題，並請描述聯邦貿易委員會針對不使用互聯網之華語民眾，有否任何其他平台與他們溝通。因為根據過往統計，紐約第7國會選區的華人聚居地擁有寬頻的家庭總數正在減少甚至有缺乏情況。事實上，紐約市長辦公室的首席科技官也指出，“西班牙語和華語家庭擁有寬頻的家庭數量比說英語和俄語人口要低。”貴機構是否願意與相關的市及╱或州機構合作，在本地舉行中文講座，讓社區居民參與？ 4. 除此之外，“Pass It On”宣傳運動中有些資料可以上網下載，並幫助消費者防禦騙徒。然而，該些材料並沒有中文版本。該宣傳運動的一些西班牙語版本鏈結同樣久奉。請問為何這些材料目前僅限於英語提供？貴機構何時將提供西班牙語版本的材料？又有何計劃向華語民眾提供這些資料？ 最後，容我感謝您對這些社區議題的關切，並期待與貴機構攜手合作解決消費者欺詐罪行，以使我選區的居民和公眾回復安寧。 誠摯的，, 聯邦眾議員 維樂貴絲 副本抄送： 紐約州檢察長Barbara D. Underwood 紐約市警總局長James P. O’Neill ###
05.29.2018	Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on a new analysis by Harvard University that suggests the death toll from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico could exceed 4,000 people: “By undercounting fatalities, the true impact of Maria was concealed. By obscuring this, many were left to believe the Trump Administration’s mythology that Puerto Rico was not hit hard by Maria. Now, we are seeing further evidence of what many of us have long maintained – that Maria was an epic disaster. If these estimates are accurate, they would mean Maria’s devastation ranks among the most deadly disasters in U.S. history. “We must get to the bottom of this discrepancy. In December of last year, amid widespread concern that the Government of Puerto Rico had vastly undercounted the death toll from Maria, Ranking Member Thompson and I requested that the Government Accountability Office review the official death count in Puerto Rico. I continue working with GAO in asking the agency to determine how the Commonwealth’s government originally arrived at such a low number. “After the Trump Administration’s woefully inadequate response, Puerto Rico continues to face a long, difficult path to recovery – one that these new death estimates underscore. Congress and all federal agencies need an accurate accounting of the scope of the devastation to direct adequate resources for recovery. And now, with the 2018 hurricane season upon us, we must take immediate steps to ensure that life-saving medical resources are available throughout the Island.” # # #
05.24.2018	Measures Incorporated into Larger Defense Package Washington, DC – As part of the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, the U.S. House of Representatives today approved three amendments authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). The Velázquez-authored provisions will help businesses in Puerto Rico by incentivizing federal agencies to award them contracts, focus federal resources on environmental problems in Vieques and help New York businesses that are looking to transition into employee ownership. “I’m honored that my colleagues have seen fit to encourage these measures in the broader package,” Velázquez noted. “These are provisions that will help more New York small businesses become employee-owned enterprises or cooperatives. They will help fuel Puerto Rico’s physical and economic recovery and they will paint a clear picture of how the Navy’s presence in Vieques impacted the health of its residents. I’m pleased to have secured bipartisan support of my colleagues and see them passed.” Empowering Employees and Boosting Cooperatives Today, the House passed Velázquez’s amendment to expand opportunities for employees to own a stake in the company they work for by transitioning to an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) or a cooperative (co-op). ESOPs and co-ops have a proven track record of success, with companies that transition to the employee-ownership model seeing an increase in productivity by 4 to 5 percent. In addition, workers employed by these entities have higher wages on average and greater household wealth. Velázquez’s amendment would improve access to capital and technical assistance to transition small businesses to employee ownership, helping to save jobs and financially empower employees. Among other changes, the amendment would make it easier for small firms to utilize the Small Business Administration’s 7(a) program to finance their transition to employee-owned models. Velázquez’s amendment was further prompted by the success of local employee-owned co-operatives in her home district of New York City. A companion bill has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). “I am pleased to join forces with Senator Gillibrand to expand opportunities in a growing and exciting sector of the small business economy—employee owned businesses,” said Velázquez. “In New York City, a surge in employee-owned co-operatives has prompted residents to shop locally and engage with their communities. I am pleased that this bill has passed in the House and I encourage the Senate to take swift action to move it forward.” “I am pleased that under Congresswoman Velázquez’s leadership, this legislation has passed in the House of Representatives and has now been included in the House version of the NDAA, which means we are one step closer to getting this bill signed into law. Too many hardworking New Yorkers are still struggling to get jobs that pay them enough to take care of their families and save for retirement, and this legislation would help companies reward work without sacrificing profit,” said Senator Gillibrand (D-NY). “Employee-owned businesses have a strong track record of better pay and retirement benefits for workers and a commitment to creating local jobs. I have been proud to work with Congresswoman Velázquez on companion legislation in the Senate and will continue to fight as hard as I can to for the investments needed to support employee ownership in New York and around the country.” Creating Economic Opportunity in Puerto Rico Velázquez also successfully included in the NDAA her legislation that would allow agencies to count double toward their small business contracting bill, contract dollars spent in Puerto Rico. The bill will therefore incentivize federal agencies to employ Puerto Rican businesses, helping create jobs on the hurricane-ravaged island. “With Puerto Rico still facing economic woes and a long path to recovery, this legislation would direct sorely needed federal dollars to employ local small firms, creating badly needed jobs along the way,” said Velázquez. “We owe it to our fellow American citizens on the Island to take every possible step towards rebuilding a more resilient Puerto Rico, and this bill is a much-needed step in the right direction.” Currently, a small number of federal contracts are performed in Puerto Rico with the Island ranking 50th out of 56, in comparison to all U.S. states and territories. Between Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015 the total awards of federal contracts to Puerto Rican small businesses declined by nearly $85 million. “Federal procurement policy can be a powerful tool for stimulating local growth and, right now, Puerto Rico needs all the help it can get,” Velázquez noted. “If enacted, these provisions would spur federal agencies to contract with Puerto Rican companies, creating badly needed local jobs.” Progress for Vieques A third Velázquez amendment would require a government report on the long-troubled Puerto Rican Island of Vieques, which for years housed a U.S. military bombing range. Velázquez’s amendment would commission the Government Accountability Office to study the immediate, long-term, and latent health effects of the live-fire training at Vieques Naval Training Range conducted by the Navy before 2002, as well as other activities of the U.S. Armed Forces on the Island of Vieques. “The federal government has a responsibility for the health effects caused by the pollution stemming from military exercises conducted there,” Velázquez said. “By requiring an extensive, unbiased, official analysis of how residents of the Island have been affected, this amendment can help us take an important step toward justice.” # # #
05.23.2018	Strengthen their Call that Education Disaster Relief Process is Unfair to Island Lawmakers Press Secretary DeVos to Explain Why Institutions Close Ties to the Trump Administration Have Received Federal Disaster Funding but Failed to Provide Data on the Number of Displaced Students Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) led 38 Members of Congress in writing to the U.S. Department of Education arguing that the agency’s process for distributing disaster relief funds is unfair and overly burdensome for institutions of higher education in Puerto Rico. On April 6th, the lawmakers sent a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, laying out their concerns over a process that has failed to deliver adequate relief to higher education institutions on the Island. After receiving a dismissive response from the agency, the lawmakers chose to write again today to Secretary DeVos, probing her department a second time for answers “We also have serious concerns that this application process will re-direct disaster relief funding away from where it is needed most,” wrote the lawmakers. “By moving forward with this unfair and unduly burdensome process after hearing broad public outcry in opposition, the Department shows a deliberate and callous disregard for the calamity the people of Puerto Rico have dealt with since the storms, and accordingly, the Department must reverse course immediately.” Despite the devastation inflicted on Puerto Rico from Maria, just $8.9 million of the $41 million in federal education disaster aid has gone to higher education institutes on the Island. In 2018, Congress granted Secretary DeVos the authority to distribute the Department’s disaster relief funds. However, DeVos adopted an application process that lawmakers argue fails to consider the practical reality of an Island still plagued by structural damage, power loss and other challenges. Furthermore, DeVos’ process breaks with the federal response to the similar-scale disasters of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. In this week’s letter, the lawmakers pressed DeVos to explain why institutions like Liberty University and Grand Canyon University, two institutions with reportedly close ties to the Trump Administration, have received federal disaster funding, yet have failed to provide data on the number of displaced students they have enrolled due to Maria. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, including all signatories, click here. May 23, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave, SW Washington, DC 20202 Re: Docket ID number ED-2018-ICCD-0028 Secretary DeVos: As Members of Congress, we are incredibly disappointed to learn that the U.S. Department of Education (“Department”) has disregarded public input on the process for helping institutes of higher education (“IHEs”) obtain disaster relief funds and recover from the 2017 hurricanes and wildfires. We have carefully reviewed the Department’s May 1 response letter (the “May 1 response”), and find it inadequate and deficient. In particular, the Department has ignored significant concerns about the ability of IHEs in Puerto Rico to access this urgently-needed aid, while IHEs are still struggling to recover from Hurricanes Irma and Maria. By moving forward with this unfair and unduly burdensome process after hearing broad public outcry in opposition, the Department shows a deliberate and callous disregard for the calamity the people of Puerto Rico have dealt with since the storms, and accordingly, the Department must reverse course immediately. Public comments from IHEs in Puerto Rico, non-profit organizations, and Members of Congress, all indicated that the Department’s unnecessary hurdles for IHEs to access disaster funding provided by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 would create substantial challenges and ultimately harm students and families.[1] In fact, out of the 26 public comments submitted, not a single one supports the overly complicated forms and unduly burdensome process as developed by the Department. Nevertheless, the Department is proceeding without any substantive changes to this process or corresponding forms. The result is a marked departure from the Department’s precedent.[2] For submissions in the case of Hurricane Maria, the Department is not awarding any funds automatically, as was done for systems of higher education following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. In response to those disasters, Congress appropriated $190 million in combined funding for the Louisiana Board of Regents and Mississippi Institutions of Higher Learning to provide direct disaster assistance, none of which required an application. In total, 70 percent of the funds disbursed in the wake of those hurricanes were disbursed without the need for an application.[3] We believe the application and disbursement process for the 2017 disasters must mirror the mechanisms used in response to the 2005 disasters, not 2008. The May 1 response states that “[t]he Department’s process for making allotments will closely follow the process used in 2009 after the natural disasters in 2008.” This position ignores the fact that the 2017 hurricane season was the costliest in U.S. history, with the 2005 hurricane season ranking as the second-costliest.[4] In fact, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”), the 2017 hurricane season caused $309.5 billion in damages, and the 2005 hurricane season caused $ 219.2 billion in damages, while the damages from the 2008 season were well short of $100 billion.[5] This unjustified departure in the face of publicly-available data showing the need to adopt a fairer process is alarming. These facts support the idea that the process used following the 2017 hurricane season should be just as focused on the affected areas as the post-2005 process, if not more so. Accordingly, the Department’s process for making allotments must closely follow the process used in 2005, not 2009. Moreover, the Department insists on maintaining a bifurcated, form-based approach with a separate “pre-application” and “full application” for IHEs located in affected areas to receive emergency assistance. Meanwhile, the funding provided to IHEs to defray the costs of enrolling displaced students does not similarly require a “pre-application.” Many of us raised this concern in our previous letter dated April 5, 2018 (the “April 5 letter”), and received no justification from the Department, in the May 1 response or otherwise, as to why IHEs located in disaster areas (and thus suffered greater damage) should be forced through an unjustifiably and disproportionately burdensome process relative to IHEs that experienced no damage at all. In addition, the Department’s own estimates state that each IHE will spend an average of 40 hours completing an application for relief. This is precious time Puerto Rico’s IHEs cannot afford to expend on anything but helping their students, families, and communities get back on their feet. To make matters worse, the forms also disregard our previously-requested improvements that would have made this process significantly less burdensome, and are still unavailable in Spanish. The Department’s lack of responsiveness to these real and urgent concerns is both highly disappointing and unprecedented. Furthermore, the Department has not indicated that it will provide any direct assistance to IHEs in disaster-stricken areas that may lack consistent, reliable Internet access, electricity generation and supply, and functioning technology. We understand from the May 1 response that the Department may accept late applications to account for IHEs with “special needs.” While we appreciate this modicum of leniency, we must remind the Department that this approach is underserving of the needs of Puerto Rico’s IHEs. Applicants for disaster relief are directed to download applications available exclusively online, and all background information refers applicants and interested parties to web addresses. By deliberately proceeding in this fashion, the Department has shown its failure to recognize that Puerto Rico has experienced the second-largest power blackout in world history,[6] and that just weeks ago (almost seven months removed from Hurricane Maria), Puerto Rico again faced an Island-wide power outage that left approximately 870,000 people without electricity.[7] As we raised in the April 5 letter, the Department had a menu of alternatives available for designing a process of disbursing disaster aid. The Department could have either automatically awarded relief funds in a targeted manner using metrics of student and family need, made major changes to the application process and forms to streamline the process, or ideally, both. Given the multitude and diversity of options for improving the application process, the Department must re-examine its currently-proposed process and its effectiveness for Puerto Rico’s IHEs. We also have serious concerns that this application process will re-direct disaster relief funding away from where it is needed most. The Department has failed to prioritize relief and target aid to where it is most needed, resulting in just one-fifth of all reallocated campus-based aid going to Puerto Rico.[8] In fact, two of the largest individual recipients of disaster aid in a previous round of assistance were Grand Canyon University and Liberty University, neither of which could indicate how many affected students they had enrolled with federal funds for displaced students since Hurricane Maria.[9] This is simply not an effective use of federal funds. Accordingly, the Department must ensure that taxpayer-funded disaster relief is flowing to students and communities with the most significant needs. The Department’s announcement of April 30, 2018 (the “April 30 announcement”) regarding federal assistance under the Immediate Aid to Restart School Operations (“K-12 Restart”) Program highlights the Department’s inconsistent approach towards aid for Puerto Rico.[10] Of the approximately $693 million available under K-12 Restart, approximately $589 million was awarded to the Puerto Rico Department of Education (“PRDE”). While we are grateful for this support, we also consider it a tacit admission by the Department of the severity of the situation Puerto Rico has been facing. Furthermore, Madame Secretary, you are even quoted in the announcement as saying: As communities get back on their feet in disaster affected regions, we continue to support them in every way we can. This additional funding will ensure students, teachers and staff have ongoing access to the services they need to fully recover and rebuild.[11] In response, we must stress that the plight is no less severe for IHEs in Puerto Rico, and implore you to take the same approach for them. Accordingly, the Department must amend this application process and the corresponding forms so that the proportion of aid received by IHEs in Puerto Rico compared to the total available roughly matches the proportion received by PRDE. Finally, the April 5 letter was intended to express our concerns regarding the process by which IHEs in disaster areas apply for and access disaster relief funds, but also to open a dialogue between Congress and the Department about how to optimize the process. Unfortunately, the signers of the April 5 letter have received a response that only doubles down on the Department’s nonresponsive approach to the IHEs in Puerto Rico. Instead, the Department completely disregarded the input of 37 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 9 U.S. Senators, as well as countless other stakeholders, and moved forward with this process without adopting a single recommendation or modifying any part of the process. Accordingly, we are compelled to direct the following interrogatories and requests for documents to you, and respectfully request an official response from your office within 30 days: 1. In the April 5 letter, we expressed deep concerns about the bifurcated and overly burdensome application process the Department created and adopted to disburse funding to IHEs affected by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. What is the Department’s justification for the use of this application process, when recent history of natural disaster emergency aid disbursement has not required such a process? 2. In the April 5 letter, we encouraged the Department to conduct thorough outreach efforts to help provide necessary information about relief funding to IHEs affected in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Additionally, we implored you to provide forms and other information regarding this process in Puerto Rico’s dominant language, Spanish. a. To date, what outreach has the Department conducted to ensure local entities and stakeholders have been notified of this funding? b. Are any of the forms or information for this process available in Spanish? c. Please provide all outreach materials used by the Department to inform local entities about this funding. 3. According to a May 1 New York Times article,[12] many universities who enrolled students affected by these natural disasters received funding to help defray the costs associated with doing so. However, the article points out that several of the IHEs that were awarded large amounts of funding, such as Liberty University (Virginia) and Grand Canyon University (Arizona), have not disclosed how many affected students they have enrolled with federal funds for displaced students since Hurricane Maria. What specific formulas or methodologies were used by the Department under the campus-based aid reallocation authority of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria Education Relief Act of 2017? For each metric used in the formula, please provide the score or weight of each IHE, including the number of affected students served. 4. The April 30 announcement of $693 million in emergency aid funding for primary and secondary schools included that the vast majority ($589 million) would go to Puerto Rico and PRDE. This announcement is an implicit admission by the Department of the uniquely severe devastation facing Puerto Rico post-Maria, and accordingly, the acute need for aid to Puerto Rico’s IHEs. Why is there such a vast disparity in disaster aid funding for IHEs in Puerto Rico compared to the K-12 schools and PRDE? 5. The May 1 response states: “[t]he Department’s process for making allotments will closely follow the process used in 2009 after the natural disasters in 2008.” NOAA data shows that the top two costliest hurricane seasons were 2017 ($309.5 billion) and 2005 ($219.2 billion).[13] Meanwhile, the 2008 hurricane season caused less than $100 billion in damage. Furthermore, the extent and nature of the damage wrought in 2017 (widespread infrastructure and power grid damage) closely mirrors that from 2005. In fact, following the 2017 hurricane season, Puerto Rico faced (and continues facing) the second-largest blackout in world history.[14] Why was the methodology used in 2009 following the 2008 hurricane season selected as a model for disbursement/allotments following the 2017 hurricane season, instead of the methodology used following the 2005 hurricane season? 6. The May 1 response states: “[t]hat process [for making allotments], which included the review of a pre-application and an application in allotting funds, remains available for public view at www2.ed.gov/programs/disaster-relief/applicant.html.” By making the forms and process available exclusively over the Internet, the Department ignores the reality of daily life for Puerto Ricans since Maria: lack of reliable power, Internet access, functional technology infrastructure, or even most basic human necessities. Why is the Department advancing an Internet-only process, instead of also using additional methods of transmitting the paperwork and information? 7. The May 1 response states: “[t]he Department’s plan to mitigate improper payments is further warranted by the fact that many eligible institutions have been classified as ‘high risk’ by the Department. The institutions so classified include at least 10 institutions in the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico as well as institutions in the affected States.” a. Why has the Department chosen to emphasize the mitigation of improper payments over delivering desperately-needed relief as quickly as possible? b. What factors were considered by the Department in making the low, medium, and high-risk classifications? c. Please provide a full list of all IHEs in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands that the Department has classified based on its level of risk (low-risk, medium-risk, or high-risk), and the level of risk assigned to each IHE. The 2018 Atlantic hurricane season begins in less than one month, and by all accounts, Puerto Rico is not ready. Puerto Rico, and the millions of American citizens living there, simply cannot wait any longer for the federal government to finally prioritize their long-ignored, dire needs. At such a critical time for Puerto Rico, the federal government should be doing all it can to enhance Puerto Rico’s preparedness and readiness for the 2018 hurricane season. Instead, the Department’s callous silence in response to these real and urgent concerns is remarkably frightening, and is yet another example of the Trump administration’s failure to recognize Puerto Rico’s plight. The Department must ensure Puerto Rico’s IHEs, in addition to the K-12 schools, have the financial support they need to fully rebuild and recover from the storms, restore normal operating order, and resume their mission of educating the next generation of Puerto Ricans. Unfortunately, by insisting on proceeding in this fashion, the Department is failing to live up to that charge. However, it could (and as we argue, must) reverse course, and do the right thing for Puerto Rico, by heeding these concerns immediately and instituting a fair process for the IHEs on the Island to apply for and access disaster aid funding. We look forward to your timely response to this correspondence, as well as to the interrogatories and requests for documents contained therein, within 30 days. ###
05.23.2018	Requests Public Hearings, Extension of Public Comment Period Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written to Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Carson calling for greater public input and transparency in the allocation of Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBGR) funds. In her letter, Velázquez notes that HUD’s current two-week timeframe for public comment on the agency’s plan for use of this funding would be insufficient to ensure robust community input. “Decisions about how Puerto Rico is rebuilt and made more resilient must be driven by the people who live there, not by Washington,” Velázquez noted. “I am calling on HUD to adopt a transparent and democratic process as it disburses federal funds for the rebuilding effort.” Velázquez’s letter specifically requests a 30-day extension for the public comment window; hearings to be held throughout the Island; and that all CDBG-DR information be made available in Spanish. While some previous hearings have been held, many have noted that they were only attended by elected officials and there was scant participation by the general public. HUD has awarded $18.5 billion to support long-term disaster recovery in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. The letter was also signed by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. May 22, 2018 The Honorable Dr. Benjamin Carson Sr. Secretary Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: I write to express my strong concern over the brief two-week timeframe for public comment of the Draft Puerto Rico Disaster Recovery Action Plan for the use of Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (“CDBG-DR”) funds. Accordingly, I am requesting: 1) a 30-day extension of the public comment period; 2) public hearings from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); and 3) official translations of the Allocation Notice and of all other information regarding the CDBG-DR funds. Given the importance of CDBG-DR funds for Puerto Rico’s rebuilding from Hurricane Maria, it is imperative that requests from stakeholders on the Island be given your full and fair consideration. A 30-day extension of the public comment period would provide communities and grassroots organizations time to review and consider the draft plan, evaluate their housing and infrastructure needs, and offer meaningful commentary. Moreover, by holding multiple public hearings across the Island, HUD, the local housing department, and other decisionmakers would be operating and making public policy with a comprehensive perspective. Lastly, given the overwhelming predominance of Spanish as the language of Puerto Rico, it is imperative that the Allocation Notice and other CDBG-DR information be officially translated into Spanish to ensure that information is effectively communicated to residents of Puerto Rico. Taken together, making the above improvements to the CDBG-DR process would foster a more open and inclusive process that would incorporate the input of underrepresented communities and their unmet needs. All decisionmakers share a responsibility to ensure that resources are used fairly, efficiently, and effectively, with a degree of accountability and transparency that establishes public confidence in regard to government spending, post-recovery planning, and the overall reconstruction of Puerto Rico. Accordingly, I strongly urge you to make the above improvements to the CDBG-DR process. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Luis V Gutiérrez Raúl M. Grijalva Adriano Espaillat ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on S.2155, a bill that would roll back many elements of the Dodd-Frank Act. While Velázquez opposes S.2155 overall, she noted she was pleased the bill includes her legislation, the U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act. The U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act would extend key protections of the Investment Company Act of 1940 to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico and all U.S. territories. Some entities in Puerto Rico have used a loophole in the current law to act as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, while simultaneously repackaging those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. Although this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to an exemption in the 1940 Company Act, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland as a conflict of interest. Velázquez introduced her bill to close this loophole in 2015 and has been pushing for its enactment ever since. Her full statement is below. “I was closely involved when Congress crafted the Dodd-Frank Act, which has brought needed accountability to financial institutions and protected our economy and consumers against unfair and unsound practices and products. “The bill being debated in the House today will undermine many of these protections. Notably, it takes aim at provisions that prevent discrimination against minorities in mortgage lending markets. By raising the threshold for what is considered systemically important from $50 billion in assets to $250 billion, the bill lets 25 of the nation’s largest banks escape necessary regulatory oversight and monitoring. On balance, these are poor choices that, in my view, heighten the risk of improper financial activities similar to those that precipitated 2008 financial crisis. I will vote no. “It is a somewhat ironic, but positive, silver lining that S.2155, which I cannot support, contains provisions I personally authored to prevent the residents of Puerto Rico from being preyed on by unscrupulous actors. This bill will put Puerto Rico’s mutual fund industry in regulatory parity with the Mainland and, at last, bring to an end decades of exploitation of Puerto Rican investors. I am heartened, at least, that by passing my legislation, as part of this larger package, we will no longer hear of the people of Puerto Rico being swindled out of their nest egg due to an antiquated loophole in federal investment law. “Going forward, I will seek to reverse the negative components of S.2155. We must not go back to the bad old days when inadequate regulations meant consumer exploitation and unsound speculation.” ###
05.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the “K2” overdoses that occurred this weekend in Brooklyn: “This weekend provided another tragic reminder of the dangers K2 and synthetic marijuana pose to our community. That’s why last year I introduced legislation that deploys federal resources to educate the public on the harms of these substances and focuses on at-risk populations. I will continue pushing for this legislation’s movement. In the meantime, I join local officials who are calling on NYPD to more effectively combat this threat. In coming days, I will be reaching out to local DEA officials, directly, to see how additional resources can be leveraged to battle the scourge of K2 in Brooklyn.” Velázquez’s bill, the “Synthetic Drug Prevention, Treatment and Education Act,” H.R. 2900, authorizes the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention (CDC) to make grants up to $250,000 in aggregate of $5 million over the next two years to qualified health centers to work on public awareness campaigns within local communities. The bill also requires multiple federal agencies including the Drug Enforcement Agency and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to develop a national outreach campaign that will educate law enforcement, local and state agencies and healthcare providers about synthetic drugs. # # #
05.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today after the House voted down the GOP Farm Bill: “SNAP helps over 41 million individuals across the country put food on the table. In my district alone, 65,672 households count on SNAP benefits for nutritional help. This heartless bill would have punished seniors and working families and deprived children of school meals. For these reasons, I voted ‘no.’ “This bill’s failure to pass the House ought to serve as a wake up call for Republicans who were willing to abandon bipartisanship to advance their radical cuts to our social safety net. Congress must return to its history of crafting a bipartisan and robust Farm Bill that puts hardworking families first.” ###
05.15.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of the start of Ramadan. “I send best wishes of peace and renewal for all those observing Ramadan in New York City and around the world. During this time of reflection, let us all recommit to the values of religious freedom and inclusion. To my neighbors and all those who are celebrating around the world, Ramadan Mubarak.” # # #
05.15.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Manhattan and Brooklyn District Attorneys will no longer prosecute marijuana offenses: “Recent media reports and analyses have laid bare what many in our communities have known for some time: namely, if you are a person of color, you are much more likely to be arrested for low-level marijuana offenses. For so many young people, this unfair treatment can be their first exposure to the law enforcement system and mean long term consequences, like missing school or work or a criminal record. “These recent announcements are a welcome step. I also call on Mayor De Blasio and the NYPD to go further and see marijuana arrests drastically reduced. I also believe our state must begin taking legislative steps toward decriminalization. For too long, enforcement of these laws has disproportionately and negatively impacted people of color. That must end.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the announcement that the United States will leave the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on Iran: “This reckless decision will harm the United States’ interests and security and potentially bring Iran closer to developing nuclear weapons. The Trump Administration has signaled to the world that the United States cannot be taken at its word, undermining our nation’s credibility, reducing the U.S.’ leverage in future negotiations with Iran and diminishing our ability to engage with allies. I am also troubled by what message this decision sends to other nuclear weapons-seeking countries like North Korea. “I will continue working for peaceful solutions to prevent Iran from enriching uranium. In the meantime, I call on the President and the Administration to revisit this harmful decision.” # # #
05.04.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding news that the Department of Homeland Security will terminate Temporary Protected Status for Honduras: “The decision by the Trump Administration to end TPS for 57,000 Hondurans is further evidence of their intent to gut a program that helps some of our most vulnerable immigrant communities. “Since TPS was first designated for Hondurans fleeing natural disaster, economic turmoil and violence, it has been renewed by Democratic and Republican Administrations, alike. Today’s decision is not an isolated one. As a result of the Trump Administration’s series of decisions to terminate TPS, 310,540 recipients are losing their status. The terminations account for 98% of the total number of immigrants participating in the program, and who now face potential deportation. “Today’s decision is yet another coldhearted attempt by Donald Trump to attack immigrants, simply to appease an extreme, far-right political base. “We must thwart these efforts, which are an affront to our national values. To that end, I am working urgently with my colleagues and Congressional Leadership to push my bill, the American Promise Act, which would provide a path to naturalization for TPS recipients.” Velázquez is the author of the American Promise Act, legislation to provide TPS recipients with a path to naturalization. The bill has been officially endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and has 100 cosponsors. # # #
05.04.2018	Measure Would Fund Cleanup of Superfund Sites Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today announced new legislation to reinstate a tax on big oil and chemical companies to finance the cleanup of Superfund sites. In 1995, Congress let a tax on these companies expire, shifting the cost of Superfund cleanup at certain sites to taxpayers. Velázquez’s bill would reinstate the “Superfund tax” requiring industries that are most often linked to polluting these sites to pay for environmental remediation. “It is outrageous to require ordinary citizens to foot the bill while big corporations profit from polluting our neighborhoods,” said Velázquez. “By allowing the Superfund tax to expire, Republicans in Congress pandered to the oil and chemical industries, letting them off the hook for dumping toxic waste into our communities.” To earn Superfund status under the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a site must be contaminated by hazardous waste and classified as a risk to human and environmental health—labeling it a priority for cleanup. An “orphaned” site is a Superfund site without responsible available or able parties to pay for cleanup, and thus requires the federal government’s assistance. Until 1995, Congress placed the Superfund tax on big oil and chemical companies to raise funds for cleaning up orphaned sites, however since the tax was allowed to expire, the burden has fallen to the taxpayer. Since Congress failed to renew the tax, taxpayers have spent over $21 billion to clean up Superfund sites. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 5669, the Superfund Enhancement Act of 2018 would reinstate the Superfund tax and raise much needed revenue for toxic cleanup. Of over 1,300 federally designated Superfund sites, approximately half are orphaned sites. Velázquez’s district contains three Superfund sites: the Gowanus Canal; Newtown Creek; and the Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. “By establishing the Superfund program, the federal government made a pledge to improve the health and safety of our communities who have been plagued by toxic waste at the hands of reckless chemical companies,” said Velázquez. “In order to make serious strides in Superfund cleanup, we must raise adequate funding, and that starts by requiring big companies to pay their fair share.” As the Trump Administration moves to slash environmental protections, Velázquez stressed the urgency of reinstating the Superfund tax. In his 2019 budget proposal, President Trump sought to cut over $2.5 billion or over 23 percent of the annual budget of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “With their draconian budget cuts and regulatory rollbacks, the Trump Administration is the most dramatic threat to environmental protections in recent history,” said Velázquez. “Unless Congress acts, the cleanup of these sites will be kicked further down the road, leaving local families and business to continue to suffer.” In addition to reinstating the Superfund tax, Velázquez’s bill would allocate a tax deduction of up to $10,000 for local small businesses relocate from a Superfund site. The bill would also make these businesses as well as homeowners, tenants and residents living on or adjacent to a Superfund site, eligible for Disaster and Economic Injury loans under the Small Business Administration (SBA). “It is crucial that, in addition to funding Superfund cleanup, we support local businesses and community establishments,” said Velázquez. “To this point, my bill allocates more resources to help businesses located near a Superfund site.” The Superfund Enhancement Act of 2018 has been endorsed by major environmental organizations and local community groups, including: Alaska Wilderness League; Natural Resources Defense Council; League of Conservation Voters; Sierra Club; Friends of the Earth; Appalachian Voices; New York League of Conservation Voters; the Wilderness League; Gowanus Canal Superfund Community Advisory Group (CAG); Gowanus Alliance; Gowanus Canal Conservancy; Waterfront Alliance; New York Sun Works, Inc.; NYC H20; LESReady; UPROSE; Brooklyn Community Board 2, 6 and 7; and Manhattan Community Board 3. In addition, the bill has been co-sponsored by 16 Members of Congress. “Environmental crimes have been harming the health of our communities for decades, not just by poisoning public health, but by poisoning financial health too through the uprooting of small businesses occupying land polluted decades ago,” said Liz Perera, Climate Policy Director at the Sierra Club. “The Sierra Club applauds Representative Nydia Velázquez for her introduction of the Superfund Enhancement Act of 2018, which will hold big polluters accountable and help small businesses recover through equitable relocation solutions.” “Rep. Velázquez’s legislation provides needed support for innocent small businesses who suffer because of the mishandling of toxics by responsible parties,” said Scott Slesinger, Legislative Director at Natural Resources Defense Council. “Along with reinstituting the polluter pays tax, this bill will improve and speed up the clean-up of these toxic sites.” “The public health and economic consequences of Superfund site cleanups disproportionately affect low income communities and communities of color,” said League of Conservation Voters Legislative Representative Madeline Foote. “We are proud to endorse the Superfund Enhancement Act of 2018 because it would help ease the burden on small businesses in these communities caused by environmental disasters and would ensure that the oil and chemical industries start doing their part to finance the cleanup of these dangerous sites.” Velázquez, a top advocate for Superfund cleanup in Congress, recently urged the federal government to provide more funding for Superfund cleanup. Velázquez’s environmental record has earned her a 100% score on the League of Conservation Voters 2017 scorecard. This year, the Congresswoman joined the House Committee on Natural Resources where she will continue to advocate for urgent environmental priorities. ###
05.03.2018	Leads 47 Members of Congress, Says Lifeline Vital to Telecommunication for Puerto Ricans Washington, DC—This week, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 47 Members of Congress in writing to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai urging the commission to preserve the Lifeline program. Lifeline is a federal assistance program under the FCC that provides communications services to low-income consumers. In the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, nearly 20 percent of Puerto Rico’s population has relied on Lifeline for essential telecommunications services. However, under Chairman Pai recent proposal to rollback the program, 75 percent of existing customers in Puerto Rico would lose their telecommunications carrier. “Lifeline fills a critical gap in Puerto Rico, and given the devastation from Hurricane Maria, this program is now more important than ever,” lawmakers wrote in the letter. “After many communities endured widespread lack of communications post-Maria, they should not be forced to endure additional hardship. Continued, reliable access is essential for the Island’s economy to recover and to help stop the outmigration of the Island’s residents.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF with a list of signatories, click here. May 2, 2018 The Honorable Ajit V. Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: We write in strong support of the Federal Communications Commission’s Lifeline program, and to express opposition to your proposal to drastically reduce the program’s footprint in Puerto Rico. As you may know from your recent trips to the Island, Lifeline fills a critical gap in Puerto Rico, and given the devastation from Hurricane Maria, this program is now more important than ever. Nearly half of the residents in Puerto Rico fall under the federal poverty line, and thus, qualify for multiple federal assistance programs. Almost 20 percent of the Island’s population has relied on Lifeline in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria for essential communications services. In total, there are roughly 840,000 households in Puerto Rico that are eligible for Lifeline. The program also has a significant footprint within higher-need communities in Puerto Rico, with approximately 264,000 households with children, and approximately 38,000 veterans eligible for Lifeline. Another important lesson learned from the Hurricane’s aftermath is the value of the Lifeline program towards rendering emergency health care treatment. Given the significant damage to Puerto Rico’s infrastructure, health care providers had urgent needs for power, medical supplies, communications, and telemedicine support post-landfall. This was necessary to conduct emergency medical response and coordinate care with disaster response operations across the Island. Lifeline was also instrumental in enabling health officials in Puerto Rico to notify and communicate with beneficiaries and other relevant parties. This included sending alerts, tracking patients in “hot spots,” and communicating with federal counterparts. Under your current proposal, it is estimated that 75 percent of existing Lifeline customers in Puerto Rico would lose their telecommunications carrier. After many communities endured widespread lack of communications post-Maria, they should not be forced to endure additional hardship. Continued, reliable access is essential for the Island’s economy to recover and to help stop the outmigration of the Island’s residents. In addition, hurricane season starts June 1st, and we must make sure more residents – not fewer – have access to life-saving telecommunications services. For these reasons, we request that you abandon your proposals to gut the Lifeline program. Doing so would help stabilize the Island, while ensuring that its residents, emergency personnel, and health care providers have access to telecommunications services. Thank you for your attention to Puerto Rico and I look forward to working with you on this and other matters of importance for the Island. Sincerely, ###
05.01.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of Jewish American Heritage Month: “This Jewish American Heritage Month is a time to come together and honor the remarkable ways the Jewish people have shaped the success of our nation. Whether by settling in small towns, or major cities like New York, Jewish Americans make up a flourishing part of communities across the country. “New York City has a proud history of being home to one of the most vibrant Jewish communities in America. In their path to New York City, many Jewish immigrants persevered after fleeing oppression abroad. From Williamsburg in Brooklyn to the Lower East Side of Manhattan, such neighborhoods served as settling points for Jewish immigrants to build new lives in our city. “Sadly, this year, as we observe Jewish American Heritage Month, we have witnessed a frightening rise in anti-Semitic hate crimes in New York City. We all must voice our collective outrage against these atrocious acts. As a city and a nation, our diversity is our strength. “This May, I hope all New Yorkers take the time to honor the thriving Jewish presence throughout our country. I am proud to represent such diverse and prosperous communities in New York City.” # # #
05.01.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of May as Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month: “Every May, we come together to celebrate Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month, and to recognize the vast contributions that the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities have made to our nation. “From New York City’s Chinatown in Manhattan to Sunset Park in Brooklyn, to the rapidly growing number of other areas throughout all five boroughs, Asian Americans are a central piece of our city’s rich cultural tapestry. As the Asian population has grown in size, so have contributions in entrepreneurship and culture, including food, music, and the arts. Undeniably, Asian residents make up an integral part of our city’s identity. “I will continue to be a voice for the critical issues impacting the AAPI community from promoting greater economic opportunities to protecting immigrant families. “As we take the month of May to celebrate the Asian community, we can expect Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to continue contributing to our country’s achievements. This May, we should all take time to honor their commitment and sacrifices to our nation.” ###
04.25.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development plans to triple rent for low-income Americans and impose work requirements for those receiving housing subsidies: “This proposal is inhumane and unacceptable. As described, these plans would constitute nothing less than a draconian assault on families, working New Yorkers, seniors and some of our most vulnerable neighbors. Under Secretary Carson’s plan the poorest Americans in some of the most expensive housing markets would see their rent contributions triple. I will be joining arm-in-arm with my Democratic colleagues to stop this heartless proposal dead in its tracks.” Velázquez is a senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and the only New Yorker to serve on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee. ###
04.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after a federal district court judge ruled against President Trump’s decision to end DACA, requiring the program to resume and accept new applicants. “Time and again, the courts have rejected the President’s hate-filled attempts to terminate DACA, and, now, the courts have ruled the program must accept new applications. This ruling is a testament to the nearly 700,000 young Dreamers who have shown the nation their courage and persistence in the face of Trump’s bigoted decision. While the Court’s verdict is a step in the right direction, finding a permanent solution for Dreamers remains urgent. To this end, I will keep fighting in Congress to pass the DREAM Act.” ###
04.19.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) commented today on the Puerto Rico Oversight Board’s vote to approve its financial plan for the Island: “We are troubled that this plan contains severe austerity measures that will inflict further pain on the people of Puerto Rico who have already suffered tremendously. Beyond the devastating aftermath from Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico had already been enduring a decade-long recession. This plan intends to make the people of Puerto Rico sacrifice more, without real certainty of growth. Moreover, there are no guarantees that these funds will not ultimately flow to bondholders. This plan will only further exacerbate the rapid outmigration of Puerto Rico’s residents. “We have said time and time again that any sustainable solution for Puerto Rico must include permanent, pro-growth economic development measures rather than cuts to essential services, pensions or benefits for the most vulnerable. It is our hope that changes can be made as restructuring negotiations are finalized. We will continue pressing to ensure that the people of Puerto Rico are put first.” ###
04.18.2018	Nearly 100 Members of Congress Seek Answers from U.S. Department of Homeland Security on Immigration Program Washington, DC—Nearly 100 Members of Congress have written the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) demanding answers on how the agency is administering the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. The letter, led by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), presses Secretary Nielsen on recent TPS decisions affecting thousands of immigrants from Sudan, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Haiti and Syria. Signed by 80 Representatives and 17 Senators, the letter argues that the agency has failed to adequately justify ending TPS status for many covered countries and, in many cases, has also failed to make decisions in a timely, transparent manner, creating fear and uncertainty among immigrant communities. “The Trump Administration’s capricious and arbitrary rulings affecting these immigrant families have not only been inhumane, but also raise significant legal concerns,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “We intend to find out how Secretary Nielsen is justifying these TPS decisions and hold the agency accountable. For decades, both Republican and Democratic Administrations have regularly extended TPS coverage for these populations, yet the Trump Administration seems intent on targeting these immigrants simply to appease a far-right political base. That’s unacceptable and must stop.” “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s cruel decision to kick out thousands of hardworking TPS recipients,” said Senator Gillibrand. “These men, women, and children cannot safely return to their home countries due to circumstances out of their control, and they were offered shelter here because the United States is a nation that protects people in need. That is one of our country’s fundamental values. TPS recipients are valuable, contributing members of our communities. I urge the Trump Administration to do the right thing and renew the TPS program, and I will continue to do everything I can in the Senate to protect TPS recipients.” The letter was endorsed by more than 90 community, labor and advocacy groups. “Terminating Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Sudan, Nicaragua, Haiti, and El Salvador is an attack on our immigrant communities in an attempt to destroy them,” said Steve Choi, Executive Director of the New York Immigration Coalition. “Uprooting the lives of our neighbors, friends, and families is unjust and inhumane. We are signing on to this letter to Secretary Nielson because we know that TPS recipients are valuable threads in the social and economic fabric of our New York.” “This letter offers much needed questioning of the reason for and process behind the termination of TPS for Sudan, Nicaragua, Haiti and El Salvador. Thousands of working families have unjustly, and possibly illegally, been kept in limbo and in fear by an administration intent on tearing families apart,” said Hector Figueroa, President of 32BJ SEIU, the largest property service union in the country. “32BJ and our 163,000 members join the 96 signers of this letter in requesting that the Department of Homeland Security prove to diverse communities across the country that TPS is being lawfully administered.” “As Americans and people of faith, we have a moral responsibility to honor our promises to people we vowed to protect from being returned to harm through the TPS program," said Rev. John L. McCullough, Church World Service President and CEO. "We welcome this letter seeking transparency into the administration’s recent decisions around TPS terminations and extensions. We commend Members of Congress for strengthening oversight and accountability and pray the administration will do everything in its power to uphold our commitment to those individuals we pledged to shelter.” “High-stakes decisions, like those surrounding the fate of 350,000 TPS holders, all of them work-authorized and long-term residents of our communities, deserve consideration based on carefully collected information, not rash decisions based on questionable data,” said Oscar Chacón, executive director of Alianza Americas. “We applaud the leadership of Representative Velazquez and Senator Gillibrand, along with the nearly 100 members of Congress who signed their names to this letter. Their efforts are not only holding DHS accountable to the correct and transparent interpretation of our laws, but also upholding our values as a nation that honors family bonds, rewards hard work, and offers safety and refuge to those in need.” The TPS program was designed by Congress to provide a safe haven for immigrants facing armed conflict, natural disaster or other dangerous conditions in their home countries. The full text of the letter is below. A .pdf of the letter with a full list of signatories is online here. A full list of endorsing advocacy groups is online here. April 17, 2018 The Honorable Kirstjen Nielsen Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Nielsen: As Members of Congress, we write to express our concern regarding the most recent DHS decisions on Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Over the course of the past few months, DHS has announced decisions to terminate TPS for Sudan, Nicaragua, Haiti, and El Salvador. TPS has long been viewed as a practical and effective tool for American foreign policy and key to providing a stability framework for individual countries. Given the long-standing policy of prior administrations—both Republican and Democratic—on the continued provision of such status, the reversal undertaken by the administration, and the termination of protected status for individuals with long histories in the United States is shocking and counterproductive to regional and international stability interests. As you know, section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) prescribes that a foreign state may be designated under TPS if there is: (1) an armed ongoing conflict within the state that poses a serious threat to the personal safety of returning nationals;[1] (2) a natural disaster resulting in a substantial disruption of living conditions in the foreign state;[2] or (3) “extraordinary and temporary conditions” that prevent those who are nationals of that state from safely returning, unless the government finds that permitting them to remain in the United States is contrary to the “national interest.”[3] TPS was designed by Congress to protect people from being returned to harmful conditions, and offer safe haven for persons who do not meet the legal definition of a “refugee” under existing law.[4], [5] Given the unexpected decisions by your agency, we are requesting information from you to ensure that the statute governing TPS is interpreted as intended by Congress when this form of safe haven was formally codified into law. We send this request with the intent of understanding, based on the most previous TPS designations, your agency’s conclusions, and the appropriate qualitative and quantitative metrics that are being used to justify your and your predecessor’s decisions. The most recent Federal Register records providing extension of status for these countries note that the countries whose designations have recently been terminated continued to meet the criteria for TPS designation under INA section 244(b). Yet, press releases issued by your agency, along with the most recent publications in the Federal Register, raise concern. While the notices generally note that conditions have “improved” from the time of TPS designation, some of the metrics provided as evidence are unclear, confusing, and at times irrelevant. The assessments are limited in their breadth and depth since they lack appropriate quantitative data and provide little qualitative substance. Once decisions have been made, the delay between TPS decision announcements—which have mostly been channeled through DHS press releases—and the publication of Federal Register Notices (FRN) has been unprecedented under this administration. The statute requires that the administration “shall provide on a timely basis for the publication of notice of each such decision…in the Federal Register.”[6] In practice, previous administrations have released FRNs within days. Yet, there are troubling trends with current practices on the timely publication of such notices:  The notice regarding Sudan was delayed by over 3 weeks;  The notices regarding Nicaragua and Honduras were delayed over 5 and a half weeks;  The notice regarding Haiti was delayed by over 8 weeks; and  The notice regarding El Salvador was delayed by a week and a half. Arguably, the numbers above reflect an inconsistent application of your agency’s responsibilities. It is not only cruel and inhumane to force current TPS holder populations to live in a state of fear and limbo while the administration prepares the FRNs, but also opens the door for malicious actors to take advantage of immigrant communities because of information gaps on publicly accessible information. In summary, it is our intent to understand how the countries have been able to overcome limitations and aggravating conditions that were highlighted in previous extension notices. Therefore, we would like your response to the following questions and request any relevant documentation from agencies that were consulted in each of the following decisions.[7] In the case of Sudan: 1. Termination of status was issued on October 11, 2017. The Federal Register notes that: “the ongoing armed conflict no longer prevents the return of nationals of Sudan to all regions of Sudan without posing a serious threat to their personal safety.”[8] The published notice indicated that: “further, extraordinary and temporary conditions within Sudan no longer prevent nationals from returning in safety to all regions of Sudan.”[9] The notice later specifies that the “conflict in Sudan is limited to Darfur and the Two Areas (South Kordofan and Blue Nile states)” and notes that there is a series of time-limited unliteral “cessation” of hostilities.[10] a. If a ceasefire is time-limited, does that not, therefore, imply that hostile actions, including further armed conflict, is possible at any time? b. If TPS recipients were to live or have family ties to these affected regions—and with nowhere else to go—what confidence does your agency have in the Sudanese government being able to provide for the security and wellbeing of such individuals? c. Your agency took 23 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is an extremely long time for a decision to be published and is, arguably, contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? d. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Sudan warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of Nicaragua: 2. Please describe in detail, with a list of applicable regions/departments, the status of these areas and how exactly they have been able to improve in the past 18 months? The notice provided in the Federal Register on December 15, 2017 notes that “many reconstruction projects have now been completed” and that “hundreds of homes destroyed by the storm have been rebuilt.”[11] Such assessment is vague and provides little substance. Please provide a list of Nicaraguan state-sponsored, public-private investments, non-profit activities or international development finance programs that justify that these issues, along with the items addressed on the aforementioned notice have, in fact, been resolved. a. The register notice on May 15, 2016 reported that Nicaragua was unable to handle the return an influx of its nationals because of volcanic eruptions and heavy rains.[12] In 2017, it was widely reported that Tropical Storm Nate caused havoc in Central America with flooding, landslides and infrastructure damage. According to reports from La Prensa, the country had a total of 13 deaths, 14,262 persons affected and 3,759 damaged homes in 14 departments.[13] These numbers are significant, especially given that this was only a tropical storm. Please describe, in detail, how Nicaragua is intended to cope with disaster rehabilitation and construction projects alongside an influx of nationals in 2019 and how the storm’s impact was, in any way or form, factored into the number homes that may have been lost due to the storm from the “hundreds of homes” figure provided by your agency in its most recent notice. b. As part of your answer to the above question, please provide an estimate of the country’s financial ability to repatriate its citizens with current safety net programs or protocol. c. Your agency took 39 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is an extremely long time for a decision to be published and is, arguably, contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? d. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Nicaragua warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of Honduras: 3. Your agency was unable to arrive at a conclusion for TPS.[14] As a result, TPS was automatically extended for an additional period of 6 months as provided in statute. In the 2016 notice on TPS extension, it was noted that Honduras was having difficulty responding to mosquito-borne illnesses because of heavy rainfall, and that such conditions were exacerbating “persisting disruptions” caused by Hurricane Mitch. In the upcoming months, your agency will determine whether current conditions require an extension of status. Please provide an explanation of how Honduras’ public health system, along with other infrastructure, have improved sufficiently to address current needs and a sudden influx of TPS nationals. a. As part of your answer to the above question, please provide an estimate of the country’s financial ability to repatriate its citizens with current safety net programs or protocol. b. On November 9, 2017 it was reported that your predecessor, Acting Secretary Elaine Duke, was pressured by the White House Chief of Staff John Kelly to end TPS designation for Honduran nationals.[15] Ms. Duke later denied such pressure from the President’s Chief of Staff.[16] Regardless of such denial, the idea of the White House encroaching on an agency’s legislative responsibilities raises concern, particularly if the Department of Homeland Security is able to fully execute its independent decision-making authority on nationals in receipt of TPS. Can you assure Members of Congress that you are able to exercise such statutory authority consistent with the spirit of the Immigration and Nationality Act and free from improper influence? c. Given widespread violence and persecution, including forcible gang recruitment, police corruption, lack of a child protection system, and sexual assault and rape, what do you think is the best approach to ensuring Hondurans are not forcibly returned to life-threatening, unsafe conditions? d. Your agency took 39 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is an extremely long time for a decision to be published and is, arguably, contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? e. Would you reconsider re-extending TPS if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Honduras warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of El Salvador: 4. The Federal Register published on January 18, 2018 notes that “many reconstruction projects have now been completed. Damaged schools and hospitals have been reconstructed and repaired, homes have been rebuilt, and money has been provided for water and sanitation and to repair damaged roads and other infrastructure.”[17] This seems to contradict the 2016 extension notice, which indicated that 340,000 homes destroyed by the 2001 earthquakes remained unbuilt.[18] a. Please describe, in detail, the state of reconstruction and repair of infrastructure and how such projects have been able to have been completed since the date of the 2016 extension notice. b. As part of your answer to this question, please provide raw numbers, percentages and overall percentage change, from 2016 to 2018. c. Your agency took 9 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is a stark contrast to the Administration’s approach to previous “timely basis” observations, inconsistent with previous practices executed under the current Administration and contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” for publication in the Register. What caused this delay? d. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in El Salvador warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of Haiti: 5. As you know, TPS was first granted to eligible Haitians in the U.S. in 2010, following a 7.0 magnitude earthquake, affecting 3 million people (one-third of Haiti's population), displacing 1.5 million people, and causing catastrophic damage to the country’s infrastructure. Haiti was left without infrastructure for electricity, telephone services and fuel, while basic needs such as food and water were (and remain) scarce. On May 24, 2017, your agency noted that Haiti had “over 55,000 Haitians who lost their homes in the earthquake [were] still living in 31 camps for internally displaced persons without viable options to leave.”[19] The notice also indicated that basic public health services were largely inaccessible to Haitians before and after the earthquake, and that the number of displaced persons decreased to 38,000. Yet the January 18, 2018 notice omits the public health issue, despite the Administration’s expectation of Haiti being able to successfully handle an additional 46,000 of its nationals.[20] a. Please describe how the country will be able to handle an influx of immigrants “in safety” with access to basic public health services stagnant at 40%. b. Your agency took 59 days to publish its decision in the Federal Register. This is the longest your agency took to publish a decision. The 8-week delay is unequivocally contrary to the spirit of the law’s requirement of “timely basis” in the Register. What caused this delay? c. Would you reconsider the previous termination if your review, prompted by this letter, or further congressional inquiries, determine that the conditions existing in Haiti warrant continued designation under Temporary Protected Status? In the case of Syria: 6. Syria was first designated for TPS in 2012, as the civil war plaguing the nation made country conditions unlivable and unsafe. A violent government repression of what began as peaceful demonstrations by the public in 2011 has become one of the most destructive and fatal conflicts in recent history. Over 5.4 million people have fled Syria since the conflict began, and the United Nations estimates that more than 400,000 people have been killed.[21] Reports have surfaced documenting the use of chemical weapons against civilians as recently as April, 2017.[22] In addition to government-sponsored humanitarian and human rights violations, the Syrian people have also been subjected to violence at the hands of terrorist groups, primarily ISIL. The impact of the war on civilians is exacerbated by the inhumane tactics used by many of the warring parties, such as siege warfare, and deliberate deprival of food, medicine and water. There have been deliberate attacks on areas predominantly populated by civilians such as hospitals and schools, violating international humanitarian law and leaving no safe places for Syrians. a. What factors ultimately led to Syria’s TPS 18-month extension? What factors ultimately led to deciding to limit registration to current holders?[23] What criteria did you use to make that determination? b. As part of your answer to the above question, please describe, in detail, your decision to limit registration to current recipients, considering that your agency has noted that conditions warranting the initial designation continue to exist.[24] Based on current statutory requirements and the precedence of previous extensions of temporary protected status for the aforementioned countries, it can be argued that the circumstances in each country fall under the definition of “extraordinary and temporary conditions” under the INA’s section 244(b)(1)(C). A foreign national returning to any of these conditions may be subject to precarious conditions, therefore compromising their ability to return to their state in safety. Such conditions may arise or worsen because of governance issues, particularly if a foreign state is unable to adequate repatriate its nationals. It is important to note that the statute does not prevent re-designation of a TPS country under a new subparagraph, so long as the designation is consistent with the program’s purpose.[25] As such, we request answers to the following questions: 7. Can you describe, in detail, how all the countries specified in this letter have managed to resolve their respective aforementioned circumstances, including issues that have been cited previously in earlier versions of the Federal Register, from the date of the most recent extension of status of countries under TPS. a. In the case that a country (or countries) has/have not been able to do so, please elaborate why these circumstances were not taken into account for designation under 244(b)(1)(C). b. Congress has not specified the definition of an immigrant’s ability under TPS to “return to their state in safety.”[26] Please provide the Administration’s interpretation of such terminology, and include a comparative analysis of how this definition differs from previous interpretations from other Administrations. c. If an immigrant under TPS is unable to be fully repatriated because of circumstances/limitations that were previously indicated in prior Federal Register notices, does this not jeopardize the Administration’s current interpretation of TPS statute and an immigrant’s ability to be “return[ed] to their state in safety?” i. If a condition listed on previous register notices is based on new developments not immediately related to the original designation, but strain an individual country’s ability to respond to issues stemming from/related to the original designation, would this not be considered a “temporary or extraordinary” condition given previous designations? If so, please indicate why your agency’s discretion was unused in providing safe haven protections. If not, please provide a detailed explanation, including the appropriate metrics and methodologies, that are employed to determine whether a condition mentioned in a previous FRN is “temporary or extraordinary.” ii. Is it your view, or the Administration’s view, that the presence of TPS holders in our country is counter to our national interests? If not, please specify, in detail, why the discretionary power provided under 244(b)(1)(C) was unused. If it is the Administration’s view that their presence in the United States is counter to U.S. interest, please specify the reasons that determine this assessment. We also ask that you provide a copy of all non-sensitive interagency documents relevant to the consultation requirements under statute describing the TPS decisions for all the countries listed in this letter.[27] Given the inconsistencies and unclear methodologies employed by your agency regarding these terminations, extensions and delay on timely publication in the Federal Register, we request a response to these questions no later than 60 calendar days from the date of this letter. Your agency’s response will facilitate Congress’ assessment of the metrics and methodologies used to evaluate termination or extension of temporary protected status for all TPS holders. Answers to these questions will also subject agencies responsible for the execution and interpretation of the “timely basis” requirement required for periodic review publication under statute.[28] Your timely response and collaboration will provide Congress with the adequate tools to provide further legislative remedies on an as-needed basis. Should Congress determine that your agency failed to execute the statute appropriately or as intended, additional questions and remedies will follow. Sincerely, ###
04.18.2018	Bill Would Authorize Federal Funding for Public Transit Authorities Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today announced new legislation aimed at making public transit fares more affordable for low-income commuters, seniors and other vulnerable populations. Her bill, the “Transportation Equity Act,” would establish a new federal grant program that Public Transit Authorities (PTAs) like the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) could apply for if they offer free, unlimited transportation passes for specific groups. Velázquez said her bill would put federal dollars toward addressing a fundamental issue affecting thousands of New Yorkers. “Being able to traverse the city, whether to attend work or keep a medical appointment or simply visit family, should be a fundamental right,” Velázquez noted. “Today, too many vulnerable New Yorkers must choose between affording their subway fare and buying groceries. The federal government should help cities like New York put transit in reach for all our neighbors.” Velázquez’s bill would make federal funds available for city transit systems that create “Transit Unlimited” or “T-U Passes.” Individuals eligible for a T-U pass would include: those 60 years or older; persons with disabilities; people in receipt of means-tested benefits like food stamps; and individuals whose income is 300% or less of the poverty line. Spouses of these individuals and their dependents could also apply for the transit benefit. Recent studies have documented that it has become increasingly challenging for working and low-income New Yorkers to shoulder transportation costs. One report from the Community Service Society of New York (CSS) found that 1 in 4 low-income New Yorkers cannot afford to use public transportation. “If you can’t afford to use the subway or the bus, it simply becomes that much harder to attain a decent paying job or secure affordable housing,” Velázquez added. “If your income level keeps you off public transit, you are effectively locked out of other basic opportunities.” Velázquez’s bill comes as momentum mounts for New York to provide reduced fares for low-income New Yorkers. Her bill was cosponsored by five other Members of the New York City Congressional delegation. The measure also won acclaim from several New York City Council Members. “Public transit moves our nation forward, ensuring that seniors can access critical services and working men and women can get to their jobs,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “But rising transit costs are putting an undue burden on far too many New Yorkers. I’m proud to join Congresswoman Velasquez to provide much-needed relief to seniors, disabled persons, and working families who will greatly benefit from improved access to public transit.” “The TEA Act will bring us one step closer to making public transportation affordable for all New Yorkers. It will cut fares for those that need it most, helping to ensure that they can afford to get to work, access healthcare, or attend school,” said Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY). “Seniors, low-income persons, and other vulnerable populations need reliable access to public transportation. Oftentimes, even access to public transportation is beyond their means. This legislation will guarantee that they can use New York City’s transportation system for free so that they can move around and access key health and social services more easily. Thousands of Bronxites stand to benefit from this proposal,” said Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY). “I commend Congresswoman Velázquez on today’s introduction of the Transportation Equity Act to keep public transit fares affordable for New Yorkers,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). “Often low-income communities have limited options for transit to get to and from work, school and other appointments. This bill would lessen the financial burden these residents face when traveling throughout the city. A safe, reliable and affordable transit system keeps our community and our economy vibrant and strong. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleague in Congress to put forth responsible solutions to help address transportation and transit needs throughout our communities.” “Reduced fare MetroCards will grant low-income New Yorkers greater access to employment and education opportunities, both of which can lead to intergenerational mobility. No New Yorker should have to decide whether to purchase a MetroCard or pay their electricity bill, which is why I join my colleagues in supporting discounted fares,” said Council Member Diana Ayala, Co-Chair of the Progressive Caucus. "New York City's working poor should not have to jump turnstiles or beg for a swipe in order to get access to our public transportation system," said Council Member Ben Kallos, Co-Chair of the Progressive Caucus. "If you are making minimum wage in this City you have to put three hours of pay aside every week just to afford to get to work. Congress Member Velasquez's competitive grant legislation is exactly what we need: financial support for the transportation costs of low-income New Yorkers. We support this initiative by the Congress Member to help bring much-needed equity to our City's transportation system." “Fair Fares allows low-income New Yorkers the chance to make a living for themselves and their families, getting to and from work without worrying about the cost of the commute," said Council Member Keith Powers, Vice-Chair of Budget for Progressive Caucus. "New Yorkers confront this crisis every day on their daily commutes when they are asked for a swipe. With federal investment in Fair Fares, thousands of New Yorkers can realize new opportunities, free of fiscal consequences.” “It isn’t public transit if people can’t afford the fare," said Council Member Carlos Menchaca, Vice-Chair of Engagement for the Progressive Caucus, and Chair of the New York City Council Committee on Immigration. "Congresswoman Velazquez’s ‘Transportation Equity Act’ is a smart investment in transit that will sustain communities and propel the economies of New York City and transportation systems throughout the nation.” The bill was also endorsed by a range of community groups including: Chinatown Partnership; Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs, NY Chapter; Betances Health Center; Lower East Side Service Center; Community Service Society; Riders Alliance NYC; Transportation Alternatives; UPROSE; and El Grito de Sunset Park. Velázquez has previously authorized legislation aimed at strengthening New York’s transit system, reducing delays and funding alternatives when major transportation arteries are closed for repairs. That bill, the Transportation Alternatives Investment Program, would expand choices for New York commuters when there are closures like the planned temporary shuttering of the L Train in January 2019 and a shutdown of parts of the M train, beginning this summer. Under her bill, federal funds from the Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) Program would be prioritized for projects in areas where there are significant transportation upgrades underway. A summary of the Transportation Equity Act is available online here. A copy of the legislation may be downloaded here. ###
04.17.2018	Panel’s Jurisdiction Includes Puerto Rico Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has been tapped to join the House Natural Resources Committee. That panel’s jurisdiction is wide ranging, touching on issues like: mineral resources, wildlife conservation, federal lands, grazing rights and hydropower development. The Committee also has jurisdiction over offshore territories and Freely Associated States of the United States, including Puerto Rico. “In recent years, first during the economic crisis and later, following Hurricane Maria, I’ve worked closely with Members of the Natural Resources Committee on legislation to help address Puerto Rico’s challenges,” Velázquez said. “I’m honored to join this panel which, in addition to examining federal policies related to Puerto Rico, formulates critical laws on environmental and land use issues that will determine what state we leave our planet for our children.” “Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez will be a powerful champion for the environment and the well-being of all Americans on the Committee on Natural Resources,” said Leader Pelosi (D-CA). “With her decades of valuable experience fighting to protect working families and her undaunted, determined advocacy for the people of Puerto Rico, Congresswoman Velazquez offers an invaluable voice in advocating vital policies to help Puerto Rico rebuild and advance into the 21st Century economy. We are fortunate to have her wisdom and expertise on the Committee on Natural Resources.” “I’m thrilled Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez will be joining the Natural Resources Committee,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), the Ranking Member of House Natural Resources Committee. “She’s been a fierce advocate for the people of Puerto Rico and has been working tirelessly to ensure our fellow Americans living on the island are being treated fairly. Her commitment to progressive ideals and compassion will be assets on a wide variety of issues facing our Committee. I’m excited to have another strong-voiced Democrat on our Committee who isn’t afraid to speak up and push back on the extreme Republican agenda.” “I want to especially thank Leader Pelosi and Ranking Member Grijalva for facilitating my joining this prestigious Committee,” Velázquez added. “I look forward to advancing policies ensuring our nation is a better steward of our nation’s resources and environment.” Velázquez is the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee and the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. She is the first Puerto Rican woman elected to the U.S. Congress. ###
04.17.2018	On Tax Day, Unveils Proposal to Establish Tax Credit for Flood Insurance Purchase Washington, DC—In 2017, powerful hurricanes tore through communities across the Atlantic, spurring extreme flooding and contributing to the costliest year for natural disaster on record. As flooding continues to be the number one disaster in the United States, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is fighting to expand affordable flood insurance for working families. Today, on Tax Day, Velázquez unveiled a new bill, the Flood Insurance Tax Credit Act of 2018, which would establish a tax credit to assist families and working New Yorkers who need flood insurance. “While natural disasters may be hard to predict, their wrath and destruction are not to be underestimated—something that unfortunately, New Yorkers are too familiar with,” said Velázquez. “As our climate changes, it is not a question of if, but when, we will next encounter severe weather. My bill will put flood insurance in reach for more working families, ensuring they are better protected the next time a major storm hits New York City.” In 1968, Congress created the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to make up for deficiencies in the private market. With studies showing that affordability remains a major roadblock for families looking to purchase flood insurance, Velázquez’s bill would provide financial relief in the form of a tax credit. While recent statistics place the average cost of flood insurance policy at $700 per year, the amount varies depending on the level of flood risk in any given location. For example, a home with the maximum coverage of $250,000 for the dwelling and $100,000 for possessions, premiums can exceed $2,500 per year. Specifically, the Flood Insurance Tax Credit Act of 2018 would create a new tax credit for flood insurance expenses for taxpayers who are covered under NFIP. “Today, as our nation marks Tax Day, I am introducing an effort to give working families and homeowners in flood prone areas a meaningful tax break,” said Velázquez. “No hardworking person should be kept up at night worried about whether they can afford to protect their home from the next destructive storm.” To ensure that the proposed tax credit would reach families who need it the most, the credit would be phased out based on a taxpayer’s income. In terms of eligibility, the credit will be available in full to those making $50,000 or less and half the credit will be available for those making up to $100,000. Assuming a taxpayer files jointly, the income caps will be doubled. The credit will not be available to those who make over $100,000 a year. “In 2017, Republicans in Congress passed a massive tax scam that benefited the wealthiest 1 percent and large corporations at the expense of working families and seniors,” Velázquez said. “New Yorkers deserve real tax reform and this legislation will help our neighbors who live near coastal areas.” In 2012, Superstorm Sandy devastated coastal regions of New York and New Jersey, causing approximately $60 billion in damage and leading thousands of homeowners to file insurance claims. Since then, Velázquez has led multiple initiatives to bring transparency, oversight and reform to NFIP. Her bill, H.R. 2875 passed in the House Financial Services Committee unanimously in 2017 and would reduce fraud and ensure policyholders are able to obtain the claims they are owed after floods. ###
04.13.2018	Says Landlord’s Tossing of Tenant Belongings Could Violate Law Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote to Manhattan District Attorney Vance asking that he investigate a recent incident occurring at 85 Bowery in which workers had discarded tenants’ belongings into a dumpster. The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. A .pdf is online here. April 13, 2018 The Honorable Cyrus R. Vance, Jr. District Attorney of New York County One Hogan Place New York, NY 10013 Dear District Attorney Vance: I was deeply alarmed to read recent media reports describing how workers had discarded into dumpsters the belongings of displaced tenants from 85 Bowery. According to news stories, the tenants, who have been residing offsite since January 18 to accommodate city-mandated work and asbestos abatement in the building, had agreed to have their personal items placed into temporary storage. They arrived yesterday to find many their belongings discarded into a dumpster outside the building. Residents reportedly had to sift through the dumpster to retrieve medicine, books and even money. Not only was this behavior inhumane, but it potentially runs afoul of New York City law. This latest sequence of events is particularly troubling as it comes after years of dubious behavior on the part of 8385 Bowery, LLC, and its owner Joesph Betesh. The tenants of these buildings and many community members have long held that Mr. Betesh intends to force residents out of the building with the ultimate goal of converting the units into market rate apartments. For years, 8385 Bowery, LLC allowed the buildings to fall into disrepair. Finally, in 2016, the company claimed that it needed to evict families from their homes in these buildings to address structural deficiencies. In January of this year, the city issued a vacate order for 85 Bowery, requiring the building owner to conduct significant repairs on the property. Only after significant legal actions were tenants eventually afforded temporary lodging while repairs were to be completed with the promise that they could return to their homes. In March, while the City-ordered work was being conducted, asbestos was discovered, just days before tenants were supposed to be allowed home, further delaying their return. I remain deeply concerned that 8385 Bowery, LLC continues operating in a manner aimed ultimately at displacing these tenants, rather than living up to its legal obligation of appropriately maintaining these properties. As you know, New York’s Housing Maintenance Code Section 27-2004 defines tenant harassment as “any act or omission by or on behalf of an owner that causes or is intended to cause any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of a dwelling unit to vacate such dwelling unit or to surrender or waive any rights in relation to such occupancy.” The code further specifically identifies “removing the possessions of any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of such dwelling unit” as an example of such harassment. Given the lengthy troubled history of tenant-landlord relations at this property, I am concerned that this latest incident may potentially constitute tenant harassment. I therefore request that your office investigate this latest incident and determine whether 8385 Bowery, LLC has engaged in harassment. The residents of 83 and 85 Bowery have suffered long enough. It is important that, as they await the return to their homes, their legal rights are fully respected. I appreciate your office looking into this matter in furtherance of this goal. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this timely manner. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez MEMBER OF CONGRESS ###
04.12.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding House Republicans’ so-called “Balanced Budget Act”: “The Republican tax scam mortgaged working families and seniors’ futures to finance a giant giveaway to Wall Street, big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent. Now, with estimates suggesting our nation could reach $2 trillion in debt by 2028, Republicans want to amend the U.S. constitution to force seniors to give up the foundations of their retirement by gutting Medicare and Social Security. This is the height of hypocrisy and fiscal recklessness. This plan must be stopped, which is why I voted no.” ###
04.06.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement calling on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to resign. “Since taking control of the EPA, Scott Pruitt has not only made a mockery of the agency’s core mission, his actions also epitomize the culture of corruption plaguing the Trump Administration. He has billed taxpayers for lavish expenses and prioritized the needs of his rich confidants over the American people, all while pursuing a radical anti-environment agenda. He has lost all credibility and should step down immediately.” ###
03.23.2018	With Vote Next Week, Leads 34 Members of Congress in Condemning Privatization Proposal Washington, DC –Next week, the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico faces a deadline to vote on Governor Ricardo Rosselló’s fiscal plan for the Commonwealth—including efforts to privatize Puerto Rico’s prisons. With just days until the vote, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today led 34 Members of Congress in urging Puerto Rican authorities to abandon their proposal to privatize the Island’s prison system. In a letter to the Governor and the Chairman of the Oversight Board, Velázquez warned that privatization would engender dangerous consequences for the Island, such as separating families, perpetuating unethical prison conditions and draining local revenue. “Not only are privatized prisons known for employing inhumane conditions to save money, they tear families apart and hinder meaningful rehabilitation,” said Velázquez. “This shameful effort puts profit before the wellbeing of inmates, and must be rejected by the Board.” In Governor Rosselló’s New Fiscal Plan for Puerto Rico, the Governor includes a provision, the “Out-of-State Program,” to externalize imprisonment services for 3,200 inmates in Puerto Rico, a total of 30 percent of the imprisoned population. In the letter, Velázquez and lawmakers repudiate the Governor’s claim that the Out-of-State Program will save money; instead the letter cites analysis showing that the proposed program will increase the Island’s deficit by $46.6 million. “There are simply no cost savings to justify this plan,” said Velázquez. “To the contrary, not only will this proposal burden Puerto Rico’s already strained economy, it could breach human rights and raises constitutional issues.” Studies have consistently demonstrated that for-profit prison companies can promote a violent and counterproductive environment, and they have proven that family visitation reduces rates of recidivism. The Out-of-State program would therefore impair the successful rehabilitation of inmates. “It is my strong conviction that criminal justice reform must make the rehabilitation of inmates a top priority,” said Velázquez. “Time and again, we have seen that private prisons lack incentives to consider the needs of inmates, instead focusing on their bottom line—profit.” The letter additionally cites constitutional issues as reason for the Governor and Oversight Board to abandon privatization efforts. Specifically, by preventing inmates from visiting their families, Velázquez raises a potential violation of Article VI, Section 19 of Puerto Rico’s Constitution. “Not only does transferring prisoners thousands of miles away from their families raise ethical issues, but it also raises serious legal concerns,” said Velázquez. “If this proposal is passed, it will likely be challenged in court.” In 2012, Puerto Rico entered into a two-year contract with a private prison company, Corrections Corporation of America to transfer up to 480 inmates to a correctional facility in Oklahoma. Following a unit-wide altercation in the Oklahoma facility, Puerto Rico’s Department of Correction and Rehabilitation terminated the contract, ultimately citing budgetary concerns. “As prior failed attempts have shown, private prisons are out to maximize profit, not provide safe conditions or meaningful rehabilitation,” Velázquez concluded. “The government of Puerto Rico should reject this proposal outright.” In addition to Velázquez, the letter was signed by House Reps. Serrano, Cárdenas, Cohen, Correa, Crowley, Cummings, Doggett, Ellison, Espaillat, Grijalva, Gutiérrez, H. Johnson, Khanna, Lee, Lewis, Meeks, Moore, Nadler, Napolitano, Pallone, Payne, Pocan, Richmond, Schakowsky, R. Scott, Sires, Soto, B. Thompson, Titus, Torres, Vargas, Watson Coleman. Senators Sanders and Warren also signed the letter. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. March 23, 2018 The Honorable Ricardo A. Rosselló Nevares Governor of Puerto Rico La Fortaleza P.O Box 9020082 San Juan, PR 00902-0082 Mr. José B. Carrión III Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Governor Rosselló and Chairman Carrión: We write to express our opposition to the recent proposal to privatize much of Puerto Rico’s Department of Correction and Rehabilitation (“DCR”).[1] Such a change could lead to undesirable outcomes, such as increasing the Island’s deficit and leading to higher rates of recidivism. As a result, we believe that this proposal should be rejected and that on-Island alternatives should be pursued. I. The Proposal Will Increase the Deficit In our analysis, the proposal will not generate any new savings, but rather increase the government of Puerto Rico’s deficit. While the proposal assumes a $46.9 million cost reduction from implementing the “Out-of-State Program,” such a plan will require spending at least $70 million on correctional costs off-Island.[2] As a result, the structural deficit will actually increase, because every dollar of government spending moved off-Island results in a loss of 80 cents in tax revenue.[3] As a result, the total increase to the Island’s deficit attributable to the Out of State Program would be $46.6 million.[4] Furthermore, many reputable studies have concluded that there are no cost savings from the privatization of prisoner custody in the first place—regardless of any multiplier effect—including the United States General Accounting Office.[5] II. General Concerns Over Prison Privatizations Significant concerns have been raised about the operations of for-profit corrections companies.[6] As a result, the practices of private prison companies can promote an environment that is more violent and counterproductive to rehabilitation.[7] In this regard, we are concerned that privatizing Puerto Rico’s prison system could generate these problems, where they did not exist before, and that transferring Puerto Rican inmates to private prisons outside of Puerto Rico would subject them to similar treatment. Either of these outcomes would be unacceptable. III. Successful Rehabilitation Incorporates Family Visitation We are also concerned that if implemented, this proposal would be devastating for families on the Island, and would undermine rehabilitation efforts. Numerous studies show the positive effects that family visitation and contact have in reducing recidivism among prisoners when released.[8] Given the distance and cost involved in a privatized prison system for the island, it is likely that fewer inmates would receive family visits, and that this would impact their eventual release and reintegration into Puerto Rican society. A criminal defense lawyer in San Juan commented that this proposal would be a “terrible hardship,” and that family members would have to bear an expensive and time-consuming flight to the mainland.[9] One criminology expert stated that the distance from family members brought about by this proposal would delay progress in the rehabilitation of inmates.[10] Instead, the government should be working to rehabilitate prisoners and reduce recidivism, thereby helping former prisoners become productive members of society, and at the same time lowering prison costs over the long term. IV. Constitutional Issues We are also concerned that the externalization of imprisonment services proposal may violate Puerto Rican constitutional law. Article VI, Section 19 of the Constitution of Puerto Rico states: It shall be the public policy of the Commonwealth… to regulate its penal institutions in a manner that effectively achieves their purposes and to provide, within the limits of available resources, for adequate treatment of delinquents in order to make possible their moral and social rehabilitation.[11] The Puerto Rico courts have held that Article VI, Section 19 may be violated when prisoners are prevented from visiting with their families, reasoning that visitation is necessary for rehabilitation.[12] It appears that this proposal, to the extent it prevents inmates from visiting with their families, may violate Puerto Rico’s Constitution. V. Previous privatization attempts have failed Finally, we are concerned that this proposal attempts to reestablish policies that have failed previously. For example, in 2012, Puerto Rico entered into a two-year contract with Corrections Corporation of America (“CCA”) to transfer as many as 480 male inmates to Cimarron Correctional Facility (“CCF”) in Cushing, Oklahoma. In 2013, there was a unit-wide altercation at CCF involving those same inmates.[13] Approximately three months after the altercation, CCA officials announced that the Puerto Rico DCR decided to terminate its contract with CCA and return its inmates to Puerto Rico, ultimately citing budgetary concerns.[14] This failed experiment demonstrated both that privatization of Puerto Rican inmates to the mainland is unsafe and not cost-effective. This is not the time to propose privatization of prison services, particularly when numerous contracts awarded by the government of Puerto Rico have been prematurely terminated or have ended up in controversy.[15] It is vital that the island focus on post-Maria recovery efforts and attracting investment to the Island, not outsourcing inherently governmental functions. VI. Conclusion For the reasons indicated above, we encourage you to rescind this proposal. It would tear families apart, hinder inmates’ rehabilitation, repeat the mistakes of prior governments, and subject the government of Puerto Rico to legal challenges. We appreciate your sense of urgency in trying to remedy the Island’s fiscal crisis. However, we are seriously concerned that if implemented, this proposal would cause more harm to Puerto Rico without any cost savings to justify it. Sincerely, ###
03.22.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on “omnibus” spending legislation passed in the U.S. House of Representatives: “This omnibus spending bill continues to fund Trump’s deportation machine, while failing to offer a solution for the young DREAMers who are American in every way but on paper and whose futures are in jeopardy due to Trump’s rollback of DACA. Moreover, the bill does not include needed fixes to our healthcare system, which have received bipartisan support. While the legislation does include some Democratic priorities, including legislation I authored to help small businesses recover after disaster, on balance I could not support this bill and voted no.” ###
03.21.2018	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives this week approved legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) that would rename a Chinatown post office in memory of a local trailblazer, Mabel Lee. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 4463 would designate a Post Office at 6 Doyers Street in Manhattan’s Chinatown, as the “Mabel Lee Memorial Post Office.” “I’m proud my colleagues have approved my bill that would honor Mabel Lee’s legacy,” Velázquez noted. “Mabel Lee was a steadfast advocate for women’s rights and for the greater Asian American community. Her hard work and activism empowered many, bringing more Chinese-American women into the electoral process and helping them to secure voting rights.” Mable Lee was the first Chinese woman to receive a PhD from Columbia University. She is known for organizing classes for Chinatown’s residents to build skills in areas like carpentry, radio and typewriting. At just age 22, Lee led Chinese and Chinese-American women in a May 1917 pro-suffrage parade in New York City. “Mabel Lee’s life is the story of breaking down countless barriers at a time when women had few opportunities,” said Velázquez. “All New Yorkers and especially women in public service owe her a debt of gratitude. Renaming this post office in her honor is a fitting tribute to such an inspiring figure.” Velázquez’s bill passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support through a “voice vote.” The bill must now be considered in the U.S. Senate.
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C.- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today led 40 Members of Congress in calling for legislation in upcoming Fiscal Year 2019 appropriations bills to protect immigrants covered under Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED). In a letter to House appropriators, the Members ask that future appropriations bills preclude funds from being used to detain or remove immigrants covered under TPS or DED. “The Trump Administration has made a series of coldhearted, shameful rulings with regards to TPS, targeting hardworking immigrants and threatening to tear apart families,” said Velázquez. “We must use every tool at our disposal to ensure these immigrants are protected, including utilizing the appropriations process to block the Trump Administration’s anti-immigrant policies, if necessary.” Velázquez is the author of the American Promise Act, legislation that would protect from deportation individuals who currently receive TPS and DED. A .pdf of the letter is online here and the full text is available below. March 19, 2018 The Honorable John Carter The Honorable Lucille Roybal-Allard Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Homeland Security Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: As you begin consideration of the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you include report language to protect beneficiaries who are currently in possession of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and current Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) holders. Over the course of the past few months, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has announced decisions to terminate TPS for Sudan, Nicaragua, Haiti, and El Salvador. TPS, governed by statute, and DED, as a presidential directive privilege, have long been viewed as a practical and effective tool for American foreign policy by both Republicans and Democrats. TPS beneficiaries live and work legally in the United States and were given an opportunity to do so given extraordinary hardships in their respective countries of origin. Their immediate departure, in some cases after 20 years of legal presence, poses a hardship for our communities. It also poses a financial burden on taxpayers: the deportation of Salvadoran, Haitian and Honduran TPS holders would cost at least $3.1 billion. American firms could also see their retention costs increase, as the loss of this population would generate almost $1 billion in turnover costs. Congress currently has provided 4 TPS-specific legislative vehicles in the House, both Republican and Democratic, to provide protection from deportation, and to varying degrees, pathways to permanent residency. Despite current efforts, the upcoming deadlines for Sudan (November 2, 2018), Nicaragua (January 5, 2019), Haiti (July 22, 2019) and El Salvador (September 9, 2019), would suggest that an immediate legislative fix is not possible for any TPS recipients facing deportation in the short-term future. Given these extraordinary circumstances, we respectfully request that the following language be inserted for the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill: None of the funds appropriated by this Act or prior acts may be obligated or expended to apprehend, detain, or remove from the United States any alien who was granted Temporary Protected Status under Section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or granted Deferred Enforced Departure provided by the Presidential Directive issued on September 28, 2016, or eligible for either status, on January 1, 2017, if the alien lost their temporary protected status, or deferred enforced departure, solely as a direct or indirect result of any action taken by the Secretary of Homeland Security, the President, or any other Federal official with respect to such program or presidential directive, and not for any other reason. Providing this critical language will help establish a sense of Congress’ ability to address this issue and provide the necessary time for the legislative process to provide the appropriate protections needed for TPS and DED holders. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Elijah E. Cummings Alcee L. Hastings Yvette D. Clarke Eliot L. Engel Adam Smith Mark DeSaulnier Eleanor Holmes Norton Norma J. Torres James P. McGovern Sheila Jackson Lee Raúl M. Grijalva Adriano Espaillat Kathleen M. Rice Michael E. Capuano André Carson Ro Khanna Albio Sires Jan Schakowsky Terri A. Sewell Dina Titus Jimmy Gomez Grace F. Napolitano Jamie Raskin Beto O’Rourke Pramila Jayapal Keith Ellison Dwight Evans John Lewis Zoe Lofgren Danny K. Davis Michelle Lujan Grisham Linda T. Sánchez Brenda L. Lawrence Nanette Diaz Barragán Diana DeGette Bennie Thompson Jimmy Panetta Stacey E. Plaskett Donald M. Payne, Jr. ###
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C.— As the Trump Administration puts environmental funding on the chopping block, today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 73 bipartisan Members of Congress in urging the federal government to provide the necessary funding to continue the cleanup of federally designated Superfund sites. To earn Superfund status under the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a site must be contaminated by hazardous waste and classified as a risk to human and environmental health—labeling it a priority for cleanup. Velázquez’s district contains three Superfund sites: the Gowanus Canal; Newtown Creek; and the Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. “By securing Superfund status, the federal government made a pledge to invest in cleaning up waste deemed so toxic that it poses grave environmental and health risks to our communities,” said Velázquez. “By failing to provide adequate funding, the Trump Administration is starving the Superfund program of vital resources—leaving local families and businesses to suffer the consequences of prolonged inaction.” Despite a recent increase in the number of Superfund sites, the program’s budget has steadily decreased since 2010. In 2010, during the Obama Administration, $1.31 billion was requested and enacted to clean up Superfunds under the Hazardous Substance Superfund Account. However, in his proposed 2019 budget, President Trump has requested less—$1.09 billion. In the letter, Velázquez is calling instead for $1.35 billion to be allocated to cleanup Superfunds in 2019. The letter has been endorsed by prominent environmental groups including the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and the Sierra Club. "Secretary Pruitt has repeatedly tried to elevate Superfund cleanup as a top priority for his EPA— but has yet again requested an inadequate Superfund budget and tried to undermine health protections that are key to the Program,” said Scott Slesinger, Legislative Director at NRDC. “This is unacceptable.” "If we truly want to prioritize protecting the health of our families and our communities by cleaning up Superfund sites, we need to invest in the Superfund program -- not cut it,” said Michael Brune, Executive Director of the Sierra Club. “We applaud Representative Velázquez and all of the bipartisan supporters backing this common-sense proposal to help protect the growing number of communities facing these toxic threats.” Throughout her tenure in Congress, Velázquez has been a vocal advocate of environmental protection. In 2010, she helped to secure Superfund designation for the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek, and in 2014, for Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. Velázquez’s environmental record has earned her a 100% score on the League of Conservation Voters 2017 scorecard. A copy of the full letter is below. For a PDF, click here. The Honorable Ken Calvert The Honorable Betty McCollum Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies and Related Agencies 2007 Rayburn House Office Building 2256 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Calvert & Ranking Member McCollum, As your Subcommittee considers the Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19) Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, we respectfully request you to include $1.35 billion in funding for the Hazardous Substance Superfund Account. This account has not received a budget increase since FY 2010, when it was enacted at $1.31 billion. The proposed FY 2019 budget decreases funding to $1.09 billion. Meanwhile, the number of Superfund sites has grown from 1,282 to 1,341 in the past eight years. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) designates Superfund sites as any land in the United States that has been contaminated by hazardous waste, and is a risk to human health and the environment. These sites are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). The NPL has over 1,100 sites in the U.S. with known releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants. The long-term health challenges, business disruption and displacement costs are harmful to residents and U.S. small businesses affected by hazardous contamination. Revitalizing contaminated land improves the quality of life for communities around the United States and is part of EPA’s core mission. We look forward to working with you both to ensure adequate funding for the Hazardous Substance Superfund Account and successfully revitalize contaminated areas of our country. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7) Member of Congress Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Rep. Alma Adams (NC-12), Rep. Nanette Barragán (CA-44), Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37), Rep. Ami Bera M.D. (CA-7), Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), Rep. Blumenauer (OR-3), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (Guam), Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26), Rep. Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Rep. Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Rep. André Carson (IN-07), Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27), Rep Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Rep. Chris Collins (NY-27), Rep. J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-5), Rep. Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Rep Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Rep. Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2), Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07, Rep. Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Rep. Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5), Rep. Al Green (TX-09), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-4), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Rep. James Langevin (RI-2), Rep. Al Lawson (FL-5), Rep. Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2), Rep. William R. Keating (MA-9), Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17), Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-3), Rep. Ben Ray Luján (NM-3), Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Rep. Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Donald McEachin (VA-04), Rep. James P. McGovern (MA-2), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (FL-7) Rep. Nadler (NY-10), Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Rep. Richard E. Neal (MA-1), Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-1), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-6), Rep. Kathleen M. Rice (NY-4), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-1), Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-3), Rep. Terri A. Sewell (AL-07), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-8), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9), Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-4), Rep. Darren Soto (FL-9), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (NY-03), Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35), Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Rep. Peter Welch (VT-AL), Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24) ###
03.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led Democratic Member of the New York City Congressional delegation in calling for additional funds for the nation’s Public Housing Authorities. In a letter to Congressional appropriators, Velázquez and her colleagues asked that $5 billion be provided for the Public Housing Capital Fund, with $600 million of those resources to be targeted toward capital repairs related to mold, deteriorating lead-based paint and other hazards. “Access to livable, affordable housing is a fundamental right and for far too long this priority has been underfunded,” Velázquez noted. “With reports of lead-based paint and mold at NYCHA units, it is vital there be adequate federal funding allocated to ensure residents’ units are free of unsafe hazards.” The lawmakers’ letter also calls for fully funding the Public Housing Operating Fund based on the housing agencies’ needs. The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. March 19, 2018 The Honorable Mario Diaz-Balart Chairman Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations United States Congress 440 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable David Price Ranking Member Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations United States Congress 2108 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chair Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price: As the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (T-HUD) begins its important work on Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 funding, we urge you to restore funding for the Public Housing Capital and Operating Funds. We cannot wait any longer to preserve the nation’s most at-risk public housing and improve the health and safety of tens of thousands of residents. Federal funding created public housing and is critical to maintaining it in a decent and safe condition for our nation’s most vulnerable families with children, elderly, and people with disabilities. This investment requires a robust FY 2019 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development and Related Agencies (T-HUD) 302(b) subcommittee allocation and we urge the Appropriation Committee to increase the allocation. We urge you to halt the deterioration of public housing infrastructure by providing at least $5 billion to the Public Housing Capital Fund. At least $600 million of the increased funding should be strategically targeted to capital repairs related to mold, deteriorating lead-based paint, and other hazards that would improve the health of public housing residents. For example, the root cause of mold infestations in public housing includes leaky roofs, crumbling exterior bricks, and old piping. Addressing these issues could improve the health and quality of life for tens of thousands of children, the elderly, and disabled residents. Additionally, collaboration between Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Health and Human Services would allow agencies to measure the health impacts and federal cost savings from such a capital investment. We also urge you to fund the Public Housing Operating Fund at 100 percent proration in order to address the estimated annual operating costs. Funding public housing agencies at 100 percent of the funding needed according to formula would allow PHAs to respond more quickly and efficiently to health and safety-related maintenance issues. Without these investments to fill critical funding gaps, public housing authorities across the country are at risk of losing valuable housing units at a faster rate than our current annual loss of 10,000 units per year, and add exponentially to the 200,000 units that have been lost since 2010. After years of underfunding public housing we are at a cross-road; we can invest and preserve our nation’s valuable public housing or we can choose to lose public housing units due to underfunding, decay, and neglect. We urge you to increase funding to preserve public housing. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Gregory W. Meeks Carolyn B. Maloney Eliot L. Engel Yvette D. Clarke Adriano Espaillat Jerrold Nadler Joseph Crowley Hakeem Jeffries José E. Serrano Grace Meng ###
03.17.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on the passing of New York City architect Ricky Leung: “Ricky Leung was an architect who understood that when we design buildings or plan neighborhoods, our foremost concern should be people and communities, not money. I remember fondly bringing him to Congress to testify on the importance of the Section 8 program. “Ricky will be profoundly missed. The architecture community in New York has lost a talented, creative professional and our City has lost a stalwart voice for affordable housing. I considered Ricky a friend and my thoughts are with all those who knew and loved him.” ###
03.16.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (D-NY): “Louise was a champion for working people, an advocate for justice and a trailblazer and inspiration for women everywhere. In the Rules Committee, she was a fierce fighter for Democratic policies and, equally important, for preserving a fair, open legislative process and the House’s traditions. “Congress will certainly be a little less colorful a place without seeing Louise on the floor, leading debates on rules with her Kentucky accent and unrivaled commitment to progressive values. My heart breaks for this loss and I’m thinking of Louise’s family, friends, her staff and all those who knew and loved her.” ###
03.13.2018	New York, NY – Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) commented on the East River helicopter crash: “This crash is another tragic reminder that these helicopter tourist flights pose significant public safety risks to our community. At minimum, these flights should be suspended until there can be an exhaustive review of the safety hazards of operating these flights in such a congested urban airspace. “Not only do these helicopter flights present safety dangers, but, as we have repeatedly noted before, they also cause significant noise pollution in Manhattan and Brooklyn communities. Following this tragedy, we once again – as we have many times before -- call on the FAA, the City and municipalities in New Jersey to ban helicopter flights over Manhattan and Brooklyn. Helicopter tourism flights are simply a bad fit for airspace above the most densely populated city in the U.S.” ###
03.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after the tragic death of a pedestrian who was fatally hit by a vehicle in front of 1150 Metropolitan Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. “My heart is broken once again after another tragic pedestrian fatality in Brooklyn. My thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of the victim and with our entire community during this time. “However, as I have said previously, words of sympathy are not enough. While not all the facts are yet public and the NYPD is still investigating, we must keep advocating for additional safety measures. To this end, I will continue working across levels of government to make our streets safer.” ###
03.06.2018	Washington, DC – The House Financial Services Committee has approved two amendments authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today by voice vote. The provisions were adopted as part of the Committee’s Views and Estimates on the Budget for fiscal year 2019. “Housing issues are crucially important to all New Yorkers,” said Velázquez. “I believe my amendments will make important improvements for renters and public housing residents living throughout the City,” Velázquez’s first amendment would ensure that the Financial Services Committee conducts forceful oversight of landlords participating in the Section 8 program, to make sure they follow rules set out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and to prevent abuse of tenants. “We’ve heard numerous stories of deceitful landlords intentionally allowing units to fall into disrepair to force families out, jack up rents and make more money,” Velázquez noted. “This amendment would make certain that HUD and the Committee work together to proactively prevent such egregious acts.” Velázquez’s second amendment requires that the Committee look into targeted funding for capital repairs and upgrades in public housing facilities like the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA). Velázquez has noted that inadequate investment in public housing infrastructure has resulted in serious health problems for residents. Additionally, Velázquez warned of the stark cuts to public housing included in the Trump Administration’s FY 2019 budget proposal. Specifically, Trump has proposed cuts to HUD’s budget by 24.1 percent compared to current levels, the elimination of funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund and cuts to the Public Housing Operating Fund. “While President Trump is quick to express his fondness of New York City, his budget proposal proves that he is willing to leave many of our most vulnerable New Yorkers behind,” said Velázquez. “Instead of cutting funding for public housing, we must invest in much-needed repairs and oversight so hardworking families get the resources they deserve.” Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the Financial Services Committee and the only New York City Member of Congress to serve on the Housing Subcommittee. ###
03.06.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after the tragic death of two small children, 4-year old Abigail Blumenstein and 18-month old Joshua Lew, who were killed by a driver while crossing 9th Street at 5th Avenue in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Abigail’s mother, Ruthie Ann Blumstein who is pregnant, was also hit, but is reported to be in stable condition. “This is every parent’s worst nightmare, and my heart is shattered for the mothers, their loved ones and for our community. These young children had their entire lives ahead. As our community gathers in the wake of such tragedy, I share their grief and their pain. “As lawmakers, the safety of our children must be our top priority. To this end, I had previously fought to secure funding for the Safe Routes to Schools program, which identifies schools in need of safety improvements. Specifically, I worked to get safety measures near P.S. 124, located just a block away from this horrific accident, included. “While we know that some improvements were made, it was not enough. Knowing that our city’s pedestrian deaths have dropped feels empty when two young, innocent lives were stolen in this devastating crash. We must take immediate steps to extend the intersection’s sidewalks, give pedestrians more time to safely cross the street and increase awareness and enforcement of safety precautions. “Though these measures may not have prevented this horrific accident, we must be sure to implement as many safety measures as possible. As more details of this crash start to surface, nothing can take away the pain of a grieving parent. However, those involved must be held accountable. To this end, the NYPD must investigate the driver’s behavior.” ###
03.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement six months after President Trump made the cruel decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and after Republicans’ failure to pass a bipartisan solution. “By terminating DACA, President Trump and Congressional Republicans have not only created a crisis for Dreamers—they’ve prolonged it. At every chance, Democrats have extended a hand to the President. We have offered bipartisan solutions to give Dreamers the chance they deserve—a chance to live the American dream. “Six months ago, the President told Dreamers that they did not have reason to worry because he has a big heart. Yet, President Trump’s brash and empty rhetoric has proven that he is only interested in obstructing bipartisan solutions. Meanwhile, an estimated 20,000 DACA recipients have already lost their status—a number that is expected to grow exponentially each day that Congress fails to act. “It is time for the President and Republicans to listen to the majority of Americans who believe that Congress must act to protect Dreamers. We need an up-or-down vote on legislation to codify DACA into law. These incredible young people are the face of America, and they are our future.” ###
03.01.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 10 members of the New York City Congressional delegation in expressing concerns over the impact of President Trump’s proposed budget cuts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the impact they will have on the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), and the future they will have on the Section 8 Program in New York City. The Trump Administration’s budget proposes slashing HUD’s overall budget for FY 2019 by $8.8 billion, which is an 18.3% decrease from 2017 enacted levels. NYCHA —the largest public housing authority in the country--provides safe and affordable housing to more than 400,000 individuals and families in 325 public housing developments across the City’s five boroughs. In a letter to Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, the lawmakers warn of the devastation that such severe budget cuts would have on the City’s public housing and Section 8 residents. The letter was signed by New York City Reps. Gregory W. Meeks, Carolyn B. Maloney, José E. Serrano, Eliot L. Engel, Yvette D. Clarke, Adriano Espaillat, Jerrold Nadler, Joseph Crowley, Grace Meng and Hakeem Jeffries. More than half a million New Yorkers rely on NYCHA and the Section 8 program as source of quality, affordable housing. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. March 1, 2018 Honorable Ben Carson Secretary United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director United States Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 Dear Secretary Carson and Director Mulvaney: We write to you on a matter of pressing concern for the New York City Housing Authority (“NYCHA”) and the future of affordable housing in New York City. NYCHA is the largest public housing authority in the nation and provides safe and affordable housing to more than 400,000 individuals and families in 325 public housing developments across the City’s five boroughs. NYCHA residents are diverse, including seniors, people with disabilities, those who were formerly homeless, as well as people with full time jobs. In addition to being the nation’s largest public housing authority, NYCHA also administers the nation’s largest Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher (“Section 8”) Program. NYCHA’s sister agency, the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (“HPD”) — the largest municipal housing perseveration and development agency in the country, charged with promoting quality and affordable housing throughout New York City — also oversees a large Section 8 program. Combined, these two programs provide more than 125,000 vouchers, making New York City the largest concentration of Section 8 voucher holders anywhere in the United States. President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year (“FY”) 2019 proposed Budget Request for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) threatens the very future of the housing authority, the Section 8 program, and more than half a million New Yorkers that rely on these programs as a reliable source for quality, affordable housing. New York City is only growing and becoming more difficult to find affordable housing. Now is not the time to disinvest further and risk losing valuable public housing. Our future economic growth is directly connected to our ability to adequately provide affordable housing for our working families and seniors. Unfortunately, however, budget documents revealed by the White House earlier this month indicate the Trump Administration is considering slashing HUD’s overall budget for FY 2019 by $8.8 billion, which is an 18.3% decrease from FY 2017 enacted levels. The Budget severely cuts or woefully funds key affordable housing accounts and programs. For example, the President’s Budget Request completely eliminates funding for HUD’s Public Housing Capital Fund, which is the main source of funding NYCHA and other public housing authorities rely on to address necessary infrastructure upgrades such as roofs, boilers and elevators. The President’s Budget Request similarly cuts the Public Housing Operating Fund to $2.8 billion, or by more than one third over FY 2017 enacted levels. If enacted, these cuts will mean residents will have to wait longer for basic services such as apartment repairs, and will have an undoubtable impact on their safety and security. These budget cuts threaten the very future of affordable housing in New York City. As applied to NYCHA, a $2.8 billion cut to the Public Housing Operating Fund would result in fewer maintenance staff, longer response times for completing apartment repairs, and an acceleration the deterioration of units. Worse, completely eliminating funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund will cause NYCHA to lose approximately $346 million in key financing and would prevent NYCHA from keeping current on basic building upgrades, much less moving forward on the authority’s five-year capital plan. Cuts to HUD would also exacerbate NYCHA’s $17 billion capital needs backlog and intensify the public health crisis facing its residents. Due to years of underinvestment, recent estimates indicate that NYCHA has a $17 billion backlog in needed major capital improvements and repairs. As a result, far too many residents residing in approximately 178,000 NYCHA apartments are struggling with sub-standard living conditions. Excessive moisture in NYCHA buildings due to leaky roofs, crumbling bricks, and old piping has contributed to well publicized mold issues in NYCHA units. This is particularly problematic for residents with asthma, as these conditions may aggravate symptoms, which has been found at a higher rate among public housing residents than among other populations of the city. In fact, one study found that asthma prevalence among low-income children is nearly two times higher than rates among other children across New York City. Moreover, the President’s Budget Request reduces funding for the Section 8 Program, requesting approximately $19.3 billion, or $977 million less, than FY 2017 enacted levels. The President’s Budget Request would also cause New York City to lose approximately 15,000 Section 8 HCVs. Not only would 15,000 individuals and families lose their ability to pay rent, landlords would immediately lose the income provided by the Section 8 program as well. But as devastating as these budget cuts appear to be, perhaps worse are the legislative reforms President Trump is proposing for these vital programs, including increasing tenant rent contributions and allowing public housing authorities and even some private owners to implement time limits and work requirements for “work-able residents”. These proposals will likely lead to significant increases in monthly rents for New Yorkers already struggling to make ends meet and could force them to choose between paying rent and paying for other vital necessities like nutritious food and healthcare. For decades, the federal government alongside housing experts and advocates have all agreed that paying more than 30 percent of a family’s income to rent was a burden. Now, with this Budget Request, President Trump is walking away from that commitment and, once again, showing that he is out of touch with most Americans’ experience. We urge you to reconsider these legislative reforms and not to cut funding to our nation’s public and affordable housing programs, which have been squeezed for years by sequestration caps. NYCHA receives approximately 70 percent of its operating funding and almost all of its capital repair funding from HUD and the impact of these cuts to working individuals and families in NYCHA units could be dire. HUD’s programs are vital to the future stability and sustainability of NYCHA and other public housing authorities around the country. Instead, we urge you to propose targeted increases to HUD’s public housing programs in order to improve the lives and living conditions for NYCHA residents, Section 8 voucher holders, and all those who rely on HUD’s affordable housing programs for their livelihoods. As a former real estate developer, in New York City, President Trump should understand the fundamental role NYCHA plays in our city and how a targeted investment strategy to HUD’s public housing programs could not only improve the lives and living conditions for NYCHA residents, but could also be an engine for job creation and urban revitalization. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter.
02.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision not to hear the Trump Administration’s appeal on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): “Today’s decision offers a brief reprieve by ensuring current recipients of DACA may continue submitting renewal applications, as long as the 9th Circuit Court injunction remains intact. However, this is by no means a permanent solution. It remains urgent that Congress hold these young people harmless by passing a long-term fix. Congressional Republicans and the Trump Administration must stop standing in the way of legislative efforts to remedy this situation once and for all.” ###
02.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in the wake of the tragic school shooting in Parkland, Florida. “No family should ever have to endure the horror of losing a child or loved one. On February 14th, the lives of 17 students and educators were taken by a senseless act of gun violence in Parkland, Florida. New Yorkers and Americans across the country are heartbroken by this tragedy – but they are also demanding real action. “The brave young student survivors of Parkland are becoming an important clarion call, demanding gun control laws and, for my part, I will continue to support their efforts in Congress. I believe that assault rifles are weapons of war and have no place in our communities. That’s why I support legislation to ban assault weapons, gun silencers and bump stocks. “In addition to removing these dangerous firearms from stores, Congress must take steps to crack down on the iron pipeline of out-of-state guns that are funneled into places like New York. I have introduced legislation that would mandate new technology to identify weapons, allowing law enforcement to trace the origin of guns used in violent crimes. I will also continue to advocate for my bill that taxes guns and uses the revenue to fund gun violence research—something that the gun lobby has resisted for years. “The National Rifle Association has consistently given me an ‘F Rating’ on their voting scorecard – and I’ve never been more proud to earn the disapproval of an organization. While it is tragically too late for the victims of the Parkland shooting and far too many other school massacres, it is not too late for Congress to take action. Indeed, we have a moral obligation to do so, immediately.” 維樂貴絲就佛州槍擊及槍支管控改革發表聲明 【首府華盛頓訊】聯邦眾議員維樂貴絲（Nydia M. Velázquez，紐約州民主黨）今天就佛羅里達州帕克蘭市發生的校園槍擊發表以下聲明。 “任何家庭都不應該經歷喪失孩子或親人的痛苦。但在2月14日，卻有17名學生和教師在佛州帕克蘭市一場冷血槍擊中喪生。紐約乃至全美國的民眾無不因此心碎，而且他們更高聲疾呼要求改變現況。” “帕克蘭市槍擊案中，勇敢的倖存學生正在成為一個重要的號角，要求當局就控制槍支立法，而我將在國會繼續支持他們的行動。我相信衝鋒槍是戰爭的武器，根本不應該出現在我們的社區。因此我一直大力支持立法禁止攻擊性武器、槍支消音器和撞火槍托等產品。” “除了從商店中移除這些危險的槍支外，國會還必須採取措施，打擊流入紐約等地外來槍支。我已經提出立法草案要求以新技術識別武器，使得執法部門人員能夠追查暴力犯罪中的槍支來源。 我還會繼續推廣我們另一個草案，即對槍支徵稅和利用所得來資助槍支暴力研究 ，過往多年來槍支遊說組織一直抵制這些立法。” “全國步槍協會在他們的投票記分卡上長期給我F評級，但事實上，我反而是因為獲得他們的差評和如此一個組織的反對而感到自豪。儘管對於佛州槍擊案及許多校園大屠殺的蒙難者而言，任何行動都已無可補救，但國會採取行動還是為時不晚。事實上，我們有道義責任馬上採取行動。” ###
02.23.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement as the United States Supreme Court prepares to hear oral arguments on February 26th in the case Janus v. AFSCME Council 31. “Throughout American history, unions have played a pivotal role in helping working people improve their workplaces, provide for their families and pursue the American dream. When union membership is high, entire communities are more prosperous. “Sadly, Janus v. AFSCME was brought forth by billionaires with the goal of making it harder for working people to stick together. Let’s be clear: this is an underhanded, cynical effort to deprive public sector workers of their ability to negotiate higher wages, benefits and workplace protections. “This is a conniving attempt to dilute union membership and disempower workers. I will continue to fight for an economy that works for all Americans—not just corporate interests. It is my hope that the Supreme Court rejects this ill-conceived case.” ###
02.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after Special Counsel Robert Mueller released indictments against 13 Russian nationals and 3 Russian entities for violating U.S. law, including intentionally interfering with American elections. “It should now be abundantly clear to every American that Russia actively sought to undermine our democracy and will continue to do so. “This indictment focuses on Russia’s efforts to shape public opinion via social media. The totality of Russia’s efforts to influence our elections – and whether some Americans may have cooperated in those efforts - have not yet been revealed, which is why it is so critical the Special Counsel’s investigation continue unimpeded. In addition, the White House’s longstanding attempts to discredit the Special Counsel are undermining our democratic institutions and those disingenuous tactics must end. “Elections are a sacred institution of our democracy, and all those who sought to interfere with them, whether Americans or not, must be brought to justice.” In December of 2016, in a letter to outgoing Attorney General Lynch, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel. ###
02.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement recognizing the start of the Lunar New Year. “As families gather in the coming weeks, let me wish a joyous celebration to all those observing the Lunar New Year. A time to honor ancestors, bring life to cherished traditions and celebrate a year full of hard work, may this Year of the Dog create many new memories. “For generations, New York’s Asian communities have been central to our vibrant cultural tapestry. I wish all my friends and neighbors good luck and prosperity in the New Year.” ###
02.14.2018	QUEENS, NY – U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-Queens) and Nydia M. Velázquez (D-Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan) yesterday sent a letter to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) urging an inspection of the highway-rail crossings in Maspeth after crossing signals failed to activate at the intersection of 56th Street and Flushing Avenue. “The Federal Railroad Administration must immediately send an inspector to investigate the highway-rail crossings in Maspeth after this dangerous incident,” said Rep. Meng. “There is a history of crossing gate and signal malfunctions in the Maspeth community, and the FRA must investigate these issues with all due haste. I thank Councilman Robert Holden for bringing this incident to my attention and Congresswoman Velázquez for joining me in this effort.” “It’s deeply concerning that a train would go through this intersection without any crossing signals activating, leaving no warning for pedestrians or motorists,” said Rep. Velázquez. “Maspeth is a significant hub for rail traffic and we need to ensure that the Federal Railroad Administration carefully examines all the rail crossings in this community, before an accident occurs, so residents can feel safe walking about or driving in their own neighborhood.” At 3:45pm on Sunday afternoon, Christina Wilkinson, President of Citizens for a Better Maspeth, was walking down Flushing Avenue when a train crossed the intersection of 56th Street and Flushing Avenue without the crossing signals activating or any rail personnel stopping traffic at the intersection. She reported this incident to Councilman Holden. The intersection does not contain crossing gates, making operational crossing signals essential for the safety of pedestrians and drivers in the area. This incident follows gate and signal malfunctions at the Maspeth Avenue and Rust Street crossing only a few blocks away. A copy of the letter can be found here. Text of the correspondence is included below. ------------------------------------------ February 12, 2018 Mr. Juan D. Reyes III Acting Deputy Administrator Federal Railroad Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Acting Deputy Administrator Reyes: We write to express our grave concern about the safety of highway-rail crossings in the Maspeth neighborhood of Queens, New York. In particular, we write to request an inspection of the crossing signals located at the intersection of 56th Street and Flushing Avenue in Maspeth. New York City Council Member Robert Holden relayed to us that Christina Wilkinson, the President of Citizens for a Better Maspeth, was walking down Flushing Avenue at 3:45pm yesterday afternoon when a train crossed the intersection of 56th Street and Flushing Avenue without the crossing signals activating or any rail personnel stopping traffic at the intersection. Ms. Wilkerson’s experience is extremely concerning given the absence of crossing gates at the intersection, as well as the recent history of gate and signal malfunctions at Maspeth Avenue and Rust Street only a few blocks away. Respectfully, we request that a Federal Railroad Administration Signal and Train Control Inspector inspect the highway-rail crossings in the Maspeth community immediately. We also ask that you relay the inspector’s findings to us as quickly as possible. We thank you for your attention to this matter, and eagerly await your response. Sincerely, ________________________________ __________________________________ Nydia Velázquez Grace Meng Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: Robert F. Holden, New York City Council Member Christina Wilkinson, President of Citizens for a Better Maspeth # # #
02.12.2018	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget proposal: “In almost every area, the budget released today constitutes an assault on New York’s working families. Six weeks after passage of the Republicans’ Tax Scam, the President is now suggesting older Americans and middle-class families should shoulder the burden of this giveaway to the wealthy, through devastating cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. As part of this attack on healthcare, the budget cuts $1.4 trillion from Medicaid over a decade, imperiling care for seniors in nursing homes, children with disabilities and low-income families. The Trump Administration has also proposed limiting patient access to certain classes of drugs and instead puts insurers in control of the options available and their pricing. “In the area of housing, the President proposes slashing HUD’s budget by 14 percent. Such a reduction would mean a major loss for both Section 8 recipients and greater disinvestment in already neglected public housing projects. Appallingly, this budget would completely eliminate the Community Development Block Grant initiative, which provided over $189 million for New York City projects in 2015 alone. This program was instrumental in recovery efforts from Superstorm Sandy. “Moreover, the Trump budget callously targets for elimination services that help families who are struggling to get by. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program would be slashed by $213 billion, and benefits paid to families through the Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit would be reduced by $10 billion. It is morally unconscionable that the President would literally take money from hungry children and seniors to help finance tax breaks for the wealthiest among us. “This proposal would slash the Environmental Protection Agency’s resources by a quarter, gravely damaging programs we need to address the long-term threat of climate change and, in the immediate term, keep our air and water clean, while helping remediate local environmental eyesores. “On every count, this budget fails Americans and New Yorkers. Yet, despite all its cuts to the vital programs and services, if ever enacted, the Trump budget would also mean $7 trillion in additional deficit spending over the next 10 years, which speaks to this Administration’s recklessness and inability to govern. Thankfully, the Trump budget will almost certainly be rejected out of hand, as it contradicts the budget agreement that was passed by Congress and signed into law last week. I will continue fighting to oppose these proposed cuts and support a budget that reflects the American people’s priorities.” # # #
02.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding government funding legislation to be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives today: “I will be voting against this legislation. The fact is we have a solemn obligation to protect the hundreds of thousands of young Dreamers whose futures Donald Trump has targeted and is holding hostage for his foolish, hateful wall. This bill provided a rare window to remedy this situation and ensure these young people, who are American in every way but on paper, remain here, in the only country that they have ever called home. Yet House Republicans would not even provide a firm assurance that they will allow a fair debate on immigration legislation, something the Senate Republican leadership has promised. “Voting against the funding contained in this legislation is not, however, perfectly simple. This legislation contains badly needed disaster assistance for Puerto Rico, something I and many of my New York constituents care deeply about. New York City and Puerto Rico have always shared a profound bond and we are deeply vested in helping the Island recover from Maria. I want to thank Leaders Schumer and Pelosi for their tireless efforts to boost the disaster funding for Puerto Rico in this bill. Regardless of this bill’s fate, I will continue fighting for more assistance and will not rest until Puerto Rico is made whole. “I would also observe that this legislation funds programs important to New York’s working families. Overall, this measure includes a $131 billion increase for non-defense programs, funding government services vital to our communities. It includes a two-year reauthorization for Community Health Centers, with more than $7 billion in total funding. It also extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program for ten years, ensuring parents around the nation can secure healthcare for their kids. It would allocate $20 billion for infrastructure, helping to shore up our ailing roads, bridges and public transit. Democratic Leaders in Congress should be applauded for securing these provisions through the process of painstaking negotiation. “However, despite all the positive elements in this package, in the final analysis, I feel morally compelled to stand with the young Dreamers who are imperiled by this Administration’s hateful, irresponsible policies. I could not look in the eye the young New York City Dreamers who are our neighbors, if I abandoned them by voting for this bill. Voting against this bill – and its funding for Puerto Rico and important domestic programs -- is not easy, but, on balance, it is the right thing to do. We are elected to take tough votes and, ultimately, this is the correct decision for my constituents, my district and, the nation.” ###
02.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced that multiple local early education centers within New York’s 7th Congressional district have received federal grants to bolster their Head Start programs. Around the country, Head Start centers support low-income children and their families by providing comprehensive early childhood education, health and nutrition services. “No parent should lose sleep worrying that their child will miss out on a safe and nurturing early childhood education,” said Velázquez. “I am proud that each of these educational centers is receiving funding to continue their life-changing mission of serving our City’s working families.” A grant has been awarded to United Academy in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The Academy will receive $1,187,462 in federal funding. The funding will ensure the organization can continue making important health and educational programs available to Williamsburg’s children. Also located in Williamsburg, Yeshiva Kehilath Yakove is a Jewish learning center and will be receiving two grants of $1,389,643 and $1,169,551 to continue to fund their Head Start program. Educational Alliance located on the Lower East Side will be receiving $2,305,544 for their Head Start program. A progressive early learning center, Educational Alliance actively works to meet the needs of working families. The Catholic Charities Neighborhood Service has been awarded $2,660,211 to continue to provide high-quality educational services to local children in Brooklyn. Harnessing the Montessori holistic approach to early learning, their program features hands-on age appropriate opportunities for children from birth to age seven. The center also provides Montessori training to their early childhood staff. “Time and again, studies have shown the tremendous impact that a high-quality early education has in terms of success later in life,” said Velázquez. “The work of Head Start is instrumental in shaping the next generation of leaders. In a climate of threatened budget cuts, I will remain a steadfast champion of the Head Start program.”
02.06.2018	Washington, DC –Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed a bill authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) that would honor the groundbreaking life of Mabel Lee by naming a Chinatown post office in Lee’s memory. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 4463 would rename a Post Office at 6 Doyers Street in Manhattan’s Chinatown, the “Mabel Lee Memorial Post Office.” “I am proud that efforts to honor Mabel Lee are moving through Congress,” said Velázquez. “Mabel Lee was a pioneering figure who spoke out in the classroom and organized Chinese-American women to secure the right to vote. Her name deserves to be prominently displayed in the community, and the Committee’s passage today brings us one step closer to achieving this.” Throughout her life, Lee was a dedicated champion for women’s rights and the Chinese-American community. As the first Chinese woman to receive a PhD from Columbia University, Lee spent her life fighting for women’s suffrage, Chinatown’s residents and the greater New York community. “At a time when women were widely expected to spend a life in the home, Lee shattered one glass-ceiling after another,” said Velázquez. “Lee’s bold vision for Chinatown is very much alive in our community today.” Working to improve her community, Lee tirelessly organized classes for Chinatown’s residents to build skills in areas such as carpentry, radio and typewriting. Moreover, Lee was just 22 years old and a recent graduate of Barnard College when she led a contingent of Chinese and Chinese-American women in a May 1917 pro-suffrage parade in New York City. Velázquez’s bill passed the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform under unanimous consent. The bill must now be brought to the House floor for a vote. ###
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on a report in the New York Times regarding FEMA rewarding and then voiding a contract for emergency food delivery in Puerto Rico to a one-person firm with a history of previous botched contracts: “This is the latest example of how the Trump Administration has repeatedly failed the people of Puerto Rico and bungled its response to this historic disaster. "Whether it was the delay before dispatching the USNS Comfort, the gap before appointing a ‘czar’ to oversee the military portion of the response, previous FEMA contracting failures related to tarp distribution or any other countless examples, the fact is this Administration has let down 3.3 million American citizens as they suffer through a humanitarian crisis. “Now, we find that food delivery may have been delayed because FEMA chose to contract for 30 million meals with a company that was, by any standard, ill-equipped for the task and that already had a questionable record of federal contracts. “There needs to be accountability. I will continue following up on this issue and thank my Democratic colleagues on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for seeking answers to how this happened.” Democrats on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee today requested that their Committee issue subpoenas related to the Trump Administration’s handling of the disaster response in Puerto Rico. ###
02.06.2018	Introduces Private Bill Protecting NYC Community Advocate from Deportation Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) took legislative action to grant legal status to prominent local immigrant rights advocate, Ravi Ragbir. Ragbir was recently released from detention by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), yet, he continues to face an uncertain future and possible removal. In response, Velázquez has introduced a private bill, H.R. 4937, which would grant Ragbir legal permanent status, and in the case of his deportation, a legal right to return to the United States. “The outrage after ICE detained Ravi is a testament to his status as a community pillar,” noted Velázquez. “Ravi poses no danger to anyone and, in fact, has dedicated himself to helping others. Threats to deport him are nonsensical and inhumane. My bill puts our community’s support into legislative action. If enacted, it would allow Ravi to stay in the U.S. and, should he be removed, establishes a legal mechanism for him to return.” Currently, Ragbir faces potential deportation as early as February 10, 2018. During a routine check-in with ICE on January 11, 2018, Ragbir was detained and taken into custody. On January 29th, Ragbir’s lawyers won his release from jail when a federal court judge in Manhattan described Ragbir’s detention as “unnecessarily cruel.” Ragbir was granted a stay of deportation by a New Jersey judge previously. He has another hearing before the New Jersey judge scheduled for Friday. ICE has ordered Ragbir to report for deportation on Saturday. “In addition to providing a potential legislative remedy for Ravi’s supporters to rally around, this bill will also send a signal to ICE and the Courts that Ravi enjoys strong support among the community and elected officials at all levels of government,” said Velázquez. “It is my hope that the Courts and ICE do the humane and right thing by Ravi and this legislation sends them the message that we stand in solidarity with Ravi.” “I cannot fully express the gratitude I feel to Congresswoman Velázquez, for taking a stand against ICE’s efforts to target those standing up for the rights of immigrants,” said Ragbir. “In the absence of just and humane immigration reform, I hope that bills like this will be signed into law to recognize the contributions that immigrants make to this nation. In the meantime, I will continue to organize for all families who face the threat of exile due to this inhumane system.” Kaji Dousa, Co-Chair of the New Sanctuary Coalition Board and Senior Minister, Park Avenue Christian Church, said, “On February 10, ICE intends to exile one of the nation’s most outspoken immigrant leaders, Ravi Ragbir. We commend the action taken by Congresswoman Velázquez and we will continue to work hard to protect Ravi and so many others like him to show ICE that they can try to deport our leaders, but they will never deport the movement.” Velázquez has been a longtime supporter of Ragbir and has sent multiple letters to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and ICE, spoken personally with the Director of ICE to urge Ragbir’s release and has visited him during his detention. Additionally, Amy Gottlieb, Ragbir’s wife, attended the 2018 State of the Union address as a guest of Congresswoman Velázquez. Less than 24 hours after his release from detention, Ragbir was able to accompany Amy to Washington, and attended President Trump’s speech as a guest of Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY). A resident of Brooklyn, Ragbir lives in Velázquez’s Congressional district. # # #
02.02.2018	Call for Inclusion in Other U.S. Statistical Programs Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today led fourteen Members of Congress in expressing concerns over the potential privatization of the Puerto Rico Institute of Statistics (PRIS). In a bipartisan letter to the Office of Management and Budget, the Members of Congress write that the ongoing humanitarian crisis and economic hardship on the Island requires accurate, reliable data and that removing the independence from the PRIS’ functions could undermine the Institute’s credibility. The Members of Congress also ask that Puerto Rico be included in other federal statistical programs to finally close the data gap that exists for Puerto Rico. “Amidst recent news coverage on the intention of Puerto Rico’s government to fold the Puerto Rico Institute of Statistics (PRIS) into the Department of Economic Development and Commerce and allow for the Secretary to privatize PRIS’s core functions, we write to you to express concern over the announcement, and reiterate the importance of the independence of the PRIS,” the letter states. “As it relates to Puerto Rico, the need for public, independent, and unbiased data has never been more acute, particularly as Congress debates disaster supplemental legislation. We urge the inclusion of Puerto Rico in federal statistical programs and surveys carried out by the U.S. Census Bureau and other federal agencies.” A .pdf of the letter is online here. ###
02.02.2018	Salute Trailblazing Career of Federal Reserve Chair Janet YellenWashington, D.C. –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) honored the historic chairwomanship of Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and called for greater participation by women in the U.S. economy. In letters to Yellen authored by Velázquez and Heitkamp, 75 Members of Congress praised the Chair for her stewardship of the economy, championing women’s participation in the workplace, inspiring women to develop careers in economics, and breaking one of the highest glass ceilings in our society. According to a recently released report from S&P Global, the percentage of women in America’s labor force has fallen behind most other developed countries. Furthermore, the report notes that women face barriers to climbing corporate barriers, and often face penalties for taking time to care for their families. According to S&P Global, if American women entered and stayed in the workforce at a pace in line with Norway, the U.S. economy would be $1.6 trillion larger than it is today. “Throughout her groundbreaking career, Chair Yellen has reminded us that when women succeed, our entire economy prospers,” said Velázquez. “From engineering to technology and finance, today, women are breaking down barriers in nearly every industry. Still, widespread challenges to achieving such success persist. We must continue advancing policies that empower women economically, helping to close the wage gap and unlocking opportunity for all women.” “Chair Yellen’s tenure and many accomplishments at the Federal Reserve are an inspiration to women and girls everywhere, and a reminder that women can and must lead – especially at the highest levels of government,” Heitkamp said. “Our economy is stronger when more women are empowered to enter the workforce and become leaders in their fields. Chair Yellen’s leadership at the Fed during a difficult economic recovery will stand as motivation to the next generation of women aspiring to jump-start their careers and succeed in what have historically been male-dominated fields. Young girls need more strong women leaders to look up to, and Chair Yellen will remain a source of motivation to many girls now and in the future.” For a .pdf of the House letter, click here. For a .pdf of the Senate letter, click here.
02.02.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after President Trump approved the release of a memo written by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes: “The release of this partisan spin memo is a disgusting attempt by Republicans to undermine our democracy. It is a sad day when Republicans make the cynical decision to push a misleading narrative in an effort to discredit our national intelligence and law enforcement agencies. “Our nation cannot be fooled. The release of this memo is a flagrant attempt to distract the American people from the facts of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. By green-lighting this release, President Trump has issued yet another attack on our democratic institutions and the rule of law. All investigations into Russia’s attempts to undermine our democracy must be allowed to independently follow the facts.” In December of 2016, in a letter to outgoing Attorney General Lynch, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel. ###
02.01.2018	Washington, DC –Following the Governor’s announcement to privatize the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) wrote today to Governor Ricardo Rosselló requesting additional details on the plan, including assurances on affordable rates and reliable service. “It is evident to us that the current structure of the Island’s utility provider is not ideal. The longstanding disregard and mismanagement by PREPA’s executives of infrastructure and organizational needs has resulted in intermittent service and extraordinary electricity costs,” wrote lawmakers in the letter. “We must make sure that you will have an open and transparent process that informs the people of Puerto Rico about the different options available and that provides safeguards for the environment, collective bargaining, pensions, lower utility rates, and investments for a renewable and resilient energy system.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. February 1, 2018 The Honorable Ricardo A. Rosselló Nevares Governor of Puerto Rico La Fortaleza P.O. Box 9020082 San Juan, PR 00902-0082 Dear Governor Rosselló Nevares, On January 22, 2018, you made an announcement highlighting an intention to privatize the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA).[1] Prior to this announcement, your Administration proposed consolidating into a new agency the following public entities: the Telecommunications Regulatory Board, the Public Service Commission, the Independent Office of Consumer Protection, the Energy Administration of Puerto Rico, and the Puerto Rico Energy Commission (PREC).[2] We are writing to follow-up on these recent announcements and request additional details on the implications of these changes. It is evident to us that the current structure of the Island’s utility provider is not ideal. The longstanding disregard and mismanagement by PREPA’s executives of infrastructure and organizational needs has resulted in intermittent service and extraordinary electricity costs. These known inefficiencies have caused businesses on the Island to be less competitive while fostering widespread disdain for PREPA among individuals and businesses alike. Even now, four months after Hurricanes Irma and Maria first made landfall on Puerto Rico, over 30 percent of the population is still experiencing the vestiges of these inefficiencies. Your message makes numerous promises that are attractive to Puerto Rican businesses and individuals. You indicate that consumers would be able to choose between several options.[3] You have also committed to designate part of the income generated by the privatization of PREPA to capitalize the retirement funds of employees.[4] Most importantly, your message predicts that by privatizing PREPA, Puerto Rico can achieve an unambitious 30 percent renewable energy generation standard and faster responses to natural disasters.[5] While we appreciate you prioritizing these issues, the public needs more detail about how these claims will be realized. Two previous attempts to privatize a utility in Puerto Rico in order to achieve similar benefits have failed. The Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority (PRASA) pursued privatization twice between 1995 and 2004 to improve services and address deep infrastructure issues. The benefits that were promised to ratepayers to justify the privatization did not come to pass. Instead, they resulted in significant costs to the ratepayers who were left to deal with fines, legal fees, unmaintained infrastructure and other costs. A detailed study from the University of Iowa concluded that “Regarding greater efficiency or access to resources which will improve water services, there is no indication that either (contractor) PSG or Ondeo were more efficient, better managers or improved water services more than PRASA. In fact, the opposite was true…There is no indication that either private company that operated in Puerto Rico had access to monies that lead to investments and improvement in the delivery of water services.”[6] Both contracts ended prematurely; the second ended 18 months into a 10-year contract. According to the former head of PRASA’s Board of Directors, PRASA lost $1.1 billion during the first contract alone.[7] Given the persistent opacity in PREPA’s operations and its management’s historic resistance to external oversight, we fear that the risks to ratepayers that come with utility privatization efforts could be multiplied in the absence of proper, independent regulatory oversight and consumer protections. Since you have already formally moved to significantly overhaul the Island’s current energy regulator,[8] we would like more clarity on the guardrails you intend to put in place to prevent any loss of transparency or oversight authority, and how you will ensure the new umbrella agency will follow the direction the PREC has already traced. We are also concerned that the full text of the privatization legislation would come after the Energy Commission is dissolved, enabling private companies and other entities to place superficially attractive bids on PREPA before proper scrutiny and analysis, and before consumers are able to fully assess the impacts of such a proposal. Accordingly, after a careful study of this issue, we request that you respond to the following questions before moving forward with privatization efforts: 1. What analysis of the conditions at PREPA indicate that the failures at PRASA will not be repeated and that promised benefits will be achieved this time? How would those goals be achieved? If the attempts to privatize are unsuccessful or otherwise fail to achieve the promised benefits, how will you ensure the ratepayers of Puerto Rico will not be asked to absorb the resulting costs? Which other models for PREPA reform were considered? 2. How will the Puerto Rican government prioritize transparency during the public-to-private transition, ensuring that the details of all relevant transactions, and execution of all such transactions, are fully and fairly disclosed to the public in a publicly and readily accessible manner? 3. Who will be the persons negotiating the public-to-private transactions on behalf of the Puerto Rican government? 4. How will Puerto Rico ensure it has an enforceable oversight mechanism in contracts with private entities who assume PREPA’s role over energy pricing and other contractual terms governing consumers? 5. Please describe in detail how the new umbrella agency will be an independent, regulatory, oversight body. Please include the ways in which it will absorb the duties of the PREC and regulate the private market for energy in Puerto Rico - much how energy is regulated at the state level - and establish cost controls and efficiency standards, while promoting clean and sustainable energy development in a way that is at least as effective as PREC. 6. Will the government agency contemplated in Question 5 also perform consumer protection duties, or establish an independent office therein whose primary mission is to protect potentially vulnerable and powerless consumers? 7. How will the private entities be required to coordinate and cooperate with water protection, environmental, and public health groups to ensure environmental and health impacts of privatization are minimized? 8. Will the customer contracts with the private entities who assume PREPA’s role contain either: a) arbitration clauses limiting/barring a customer’s right to pursue legal action in court; or b) clauses limiting/barring the right of the customers to bring class action lawsuits? 9. What will be the status of the existing employee union during and after the privatization process? Will the private entities who assume PREPA’s role guarantee employees’ right to organize? Will prior collective bargaining agreements be honored? 10. Please explain in detail how your Administration will ensure that pensioners’ life savings are righteously safeguarded. 11. What is the impact to the Contributions in Lieu of Taxes under a privately-owned model? What is the impact to individual municipalities? 12. Will your privatization legislation contain provisions protecting federal taxpayer funds designated for Hurricane Maria recovery from being diverted to the private entities who assume PREPA’s role? As you can see, Congress has many questions regarding this process and we respectfully request that your Administration provides us with the necessary information. We must make sure that you will have an open and transparent process that informs the people of Puerto Rico about the different options available and that provides safeguards for the environment, collective bargaining, pensions, lower utility rates, and investments for a renewable and resilient energy system. We encourage you to fully and accurately address these concerns publicly so that the people of Puerto Rico can be fully informed about how privatizing one of the Island’s most important public resources would impact them. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Raúl M. Grijalva José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s State of the Union address: “After running a Presidential campaign fueled by some of this country’s ugliest, darkest sentiments, followed by a year in office spent trying to rip healthcare from millions of Americans and enact an enormous tax cut for the extremely wealthy at everyone else’s expense, it will take more than platitudes for Donald Trump to change the course of his presidency. “Most notably, I was disappointed to hear the President return to his unworkable immigration framework, including policies that would slash legal immigration by nearly half, while wasting resources on a costly, meaningless border wall. The President manufactured a crisis for hundreds of thousands of DREAMers in our communities and, now, he’s holding them hostage for his nonsensical wall. Nothing I heard tonight changes that dynamic. “Democrats are willing to compromise on immigration issues and we understand the need to secure our nation. But the President continues promoting policies that would make us less safe, sow fear among hardworking immigrants and threaten to tear families apart. That is simply a nonstarter. “I also heard little new when it comes to the types of economic policies we need to ensure American prosperity. While the President touted job creation numbers from the first year of his Presidency, we need to remember -- jobs created in 2017 were lower than 2016 and lower than job creation in each of the previous six years, during the Obama Presidency. “We should also remember the President and the Republican Congress failed to pass any type of meaningful job creation legislation in the past year. Instead, they shoved through their gargantuan ‘tax scam’, which benefits the wealthy at everyone else’s expense. While 83 percent of tax cuts under that plan would go to the richest 1%, 86 million middle class and working Americans would see a tax increase. “Ironically, while starving the federal budget, the President tonight paid lip service to proposals that – if done properly – could actually make a difference in fortifying our economy for the long term like infrastructure investment. Rather than dedicating adequate federal resources to fix our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges – creating jobs along the way – the President’s plan vastly shortchanges such an effort, putting the burden on strapped states and cities to make up the difference. That’s not leadership and it isn’t the type of public investment we need for the long term. “Democrats have our own vision for a brighter future. We want to raise wages, expand educational opportunities, create millions of good paying jobs and build an economy that works for all Americans. We are willing to work with Congressional Republicans to move the needle on these priorities, but there was little in tonight’s speech to suggest the President is serious about making such bipartisan progress. “Lastly, it is notable what was not in the speech. Despite our fellow citizens continuing to face a humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, the President only passingly mentioned the plight of the Island to say he ‘loves’ those still recovering – on the same day it is announced FEMA is winding down its assistance. That’s simply shameful. “The American people see through rhetoric. They know true bipartisanship when they see it and they recognize meaningful efforts for unity. What they got tonight was neither. They know this President, in word and deed, has long sought to divide our nation, castigate our most vulnerable neighbors and undermine democratic norms and traditions. This speech sprinkled rhetorical niceties among the same old, morally reprehensible policies the President has previously touted.”
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. –Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to help small businesses recover from natural disasters. Following the costliest year on record for damage inflicted by natural disaster, Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 4792, the Small Business Access to Capital after a Natural Disaster Act, would help local small businesses secure the loans and capital they need to rebuild. Specifically, the Act would require the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation to identify and address the unique challenges that small businesses and investors face in securing access to capital after a disaster. “When disaster strikes, local small businesses are especially hard hit,” said Velázquez. “Facing a combination of lost revenue and structural damage, many firms are forced to close their doors, sometimes for good. This bill would take decisive action to provide small business owners with capital they need to rebuild and get local economies moving again after disasters. I’m pleased my colleagues have seen fit to pass this legislation with such strong bipartisan support.” According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), over 40 percent of small businesses never reopen after a disaster. In Puerto Rico, small and midsize businesses make up ninety percent of private companies on the Island. After Hurricane Maria, two-thirds of these firms have been forced to close, at least temporarily. In New York and New Jersey, over five years since Superstorm Sandy, local communities continue to suffer from millions in lost revenue after businesses have been forced to close or delay reopening. Established in 2016, the SEC’s Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation is tasked with identifying issues and proposing changes to benefit small businesses and their investors. Velázquez’s bill requires the Advocate to now also consider the unique challenges that small businesses affected by natural disasters have with securing access to credit and to work to promote their interests. Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business. The Small Business Access to Capital after a Natural Disaster Act passed in the House with bipartisan support. The legislation must now be considered in the U.S. Senate. ###
01.29.2018	Washington, DC—Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the court ruling today that released Ravi Ragbir: “I’m heartened the Judge made the correct and humane decision today in ordering ICE to release Ravi from detainment. I know much still remains ahead in Ravi’s ongoing fight to stay in this country, but this is an important milestone. Before the Court ruled today, I visited Ravi in jail this morning and was profoundly touched by our visit. I’m excited Amy will join me as my guest to tomorrow’s State of the Union and that Ravi will now be able to join her on the trip to D.C. I’ll continue working with this family on options for keeping Ravi in the U.S.” ###
01.27.2018	(New York, New York) —Flanked by community leaders and immigration rights activists, Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, and members of the New York City Congressional delegation called today for a meeting with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the acting Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement to discuss the agency’s recent targeting of immigrant activists for detainment and deportation. Outside of local ICE headquarters, the Members of Congress highlighted four cases of community leaders who were recently detained after speaking out against the Trump administration’s anti-immigrant policies. This includes Ravi Ragbir, a prominent New York City activist, who was detained by ICE in January. “Whether it stems from the culture at ICE or a policy directive, it’s clear the agency has a disturbing pattern of targeting those critical of the Trump Administration,” said Velázquez. “This practice is unconscionable and we intend to meet with these agencies to demand answers. In addition, I am inviting Ravi’s wife, Amy Gottlieb, to attend as my guest at Tuesday’s State of the Union. Her presence will send a powerful message of how this Administration’s policies harm immigrants and their families.” “The Trump administration is continuing its reckless attacks against our immigrant communities and against those who raise their voice to protect our American ideals and values,” said Chairman Crowley. “This predatory behavior must stop.” “Ravi and I are heartened to see the support we are receiving from our community and elected officials,” said Amy Gottlieb, Attorney and Associate Regional Director of The American Friends Service Committee, and the wife of Ravi Ragbir. “We agree that he and others are targeted for expressing their objections to the harsh enforcement tactics of ICE but we believe we can change the course of these tactics toward a fair and humane immigration policy by continuing to raise awareness and organizing for change. It is my deepest hope that Ravi be released from detention and stay in the US so we can do this together.” “I am alarmed, outraged, and quite frankly, frightened by reports that the Trump Administration has detained or deported Immigrant Advocacy leaders Ravi Ragbir, Jean Montrevil, Eliseo Jurado, and Maru Mora-Vilalpando,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). “Time and again we were assured by this administration that deportation efforts would be aimed at violent, convicted criminals who posed imminent dangers to their neighbors. But these immigrant leaders aren’t dangers to their communities, quite the opposite. They devote their time to ensuring that their fellow immigrants have every opportunity to make better lives for themselves, here, in the country they love and call home. Targeting these individuals is harmful and dishonest. We are determined to hold this administration accountable for the un-American way they are treating those who come to this country. We deserve an explanation for this reckless roundup.” "Mr. Ragbir is a family man with ties to the community who has consistently fought for the well-being of all immigrants. He has also contributed immensely to the local labor community and worked hard to protect his family. What happened to him is a disgrace and I stand in solidarity with him today," said Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY). In a letter released at today’s event, the Members of Congress requested a meeting with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the head of ICE. The letter highlights four individual cases of recent detentions and deportations: • Ravi Ragbir, a green card holder for 12 years and Executive Director of the immigration reform group New Sanctuary Coalition. Ragbir is a constituent of Rep. Velázquez and is being detained by ICE. Velázquez has previously advocated for his release. • Jean Montrevil, a father of four U.S. citizens who was deported to Haiti on January 16th. Montrevil co-founded the New Sanctuary Coalition with Ravi. • Eliseo Jurado, the husband of the immigrant rights activist Ingrid Encalada Latorre, was detained by ICE on January 11th while on his way to purchase groceries for his family. • Maru Mora-Villalpando, who leads the Northwest Detention Center Resistance (NWDCR), a Tacoma immigrant advocacy organization. Mora-Villalpando has been put in deportation proceedings by ICE. The letter was signed by: Nydia M. Velázquez; Joe Crowley; Pramila Jayapal; José Serrano; Eliot Engel; Bonnie Watson Coleman; Adriano Espaillat; James P. McGovern; Zoe Lofgren; Juan Vargas; Adam Smith; Jerrold Nadler; Luis V. Gutiérrez; Yvette D. Clarke; Eleanor Holmes Norton; Darren Soto; Jan Schakowsky; Jimmy Gomez; Thomas R. Suozzi; Salud O. Carbajal; Gregory W. Meeks ; Judy Chu; Linda Sánchez; Rick Larsen; Jared Polis; Frank Pallone, Jr.; Carolyn B. Maloney; Grace Meng; Rep. Mark DeSaulnier; Hakeem Jeffries; and Nanette Diaz Barragán. The letter is online here.
01.23.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in response to news that Lukasz Niec, a doctor from Michigan is being detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “The detention of Lukasz Niec is yet another heartbreaking instance of the Trump Administration’s assault on our immigrant families. A father, family man and physician, Lukasz has been a lawful permanent resident for nearly thirty years. Coming to this country at the age of five from Poland, Lukasz was fulfilling the American dream—attending medical school, becoming a doctor and raising a family in Michigan. Unfortunately, his detention by ICE is not an isolated incident and similar cases across the country continue to sow profound fear in our immigrant communities. ICE should release Lukasz immediately.” # # #
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the Continuing Resolution that the Senate approved today and was being considered in the House: “This is the fourth time that Congressional Republicans have temporarily extended the budget in this Fiscal Year. Lurching chaotically from crisis to crisis is no way to govern. “Instead, House Republicans should work in a bipartisan manner with Democrats on a bill funding the government for the longer term and that meets our national priorities. Not only does this three-week, stopgap bill fail to provide adequate funding for pressing issues like opioid addiction and community health centers, but it remains silent on the hundreds of thousands of young DREAMers. This bill is inadequate and I am voting no.” ###
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the Republican Continuing Resolution considered this evening on the House floor: “Rather than governing in a responsible fashion, Republican Congressional Leadership is lurching from crisis to crisis, repeatedly passing ‘continuing resolutions’ rather than long-term legislation that meets the American people’s priorities. “This continuing resolution again fails to meet that test. The measure does nothing to provide relief for the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers who, because of this Administration’s hateful policies, are in jeopardy of deportation. The bill fails to provide adequate funding for community health centers. It also fails to provide requested funds allowing the Small Business Administration to continue making disaster loans in Puerto Rico. “This legislation is irresponsible and I will be voting against it. I urge the Republican Leadership to come back to the negotiating table and work with Democrats on bipartisan legislation to keep the government’s doors open. That said, to be clear, should they refuse, we must remember that Republicans have majorities in the House and the Senate and control the White House. They own any government shutdown, should they fail to govern.” # # #
01.18.2018	Bill to Help Small Firms Recover Passes Committee Washington, D.C. –After 2017 marked the costliest year on record for climate and weather-related disasters, today, the House Committee on Financial Services passed a bill authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to help small businesses rebound from natural disasters. Velázquez’s bill, HR 4792, the Small Business Access to Capital after a Natural Disaster Act, would require the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation to identify and address the unique challenges that small businesses and investors face in securing access to capital after a disaster. “When natural disaster strikes, many once-thriving Main Streets turn into ghost towns and small business owners face the harsh reality of soaring bills and lost revenue,” said Velázquez. “In 2017, we saw the devastating impact of unprecedented damages to communities across the Mainland and especially in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. I encourage Congress to pass my bill helping small businesses secure the loans and necessary capital they need to get back up and running after disaster strikes.” Small firms are a cornerstone of local economies, however, according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), over 40 percent of small businesses never reopen after a disaster. Furthermore, small and midsize businesses make up ninety percent of private companies in Puerto Rico, and after Hurricane Maria, two-thirds of these firms have been forced to close, at least temporarily. In New York and New Jersey, over five years since Superstorm Sandy, local communities continue to suffer from millions in lost revenue after businesses have been forced to close or delay reopening. In Toms River, New Jersey, the local Chamber of Commerce estimates that ongoing small business recovery costs $600 million per year in lost rateables even at this point. Established in 2016, the SEC’s Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation is tasked with identifying issues and proposing changes to benefit small businesses and their investors. Currently, the Advocate is required by law to identify issues related to access to capital for small businesses, including the unique challenges faced by women and minority-owned small firms. Velázquez’s bill requires the Advocate to now also consider the unique challenges that small businesses affected by natural disasters have with securing access to credit and to work to promote their interests. “Unless we act swiftly to help small firms reopen their doors, we will only see more empty streets and abandoned communities,” said Velázquez. “In Puerto Rico, we have already seen an exodus to the Mainland after Hurricane Maria. Addressing issues of capital for a mom-and-pop shop, or local manufacturer is a much needed step towards rebuilding entire communities.” Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business. The Small Business Access to Capital after a Natural Disaster Act passed in the Financial Services Committee with bipartisan support by a vote of 57 -0. The Act must now be considered on the House floor for a vote. ###
01.16.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement to honor the life of Adela Ferguson, the beloved owner of Casa Adela on Manhattan’s Lower East Side. “To pay a visit to Casa Adela was like stepping into the warmth of a Puerto Rican neighbor’s home. Adela herself welcomed all New Yorkers to delicious Puerto Rican food surrounded by the Island’s spirit of hospitality and generosity. Outside the restaurant’s walls, Adela was a center of Latino life on the Lower East Side and a tireless community advocate. “A ‘Wise Latina,’ Adela was an entrepreneur who had been serving authentic Puerto Rican food to locals and tourists alike for over four decades. My thoughts and prayers are with her children, grandchildren and loved ones. While I am deeply saddened to hear of her passing, I take a small measure of comfort knowing that I join so many others in grief.” ###
01.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released “2018: Restarting Puerto Rico,” an outline of principles designed to spur economic growth and recovery in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. In the document, Velázquez articulates five key principles to a long-term recovery plan for the Island: 1) Addressing Healthcare Inequities including permanently solving Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall 2) Rebuilding an Energy Grid Resistant to Future Storms 3) Investing in Resilient Homes and Public Buildings 4) Adopting Fiscal Transparency and Accountability 5) Enabling Tools for Economic Development “During the past three months, thoughts of my friends and relatives enduring more than 100 days without electricity still keep me up at night,” wrote Velázquez. “Amidst all recovery efforts, I have yet to see an articulate, long-term recovery plan for the Island. The principles being outlined today would provide a framework to begin the long process of finally making Puerto Rico whole again.” The full document is available here and a one page summary is online here. ###
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in remembrance of Maria Thomson, a longtime community leader in Woodhaven, Queens. “It is with great sadness that I received the heartbreaking news of the passing of a beloved leader and community anchor. Described by neighbors as the ‘unofficial mayor’ of Woodhaven, Maria touched countless lives. “Over the last four decades, Maria has given her heart and soul to our community. Whether by serving as a member of Community Board 9 or later, through her leadership of the Greater Woodhaven Development Corp., Maria worked to preserve our parks, keep mom-and-pop shops open and beautify our streets. “Neighbors from all walks of life can attest to Maria’s commitment to Woodhaven’s residents. I extend my deepest condolences to Maria’s family, including her beloved husband Robert and all those whose lives she worked to improve.” ###
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding news that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has detained Ravi Ragbir: “Ravi Ragbir has been a pillar in the immigrant community and a tireless champion for immigrant rights. His detention is unnecessary and inappropriate. Not only is this father, family man and community activist being needlessly detained, but these actions by ICE are creating profound fear and distrust among immigrants throughout our City. ICE needs to release Mr. Ragbir immediately and I will be personally making this case to ICE’s director in coming days.” # # #
01.10.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding ongoing negotiations in the Senate related to the disaster supplemental bill and funding for Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall: “We need to be clear: anything less than a permanent fix to Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall is inadequate. The fact is, should Congress fail to fix the Island’s healthcare system, we can expect the exodus from Puerto Rico to the mainland to accelerate, meaning the federal government will end up paying for healthcare costs of Puerto Ricans, but at a higher cost. “If Republicans can toy with the idea of spending billions of dollars on a boondoggle like Donald Trump’s border wall, certainly responsible Members of Congress can find the will and the funding to ensure 3.4 million American citizens in Puerto Rico have access to quality healthcare. We’ve waited long enough. Now is the time to solve this problem.” # # #
01.10.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after a federal judge temporarily halted President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “This ruling, while an important check on President Trump’s executive actions, is only a brief reprieve for the thousands of young Dreamers who face an uncertain future. Establishing a permanent solution by codifying DACA into law remains a pressing priority and this injunction does not alleviate that urgency. “For many of these young people, America is the only country they know as home. We have a moral imperative to ensure they are protected from this Administration’s cold hearted, anti-immigrant policies. If a clean Dream Act were put on the floor, it would pass with bipartisan support and I challenge the House Republican Leadership to take that step immediately.” ###
01.09.2018	Join Senate Small Business Committee Leaders to Promote Access to Capital Washington, D.C. – Today, House Committee on Small Business Ranking Member Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) and Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH), Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee Chairman Jim Risch (R-ID) and Ranking Member Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) joined together to introduce the Small Business 7(a) Lending Oversight and Reform Act of 2018. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation will increase the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) oversight authority over the 7(a) Loan Program. Ranking Member Velázquez said, “The House Small Business Committee has a long tradition of working across the aisle to promote opportunity and job growth for America’s small businesses and, central to that effort, is ensuring entrepreneurs can access adequate capital to grow their operations. To that end, I’m proud to cosponsor the Small Business 7(a) Lending Oversight Reform Act, a package of bipartisan, commonsense reforms to increase the efficiency and reach of the program. Since its inception, the 7(a) initiative has provided new and existing ventures with financing to grow and create jobs in local communities. Under this legislation, SBA will have more tools to meet small businesses’ needs. I’m particularly pleased the bill includes provisions from my legislation allowing SBA to raise its 7(a) lending cap, so there’s no interruption in the flow of loans to small firms. This is a good bill and I look forward to working with Chairmen Chabot and Risch and Ranking Member Shaheen in seeing it enacted.” “Many small business owners are ready to turn their dream into a reality but face obstacles to finance it. One of the many ways they are able to get the capital they need is the 7(a) Loan Program. This legislation will allow SBA to keep a close watch on the program to ensure it is running efficiently and effectively while also protecting taxpayer dollars,” said Chairman Chabot. “The 7(a) loan program has leveraged billions of dollars to help America’s small businesses thrive,” said Senator Risch. “By bolstering the SBA’s oversight office and providing the Administrator with flexibility to increase the program’s maximum lending authority in the event it would be reached, this bill will ensure the strength of the program into the future, guaranteeing that entrepreneurs will have access to the critical capital they need to build and grow their businesses. The bipartisan and bicameral support for this effort underscores just how important the 7(a) program, and the capital it provides, is to our nation’s small business owners. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this legislation.” Ranking Member Shaheen said, “SBA’s 7(a) program provides an essential source of capital to help New Hampshire small businesses that don’t qualify for a traditional bank loan – at no cost to taxpayers. This bipartisan bill ensures that small businesses will not be hurt by a sudden shutdown of the program and left without an affordable source of capital to meet payroll, buy inventory, purchase equipment and create jobs in their community. It also takes important steps to improve oversight of the program to prevent fraud and increase efficiency. I look forward to working with my colleagues and SBA to make sure this program works for New Hampshire small businesses.” The 7(a) loan program is a Small Business Administration program that helps entrepreneurs and small businesses access credit to start and grow their businesses. The Small Business 7(a) Lending Oversight and Reform Act of 2018 preserves this important loan program by: • Strengthening SBA’s Office of Credit Risk Management by outlining in statute the responsibilities of the office and the requirements of its director; • Enhancing SBA’s lender oversight review process, including increasing the office’s enforcement options; • Requiring SBA to detail its oversight budget and perform a full risk analysis of the program on an annual basis; and • Strengthening SBA’s Credit Elsewhere Test by clarifying the factors that must be considered. The Small Business Committees have held multiple hearings on the matter and several meetings to ensure the program continues to run effectively and with proper oversight. ###
01.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding news that the Department of Homeland Security will terminate Temporary Protected Status for El Salvador: “This decision is another cold hearted, disgraceful step by the Trump Administration targeting hardworking immigrant families who have been here for decades, building lives, planting roots and contributing to local communities and economies. “It is becoming increasingly clear that the Administration’s immoral policies will continue putting vulnerable immigrants at risk, requiring Congress to act on TPS. Notably, DHS’ announcement calls for Congressional action. In that regard, I will be working with my colleagues and Congressional Leadership in coming weeks to push my bill, the American Promise Act, which would provide a path to naturalization for TPS recipients. Where President Trump and the Administration are failing to show moral leadership, Congress must step forward.” Velázquez is the author of the American Promise Act, legislation to provide TPS recipients with a path to naturalization. The bill has been officially endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and has 58 cosponsors. # # #
12.21.2017	Calls for Congressional Hearing into Alleged Malpractice of UBS in Puerto Rico Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote to the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), to request a congressional hearing into the marketing and sales practices of investment companies operating in Puerto Rico. According to disturbing new reporting by CNBC, executives at UBS allegedly hid and disguised the true risk of Puerto Rican government bonds that were packaged into mutual funds and sold to residents of the Island. Introduced earlier this year, Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 1366, the US Territories Investors Protection Act of 2017 would close a dangerous loophole in current securities law and expand financial protections to residents of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Act has passed the U.S. House of Representatives and is awaiting further action in Congress. “The reported claims of deception, mismanagement, and coercion highlighted in the CNBC article, if true, are egregious, unethical, and potentially illegal,” wrote Velázquez. “I am urging the Committee to commence with oversight hearings into this matter. The integrity and future of Puerto Rico’s investment sector depends on it.” The text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. December 21, 2017 Jeb Hensarling Chairman, House Financial Services Committee United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Hensarling: Earlier this year, the House Financial Services Committee came together to pass bipartisan legislation I authored, HR 1366, the US Territories Investors Protection Act of 2017. If enacted, this legislation would provide fundamental protections for the mutual fund investors living in Puerto Rico and the other US territories. Again, I want to thank you for your leadership on this issue and for helping to ensure the legislation’s passage through the U.S. House of Representatives. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, I urge you to continue our Committee’s important work of protecting Puerto Rican investors and ask that you convene a hearing into the marketing and sales practices of investment companies operating in Puerto Rico. Such oversight is critically necessary. Earlier this week, CNBC published a highly disturbing report entitled: Broken bonds: The Role Wall Street Played in Wiping out Puerto Ricans’ Savings[1], which alleges that UBS executives both in Puerto Rico and here on the mainland purposely withheld and disguised the true risk of Puerto Rican government bonds that UBS packaged into mutual funds and sold to residents on the island. According to CNBC’s reporting, top executives at UBS also sought to withhold stress-test results from its own brokers and did not translate research reports and other critical fund documents into Spanish. Moreover, CNBC’s report alleges that even though some of UBS’ most important brokers expressed multiple concerns about the bond funds from the initial stages, UBS management encouraged Puerto Rican brokers to sell the funds to unsuspecting investors anyway. The reported claims of deception, mismanagement, and coercion highlighted in the CNBC article, if true, are egregious, unethical, and potentially illegal. The alleged claims are indeed so disturbing that the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation into the matter, according to the report. It is my hope that our Committee can investigate the matter as well. Thousands of hardworking Puerto Ricans lost their life-savings after being told their money would be safe. All Americans deserve honesty, integrity, and trust when it comes to investing in our capital markets—they are the fundamental truths that our free-enterprise system is based upon. A culture of deception and deceit erodes that trust and could lead investors to lose faith in our institutions and markets. Therefore, as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, with jurisdiction and oversight of our nation’s capital markets, I urge you to commence with oversight hearings into this matter with due haste. The integrity and future of Puerto Rico’s investment sector depends on it. I look forward to working with you in a bipartisan and constructive manner on this issue. Sincerely Yours, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Cc: Representative Maxine Waters, Ranking Member, House Financial Services Committee ###
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement announcing that they would vote no on the latest round of additional funding for hurricane recovery in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida and Texas: “As we said previously when this measure was unveiled, the funding in this bill is woefully insufficient and it has not improved. The Governor of Puerto Rico previously requested $94 billion for recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and this measure provides only $81 billion to be split between Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. That’s not enough and, if history is any guide, we can expect that the bulk of that money will not reach Puerto Rico, but the other disaster-stricken areas. “There are other significant shortcomings in this legislation. It fails to provide needed cost sharing waivers for in numerous areas, including FEMA funding and Economic Development Administration funding. Without such provisions, we are asking an Island that was already facing fiscal insolvency before the Hurricane to pay for recovery efforts it cannot afford. The legislation does nothing to address the Medicaid cliff. “Hurricane Maria visited on Puerto Rico a once-in-a-generation humanitarian crisis. Making the Island whole will take years, not months, and requires a long term commitment by the federal government. This bill fails that test, fails Puerto Rico, and we cannot support it. We will continue pushing for additional aid and a bill that allocates resources commensurate to the severity of the situation in Puerto Rico. Anything less is unacceptable.” ###
12.20.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after photos surfaced of a politically motivated sticker in a security booth at the Lower East Side’s Park Row. “This sticker is inappropriate, and it should not have been placed in the booth. I am glad the Marshal is investigating this matter, and it is crucial they review security protocols and take appropriate action. At a time of heightened concern in our communities, we must be proactive when it comes to preventing hate crimes. “For years, security concerns have hampered the reopening of Park Row. Now that we have successfully opened a section of the area to pedestrian and bicycle traffic, it is crucial that lawmakers across the city, state and federal levels work together to strengthen security protocols.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after reports of heating and hot water outages at the Lower East Side Housing Development, LaGuardia Houses. “As temperatures drop, no tenant should be forced to spend these cold winter months without basic heating services. After distressing reports of outages, my office has been in contact with residents of LaGuardia Houses, and I will continue to pressure NYCHA to immediately restore heating.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the recently released disaster supplemental bill: “While I am pleased that House Republicans included more funding than was requested by the Administration, this bill is still insufficient to address the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico. The bill does not include cost sharing for recovery efforts in Puerto Rico. It provides nothing to address Puerto Rico’s Medicaid crisis. While the Continuing Resolution provides $1 billion for that purpose, given the size of the shortfall, those funds are a drop in the bucket. “The Governor of Puerto Rico has requested $94 billion for Maria recovery and rebuilding. Instead, House Republicans have presented a measure that would provide $81 billion – an already insufficient amount to be split between Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Florida, Texas and areas impacted by wildfires. Simply put, more resources are needed. Congress has a long tradition of coming together in a bipartisan fashion after disasters. In that vein, I’ll continue pressing my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to allocate more resources to assist our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico. If Congress does not do so, it would constitute an abject moral failure. “Finally, let me note that while Republicans incorporated some tax provisions into this package, they did not extend the earned income tax credit to the island, nor expand the child tax credit so that it is consistent with what is provided to other states. I will continue pushing for this type of assistance in the future.” ###
12.19.2017	Underscores Devastation Bill will inflict on Hardworking Americans, Puerto Rico Washington, DC –This morning, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor in opposition to HR 1, the GOP Tax Scam. Following are her remarks as prepared for delivery. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this “Tax Scam” bill. Not only will it harm working families across the nation, but it will visit another Hurricane on Puerto Rico – an economic hurricane! Today, Puerto Rico is in the grip of a humanitarian crisis. More than 235,000 of its people have already fled the Island for the Mainland. “After Maria, many of my colleagues – from Speaker Ryan to Leader McCarthy - went to Puerto Rico and promised they would assist the Island and help them recover. Instead, they are finding a way to further drive Puerto Rico’s economy into the ground! “Even though it is part of the United States, this bill treats Puerto Rico as a foreign jurisdiction, levying new taxes on companies operating there – creating incentives for them to leave the Island and take jobs when they go. That is how you help Puerto Rico? “Let’s be clear – Puerto Ricans are American citizens. They fight in our wars, many of them laying down their lives for our freedoms. Yet, this bill continues treating Puerto Rico differently than the rest of the United States. “For decades, decisions made right here – in this body – hollowed out, weakened and undermined Puerto Rico’s economy. This tax bill continues that awful tradition – undercutting Puerto Rico’s economy once more. All told, these tax provisions will cost Puerto Rico more than 200,000 jobs –at exactly the time when the Island needs all the help it can get. “And, while this Tax Scam would hurt Puerto Rico – it also does nothing to help. While they had talked of it, there’s nothing to expand the Child Tax Credit for Puerto Rico. They eliminated the meager extensions of the Section 199 and rum cover over provisions contained in the House version. “The Speaker of the House and the Republican Leader went to Puerto Rico. They looked the people of Puerto Rico in the eye – and made promises to help them. “What we are seeing is that their tax bill would serve simply to crush Puerto Rico’s economy. This bill is morally bankrupt. It harms American citizens everywhere – and it kicks Puerto Rico when it is down. It must be rejected.” Video of her speech is online here. ###
12.18.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on news that the government of Puerto Rico will review and recount the number of people who died as a result of Hurricane Maria. Velázquez previously wrote to the Department of Homeland Security requesting an audit of the official death count and, last week, requested a Government Accountability Office (GAO) analysis. Velázquez’s statement is as follows: “This reevaluation of the death count in Puerto Rico is a welcome, necessary and overdue step. As I have said previously, the official death count on the Island seems unrealistically low. The American people and their elected officials need the full picture of the damage wrought by Maria to ensure the federal government responds adequately in assisting our fellow citizens living on the Island. “While I am pleased the Governor is taking this step, I still believe an independent review is necessary given events to date. To that end, I will continue asking GAO to examine this issue.” ###
12.14.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Republican Continuing Resolution bill to fund the government: “The legislation unveiled by the Republican Leadership is wholly inadequate for Puerto Rico. While the Island continues struggling to recover from a once-in-a-generation humanitarian crisis, this bill fails to provide the assistance that our fellow citizens so desperately need. Puerto Rico cannot afford to continue waiting for assistance. The Island needs help now and the omission of this aid in this package is unconscionable. “Moreover, the bill provides only $1 billion for Puerto Rico’s badly strained Medicaid program. Not only is this amount unacceptably insufficient, but, adding insult to injury, the funds come with conditions not placed on other localities. In previous disasters, the federal government picked up 100 percent of Medicaid costs related to disaster survivors. Yet, this is not being extended to Puerto Rico and this bill does nothing to address this problem. “In short, this bill abandons the people of Puerto Rico in their time of need. It should be rejected.” ###
12.13.2017	Lawmakers Seek Audit of Maria-Linked Fatalities Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, wrote the Government Accountability Office (GAO) demanding a review of the official death count in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. While the latest official death toll stands at 64, recent media reports have suggested the actual loss of life may be much higher, estimating 1,052 deaths can be attributed to Maria. “Donald Trump came to Puerto Rico and shamefully bragged that the death toll was something to be proud of,” said Velázquez. “In the meantime, every credible statistical analysis suggests that the actual loss of life is staggeringly higher than the official numbers. We need an impartial analysis of how many people have died and are dying from Maria in Puerto Rico so the public fully grasps the magnitude of this humanitarian crisis and our government responds appropriately.” “It is clear from numerous reports that the official death toll in Puerto Rico may not be credible and is misleading the American people about the severity of Hurricane Maria and the efficacy of the federal response in its aftermath,” said Thompson. “The federal government has a clear role to play and a full review of the methodology Puerto Rico is using to determine the death toll must take place. As Congress determines additional assistance for Puerto Rico in the coming weeks, it is critical we have a clear and accurate picture of what happened, including how many fellow Americans’ lives we lost.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. December 13, 2017 Mr. Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street N.W. Washington D.C. 20548 Dear Comptroller General: As you may be aware, there have been repeated media reports suggesting that the official count of deaths in Puerto Rico stemming from Hurricane Maria has been artificially suppressed. In early October, Vox.com surveyed death reports from other media outlets, suggesting that the death count was likely significantly higher than the then-recorded official count of 45 deaths and likely underrepresented the number of fatalities resulting from the hurricane.[1] In early October, we wrote to the Department of Homeland Security asking for an audit examining how Puerto Rico’s fatalities are being compiled and whether that process is sufficient to accurately assess human loss of life on the Island. On December 6, we received a response from Administrator Brock Long stating that “Neither the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) nor the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has a role in cause and manner of death determination.” Nonetheless, concerns remain that the death toll from Maria is much higher than is being officially acknowledged. This past Friday, The New York Times published an analysis that strongly suggests the official death count in Puerto Rico likely vastly understates the number of fatalities that can be credibly linked to Maria. While the official death toll as of Friday stood at 64, the Times’ analysis found that since the hurricane made landfall on September 20th, 1,052 more people died than compared to the average number of deaths from the same period over the previous two years.[2] The Center for Investigative Journalism performed a similar breakdown and determined that in the months of September and October (following Maria), 985 more people died compared to the same period in 2016.[3] These analyses strongly suggest that the existing official death count strains credibility and may be misleading Americans about the severity of Maria’s human toll. In coming weeks, as Congress considers additional aid for hurricane-impacted areas, including Puerto Rico, the official death count will likely shape the scope and direction of federal assistance. Already, in October, we heard President Trump himself minimize the severity of the crisis by citing the official death count.[4] It is therefore critical that the American people and their elected officials have an accurate accounting of the loss of life incurred from Maria. To that end, we ask the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to undertake a review of the official death count in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, to include: 1. An audit of Puerto Rico’s death toll methodology; 2. An explanation of whether GAO believes with any confidence that the official death count offered by the Puerto Rican government reflects the death toll on the Island from Maria; 3. An evaluation of why this methodology is or is not sufficient in accurately examining deaths from natural disasters; 4. An explanation of how Puerto Rico’s procedures in this area differ from other states or localities; 5. A summary of the most widely used methods for determining death counts by all states and localities in the U.S.; and 6. Recommendations for improving this process in Puerto Rico and providing uniformity for death counts during future disasters in other states and localities. The official death count will have significant public policy implications in terms of Congress’ political will to appropriate additional assistance and the pace and efficacy of the Administration’s ongoing recovery efforts. To that end, we ask GAO to swiftly dedicate resources to examining this problem and respond to our inquiry as quickly as possible. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Bennie G. Thompson Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the beginning of Hanukkah: “This evening, neighbors, families and loved ones will gather in New York and throughout all corners of the world as Hanukkah begins. During this festival of lights, I wish nothing but smiles, joy and peace.” ###
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke at a press conference alongside Puerto Rican teachers and health care professionals to call on Congress to pass additional federal recovery assistance for the Island. She was also joined by representatives from the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), Service Employees International Union (SEIU) and SEIU 32BJ. Additionally, Velázquez highlighted how the Republican “tax scam” will further decimate Puerto Rico’s fragile economy. Below are her remarks as prepared for delivery. A video of the entire event is online here: https://www.facebook.com/HouseDemocrats/videos/10155817929013548/ “Thank you all for being here. More than 10 weeks after Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, the Island remains in a state of devastation. One-third of the Island remains without power. I was in my hometown of Yabucoa this weekend – where Maria made landfall. Today, the town looks like the storm hit yesterday – not two months ago. People are still standing in line for food and water. “The federal government has failed 3.5 million American citizens with its response. For decades, Puerto Rico has been a failed economic laboratory experiment – and the policies implemented here, in this body, have brought the Island to its knees. “Now, with the potential passage of the Republican “Tax Scam” bill, Puerto Rico faces an economic hurricane – caused right here in the halls of Congress. Under U.S. tax law, American companies located in Puerto Rico have traditionally been considered controlled foreign corporations. This continues to be the case under the Republican tax scam bill. “But, under this bill, American subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico will now face a 20% tax when they move their goods off the island. If this becomes law, you can expect to see more than 200,000 manufacturing jobs disappear from the Island. And, the government of Puerto Rico could lose one-third of its revenue. Just like so many times before, the fault lies right here in Congress. We must to look in the mirror – it is us – Congress - not the people of Puerto Rico. “We have seen this movie before. The treatment of the Island under Medicaid, Medicare, and various tax policies such as Section 936. And now the tax scam. It is Congress that created the dire economic situation the island finds itself in. Since Maria, more than 215,000 Puerto Ricans have left for the Mainland – for Florida and New York. Imagine how that exodus will accelerate if Puerto Rico’s manufacturing base is further damaged. “In addition to its many other problems, under the Republican tax scam bill Puerto Rico is treated like a foreign country. Once again, Puerto Rico will suffer because policies enacted in this body – the U.S. Congress! And, eventually, this Tax Scam will mean gutting services that all Americans need like Medicare and Medicaid – services Puerto Rico especially needs following Maria. “Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall was a looming threat before the Hurricane. After Maria, this issue is even more pressing. Congress must also raise the federal Medicaid matching rate for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to 100 percent. This was done for some states after Katrina -- and that should happen here, too. “In the long term, this tax scam will mean less investment in education for young people. Close to 60% of the children in Puerto Rico live in poverty. The Island’s schools were struggling before Maria. Now, many have opened without electric power. Some have mold, putting children at risk for respiratory problems. Enrollment is down. You’re going to hear Puerto Rican educators today who can talk about these challenges. “You know, at this time of year, as the holidays approach, most Americans are inspired to care for one another, to give to charities and be more generous to the less fortunate. Yet, rather than caring for those suffering in Puerto Rico, Congressional Republicans are turning their back on our fellow citizens. “Rather than provide meaningful relief, they want to push through a tax cut for the biggest corporations and the most wealthy. And they are doing it on the backs of the most vulnerable – in this case, American citizens in Puerto Rico. That’s immoral. It is heartless. It is wrong. And we’re going to call them out on it – and we’re going to keep fighting until Puerto Rico is made whole.” ###
12.06.2017	17 CHC Members Argue Republican Tax Bill Will Further Devastate Puerto Rico’s Economy Washington, DC – In the midst of Congress’ ongoing tax negotiations, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) sent a letter to Republican leadership underscoring the harm that the current tax bill will impose on Puerto Rico’s already fragile and recovering economy. By taxing the Island as a foreign jurisdiction, the bill will raise production costs which will cost manufacturing jobs and the economy. Signed by fifteen additional members of the CHC, the letter urges immediate action to amend the tax bill to prioritize Puerto Rico’s recovery. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. December 5, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Mitch McConnell Speaker Majority Leader United States House of Representatives United States Senate H-232, U.S. Capitol 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell: Puerto Rico is too often an afterthought in the Congressional legislative process and this tax reform process proves it. H.R. 1 and S. 1 are disappointments to the 3.4 million citizens living in Puerto Rico. The bills have proven that Congress is derelict in its duty to provide for all Americans. Both bills ignore the fiscal and humanitarian needs of the Island. The Island is still recovering from the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria with residents still cleaning up, employees out of work, and businesses closed. Tax reform should have proven an opportunity for bipartisan work to address their needs. Yet, we have failed them. Congress has instead chosen to provide tax cuts to corporations in lieu of targeted assistance to Puerto Rico. As drafted, H.R. 1 only temporarily helps the Island through the Section 199 domestic manufacturing and rum cover over provisions and S. 1 completely ignores the importance of them by leaving out any language to extend them. To better meet the needs of the Island, it is critical that you retroactively make permanent these two code sections. The rum cover would provide budgetary support to the territorial governments, while the Section 199 credit would be another step toward job creation and economic growth in the territories, helping the island’s immediate recovery and long-term fiscal health. Manufacturing is the lifeblood in Puerto Rico as it comprises over half the GDP of the Island and one-third of the Puerto Rico’s revenues. In fact, the medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturing employ hundreds of thousands of jobs and contribute approximately 30 percent of Puerto Rico’s GDP. Furthermore, it ranks fifth in the world in pharmaceutical production and third in biotechnology. Puerto Rico has been treated as a foreign jurisdiction by federal tax law but is still subject to U.S. laws, making production and operating costs higher in Puerto Rico. Acknowledging this unique dynamic, Congress has ensured the competitiveness of the Island through the tax code – particularly as a manufacturing hub. Unfortunately, these bills ignore that treatment and remove any hope Puerto Rico had to recover from its fiscal calamity. Section 4303 of the House bill penalizes the companies investing in Puerto Rico and its residents. By imposing a 20% excise tax on products manufactured in Puerto Rico, the bill leaves manufacturers harmed and Puerto Rico’s treasury at risk of massive revenue loss. More importantly, it could result in a loss of 200,000 jobs on the Island. In addition, Section 14401 in the Senate bill imposes a 12.5% tax on income derived from intellectual property held in foreign jurisdictions. This provision puts Puerto Rico at a disadvantage simply based on its treatment by Congress as a foreign jurisdiction in the tax code, even though it is part of the United States. The bills remove any existing incentives for multinational companies to invest in Puerto Rico; and therefore disregarding a central tenant of tax reform–encouraging domestic investment and employment. The tax proposals impose excessive tax liabilities on companies that have proven their dedication to investing in their local operations and employees. Therefore, we recommend a special exemption be created to recognize the special situation Puerto Rico is in as a United States territory as it relates to international tax reform. Such changes should account for the unique tax structures in the U.S. territories. Congress can and must do more to help our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico. These changes, which should be made in conference, represent positive steps forward to ensure all Americans are treated more equitably under the tax code. As you continue your work, we urge you to include these proposals and protect the interests of citizens who need our help. We appreciate your immediate attention to this matter and look forward to working with you in a bipartisan way to bring a tax reform that contemplates the needs of Puerto Rico. Sincerely, __________________________ __________________________ Nydia M. Velázquez Michelle Lujan Grisham Member of Congress CHC Chair __________________________ __________________________ Lucille Roybal-Allard Norma J. Torres Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Luis V. Gutiérrez Joaquin Castro Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Darren Soto Albio Sires Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Grace F. Napolitano Juan Vargas Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Adriano Espaillat Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Tony Cárdenas Raúl Grijalva Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Jimmy Gomez Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
12.04.2017	42 Members of Congress Say Altering Oversight Law Would Create Confusion, Slow Hurricane Recovery Washington, DC – With Congress expected to consider additional funding for Puerto Rico’s disaster recovery in coming weeks, Members of Congress are signaling opposition to altering the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA). In a letter sent today to Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and the Chairs of the Natural Resources and Appropriations Committee, 42 Members of Congress argued that changing the authorities of the Island’s Oversight Board could spur confusion and uncertainty, impeding hurricane recovery. “PROMESA was the product of painstaking, bipartisan negotiations and reopening the Act now would not benefit the Island, but sow confusion and potentially harm Puerto Rico’s physical and economic recoveries,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who spearheaded the letter. “The Oversight Board was established for the very specific purpose of addressing Puerto Rico’s debt and economic issues and changings its powers now would not benefit the Island’s recovery from Maria. Instead, the federal government must work with Puerto Rico’s elected officials to provide immediate hurricane relief and tools for longer term rebuilding.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. December 1, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker H-232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Rob Bishop Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources 123 Cannon Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman, Committee on Appropriations 2306 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Speaker Ryan, Chairman Bishop and Chairman Frelinghuysen: In the coming weeks, Congress will consider supplemental appropriations legislation for areas affected by recent hurricanes, including Puerto Rico. Nearly two months after Hurricane Maria made landfall, the Island is still struggling to regain any sense of normalcy. While some progress has been made, the lack of a stable energy grid and the destruction of housing and key infrastructure will require years to rebuild. As with Texas post-Harvey and Florida post-Irma, Puerto Rico will require substantial federal investment. Unfortunately, recent congressional hearings concerning the Island have centered on the mistrust of Puerto Rico’s government and the potential need to provide the Oversight Board established under Title I of PROMESA (48 U.S.C. §2121) with additional authorities. We agree that taxpayers must have confidence in the rebuilding of Puerto Rico, which requires transparency and accountability; however, a move by Congress to reopen PROMESA and broadly expand the Board’s powers would be a mistake. The Board’s statutory mission is to oversee the Island’s finances and provide a pathway for debt restructuring (which is well underway), not to operate a parallel government that could stymie and complicate recovery efforts. Given that PROMESA has only been law for 17 months, we should instead be allowing the Board to use the tools it has been provided rather than tinker with its authorities. Reopening PROMESA and broadly expanding its powers will only further confusion as to the role of Puerto Rico’s elected government vis-à-vis the Board. At a time when the Island needs all resources focused on recovery efforts, wholesale changes to PROMESA and the Board are the last things Puerto Rico needs to be dealing with right now. For this reason, we urge you to not amend PROMESA. While this legislation was far from perfect when it was signed into law, it was the product of many tough months of bipartisan negotiations. As a result, we believe the Board already possesses the necessary tools to oversee the Island’s finances and, when combined with the federal government’s existing authorities regarding the use of disaster funds, should be sufficient to protect U.S. taxpayers’ interests. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Raúl Grijalva Luis V. Gutiérrez Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress José E. Serrano Adriano Espaillat Darren Soto Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Steny Hoyer Joseph Crowley Colleen Hanabusa Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress William “Lacy” Clay, Jr. Brian Higgins Robert A. Brady Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Dwight Evans Richard Neal Peter Welch Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Norma I. Torres Grace F. Napolitano Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Grace Meng Brendan F. Boyle Frank Pallone, Jr. Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Charlie Crist Jerrold Nadler Juan Vargas Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Jimmy Gomez Paul Tonko Carolyn B. Maloney Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Donald Norcross James P. McGovern John Garamendi Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Albio Sires Kathleen M. Rice Keith Ellison Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Jacky Rosen Debbie Dingell Ben Ray Luján Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Joseph P. Kennedy, III Hakeem Jeffries Thomas R. Suozzi Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Sean Patrick Maloney Ann McLane Kuster Bill Pascrell, Jr. Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: House Minority Leader, Nancy Pelosi Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations, Nita M. Lowey ###
12.01.2017	57 Members of Congress Write Republican Leadership to Secure Medicaid Funds Washington, DC –As Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands face a growing health care crisis, today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 56 fellow members of Congress in writing to Republican Leadership demanding a temporary 100 percent increase to the federal matching rate for Medicaid funds. Additionally, the lawmakers are urging Congress to ensure evacuees receive Medicaid services in the states where they are forced to relocate. After Hurricane Katrina devastated the gulf coast, Congress took similar measures to provide affected individuals and families with Medicaid coverage. “If Congress fails to do the right thing and act swiftly to increase Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, lives will literally be lost,” said Velázquez. “Just as Congress did for Katrina victims, we have a moral duty to prevent the suffering of our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. December 1, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Mitch McConnell Speaker Majority Leader United States House of Representatives United States Senate H-232, U.S. Capitol 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell: We write to you regarding our grave concerns about the ongoing healthcare crisis in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. To prevent a deepening of the current public health crisis and avoid further fatalities in the U.S. territories we need to ensure that our fellow Americans from Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are able to access the healthcare and coverage they need. This means providing the appropriate Medicaid funding and flexibility to both the U.S. territories and the states receiving individuals displaced by Hurricanes Irma and Maria so those affected are able to receive healthcare services. In the same fashion as the federal Medicaid matching rate was raised for the state of Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina, Congress must act to temporarily increase the federal Medicaid matching rate for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to 100 percent. This will help sustain the underlying program and address the higher demands that Hurricanes Irma and Maria created. This also recognizes that Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands do not have the capacity to provide matching funds to draw down federal dollars under Medicaid as a result of the ongoing humanitarian crisis in the U.S. territories. In addition, Congress must take steps to ensure that evacuees can receive Medicaid services in the states where they were forced to relocate. This is especially important because many with serious health conditions had no choice but to leave the U.S. territories in order to continue their treatments given that Puerto Rico’s and the U.S. Virgin Islands’ infrastructure was so heavily damaged by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Congress should provide full reimbursement for the cost of services provided to dislocated individuals. There is precedent for such action – after Hurricane Katrina, states that hosted evacuees from Louisiana were held harmless for Medicaid costs to provide these individuals and families with coverage. Moreover, in order to streamline eligibility and enrollment processes, Congress should allow self-attestation of eligibility factors for those from the U.S. territories as has been permitted in previous crises such as Hurricane Katrina. Given the devastation, in many cases, Americans from Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands will not have documents to support their applications because they lack access to them, for example, because they were destroyed as a result of the storms. In addition, letting Puerto Rico’s and the U.S. Virgin Islands’ Medicaid agencies temporarily use abbreviated application forms and delay scheduled redeterminations of Medicaid eligibility would help residents who are temporarily displaced and experience delays in receiving and responding to requests sent by mail. Delaying redeterminations can also give agencies more time to handle the likely higher volume of new applicants. New York City took similar steps after the September 11th attacks. Even before Hurricanes Irma and Maria hit Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the U.S. territories faced severe healthcare funding challenges and shortfalls in part because healthcare spending exceeded the capped Medicaid allotment provided by the federal government. Congress engaged in bipartisan negotiations to address these shortfalls to aid the U.S. territories’ ability to provide healthcare to their communities. In fact, before Hurricanes Irma and Maria hit, Congress acted at least twice to provide additional funding to address this ongoing healthcare issue. Once again, we urge action to raise available Medicaid funding and continue to negotiate on a long term structural fix that will address these issues. This will be essential to promoting economic recovery and future growth in the U.S. territories. However, it is important to recognize that without providing a temporary 100 percent federal Medicaid match, even if the caps are lifted, the U.S. territories are unlikely to be able to access such funds given their current inability to provide matching funds to draw down this essential federal funding. We ask that you work immediately to address these issues. We have a duty to our fellow Americans to ease their suffering and prevent further harm in the midst of such a devastating crisis. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Stacey Plaskett José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Luis V. Gutiérrez Raúl Grijalva Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat James P. McGovern Norma J. Torres Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Ruben Gallego Darren Soto Ray Lujan Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Elizabeth H. Esty John B. Larson Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Gregory W. Meeks Barbara Lee Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Sheila Jackson Lee Danny K. Davis Bonnie Watson Coleman Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Bennie G. Thompson Frederica S. Wilson Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Brenda L. Lawrence Eleanor Holmes Norton Terri Sewell Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Lacy Clay Robert A. Brady Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Keith Ellison Doris Matsui André Carson Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Lucille Roybal-Allard Brendan F. Boyle Gwen Moore Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress David Scott Val Demings Mark Pocan Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Bobby Scott Donald Norcross A. Donald McEachin Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Kathy Castor Joe Courtney Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Alma S. Adams John Lewis Lisa Blunt Rochester Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Brian Higgins Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Carol Shea-Porter Louise Slaughter Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Grace Meng Jimmy Panetta Thomas R. Suozzi Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
12.01.2017	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the New York City Council for passing “Certification of No Harassment” (CONH) legislation, which will require building owners with plans to demolish or make significant alterations to their building to prove they have not engaged in harassment of current tenants before their permits are approved. “Harassment of tenants by landlords is an all too pervasive problem throughout our City and this measure will take significant steps to ensure tenants’ rights are protected. We need to work together at all levels of government to prevent abuse by landlords, which is why in Congress I’ve introduced the ‘Landlord Accountability Act.’ I’ll continue working with my Congressional colleagues to advance this bill and with local elected officials to end tenant harassment and empower renters who face abuse by unscrupulous landlords.” ###
11.29.2017	Introduces Legislation to Name Local Post Office after Mabel Lee Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced new legislation to honor the groundbreaking life of Mabel Lee by naming a Chinatown post office in Lee’s memory. A pioneering figure, Lee was a dedicated champion for women’s rights and the Chinese-American community. As the first Chinese woman to receive a PhD from Columbia University, Lee spent her life fighting for women’s suffrage, Chinatown’s residents and the greater New York community. “At a time when women were widely expected to spend a life in the home, Lee shattered one glass-ceiling after another,” said Velázquez. “From speaking out in the classroom to organizing Chinese-American women to secure the right to vote, Lee’s bold vision for Chinatown is very much alive in our community today.” Working to improve her community, Lee tirelessly organized classes for Chinatown’s residents to build skills in areas such as carpentry, radio and typewriting. Moreover, Lee was just 22 years old and a recent graduate of Barnard College when she led a contingent of Chinese and Chinese-American women in a May 1917 pro-suffrage parade in New York City. Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 4463 would rename a Post Office at 6 Doyers Street in Manhattan’s Chinatown, the “Mabel Lee Memorial Post Office.” “I urge my colleagues to honor Ms. Lee’s spirit of resilience and justice by supporting my bill to celebrate her legacy through the naming of the Mabel Lee Memorial Post Office,” said Velázquez. “At a time of great risk, Lee saw no barrier too big towards advancing the rights of women and Chinese-Americans. We owe her tremendous gratitude.” ###
11.28.2017	Three Puerto Rican Members Have Served Together in the House for Decades Washington, D.C – Today, Puerto Rican Representatives José E. Serrano and Nydia M. Velazquez released the following statement in response to Representative Gutierrez’s announcement that he will retire next years after 25 years in Congress. “Today is a sad day. For more than two decades, Luis has been our friend and colleague. He has been a steadfast champion for Puerto Rico, for the immigrant community, and for his constituents in Chicago. Throughout his career, Luis has been a voice for the voiceless and many times dared to take on fights others wouldn’t. His spirit and dedication will be profoundly missed here in Washington and, personally, the two of us will miss fighting in the trenches alongside him on behalf of the vulnerable. While we are saddened to hear of his retirement, we take solace in the fact that our nation is better off because of his service in the People’s House.” ###
11.28.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on news that FEMA awarded and later rescinded a $30 million contract for delivery of tarps in Puerto Rico to a company with no meaningful federal contracting experience: “Nearly every step of the way, the Trump Administration’s response to the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico has been plagued by missteps and shameful inefficiency. While the President has spent his time and energy lavishing praise on his Administration, we now find out that Trump’s FEMA failed to properly vet contractors, causing an inexcusable delay in delivery of supplies to people on the Island desperate for help. As this crisis continues unfolding, lives of our fellow citizens are at stake and we simply cannot afford for further mistakes. In the immediate term, there can be no more excuses and supplies must get to the people who need them on the Island, now. In the longer term, I fully expect and will insist that DHS’ Inspector General carefully examine how this contract was awarded.” ###
11.21.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Trump Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for 50,000 Haitians residing in the United States: “Once again the Trump Administration is showing that it ascribes to a small minded and cold hearted vision of America. Cruelly sending tens of thousands of Haitians back to a country that does not have the capacity to absorb them would be immoral and a stain on our nation’s conscience. “Congress must use the 18-month delay in this decision to fashion a responsible legislative solution. To that end, I will continue pushing my bill, H.R. 4253, the American Promise Act, which would protect TPS beneficiaries from deportation and, ultimately, provide a path to citizenship. “Immigrants protected under this program are our friends and neighbors. We cannot turn our backs on them as this Administration cruelly puts them in peril.” ###
11.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, co-chairs of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Task Force on Puerto Rico, today released the following statement in response to reports that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) would submit a disaster supplemental request of $44 billion to help hurricane affected areas, including Puerto Rico: “Once again the Trump Administration has proven it lacks the will to help Puerto Rico in a comprehensive manner. Puerto Rico is facing a serious humanitarian and economic crisis, and now more than ever the American citizens on the island need our help. This supplemental request fails to provide sufficient funding to help Puerto Rico address immediate needs and set itself on the road to recovery. We also understand that it fails to provide a solution to the potentially devastating Medicaid cliff that is currently facing Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Moving forward without significant changes will only hinder the Puerto Rican government’s capacity to address the situation on the ground and will contribute to further suffering on the island. We will work with our colleagues in Congress to increase funds in the supplemental and help ensure Puerto Rico and its 3.4 million American citizens have the necessary aid to face this crisis head on. While we understand that OMB plans further supplemental appropriations requests, we believe that more must be done now,” said the co-chairs of the CHC Task Force on Puerto Rico. ###
11.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – With ongoing negotiations over tax reform, Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Puerto Rico Taskforce sent a letter to Republican leaders in Congress urging the inclusion of tax provisions that will help rebuild Puerto Rico. The letter was signed by Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Darren Soto (D-FL), and Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). A copy of the full letter is below. For a PDF, click here. The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Mitch McConnell Speaker Majority Leader United States House of Representatives United States Senate H-232, U.S. Capitol 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell: Puerto Rico, home to 3.4 million Americans, is in a crisis following a decade-long recession, fiscal turmoil, and devastation from two recent hurricanes. Addressing the needs of these citizens is our duty as fellow Americans, which is why we were sorely disappointed with the tax packages currently being considered in both the House and Senate. Both bills ignore the special circumstances facing the Island as a Commonwealth of the United States, given that Puerto Rican residents cannot avail themselves of some of tax benefits provided to residents on the mainland. While we support efforts to fix our broken tax code, both bills fail to provide enough relief to assist in Puerto Rico’s long-term recovery, and we strongly encourage additional provisions be included in both bills before final passage. Specifically, we ask that you include permanency for the rum cover and Section 199 domestic manufacturing production credit for Puerto Rico, expand the child tax credit (CTC), extend the use of the earned income tax credit (EITC), and address problems for companies operating in Puerto Rico. We applaud the effort to include the now-expired cover-over of rum excise taxes to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Section 199 tax credit for domestic manufacturing in Puerto Rico. However, as drafted, these provisions are only temporary and do not go far enough. To better meet the needs of the Island, it is critical that you retroactively make permanent these two code sections. The rum cover would provide budgetary support to the territorial governments, while the Section 199 credit would be another step toward job creation and economic growth in the territories, helping the island’s immediate recovery and long-term fiscal health. Additionally, we should ensure that working families in Puerto Rico are provided with the same tax relief that Americans in the mainland receive. The CTC was established in 1997 and is a critical tool to help lift families out of poverty by providing a refundable credit. Yet, only families in Puerto Rico with three or more children are eligible. As was recommended by the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico, Section 24 of the Internal Revenue Code should be amended to allow for families with fewer than three children to claim the credit and for the more generous formula - the one available in all 50 states and the District of Columbia - to be used to calculate the amount of the refund payment. In addition to the CTC, the EITC is another method by which Congress can modify the tax code to benefit individuals and families in Puerto Rico. The EITC has a substantial impact on families’ economic security and has been a proven financial incentive since its establishment in 1975. Unfortunately, Puerto Rico residents have never been granted the ability to utilize the EITC. The extension of EITC to Puerto Rico would boost labor force participation and consumer spending by rewarding the work of low-income families. Finally, while it is admirable to reform the international tax system, the bills remove any existing incentives for multinational companies to invest in Puerto Rico; and therefore disregarding a central tenant of tax reform–encouraging domestic investment and employment. Because corporate income attributed to Puerto Rico operations is treated as foreign, the tax proposals impose excessive tax liabilities on companies that have proven their dedication to investing in their local operations and employees. Therefore, we recommend that Congress work to ensure that Puerto Rico is not harmed by changes made in the tax reform process. Congress can and must do more to help our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico. These changes to your respective bills represent positive steps forward to ensure all Americans are treated more equitably under the tax code. As you continue your work on a compromise tax package, we urge you to include these proposals and protect the interests of citizens who need our help. We appreciate your immediate attention to this matter and look forward to working with you in a bipartisan way to bring a tax reform package that contemplates the unique relationship the United States shares with Puerto Rico. Sincerely, Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Darren Soto (D-FL), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). ###
11.15.2017	In Aftermath of Maria, Lawmakers Urge Complete Relief of Island’s Crushing Debt Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) wrote the Chairman of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico urging the Board to request that the Court overseeing Puerto Rico’s debt restructuring completely write off the Island’s debt obligations. “The people of Puerto Rico are demonstrating remarkable spirit in the face of great hardship, but the Island’s longstanding debt could hamper recovery and set the Island back by decades,” said Velázquez. “Even President Trump previously suggested we ‘wipe out’ Puerto Rico’s debt. While Puerto Rico was previously suffering from its financial state, the advent of Maria now means that its debt load will prevent the Island from recovering from this once in a generation humanitarian crisis. It is morally incumbent on the Court to take these factors into account, eliminate this debt and give Puerto Rico a fresh start to rebuild. Congress allowed for this in passing PROMESA and now the Oversight Board and the Court should exercise this option.” “Puerto Rico was in a terrible financial squeeze even before Hurricane Maria. Now, with the island devastated, the Oversight Board surely recognizes there is no way Puerto Rico can service its debt,” said Senator Warren. "Puerto Rico's budget should go to rebuilding the island and addressing its ongoing humanitarian crisis, not paying Wall Street vulture funds.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. November 15, 2017 Mr. José B. Carrión Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Chairman Carrión: As Puerto Rico continues to suffer the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Maria, its delicate financial situation renews many longstanding questions about its capacity to shoulder its crushing debt load. We are pleased that you are setting aside the previously approved Fiscal Plan that sought to implement fiscal cuts and are working to rewrite a plan that considers the storm’s damages and the resulting population flight. As you work toward the next iteration of a Fiscal Plan—which we believe should extend for longer than the five years proposed—we urge you make a request to Judge Swain to completely discharge the Commonwealth’s and its instrumentalities’ debt. After over a year of delving deep into the reality of Puerto Rico’s state of affairs, you are more than aware of the precarious situation the Island has been in—a position that has been dramatically worsened since Hurricane Maria. If the situation is not reversed, Puerto Rico will face the possibility of total collapse. This is not news to the Oversight Board. As Executive Director Natalie Jaresko recently testified, “Without unprecedented levels of help from the United States government, the recovery we were planning for will fail…. The hurricane-caused damage has added greatly—and will add greatly—to the financial distress of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities.” She also warned that “Puerto Rico is experiencing a massive population exodus.”[1] We have concerns about whether Congress’s response will be sufficient. In the first tranche of disaster relief money for the island, Congress approved a $4.9 billion loan to ease an imminent liquidity crisis. But offering Puerto Rico loans, not grants, on top of their already astronomical obligations, and subsequently requesting offsets[2] for true emergency needs in Puerto Rico, is disrespectful. If assistance falls short of what the island needs, people will die, basic needs will go unmet, and Puerto Ricans who can exit the island will do so in even greater numbers, further deteriorating territory’s tax base and long-term economic outlook. Irrespective of Congress’s response, creditors must now finally face the reality that Puerto Rico will never be able to repay its preexisting debt, and the Oversight Board must act in accordance with that reality too. The Puerto Rican economy has experienced a double-digit-percentage decline in the past decade. Poverty rates have risen steeply, with 58 percent of children living below the U.S. federal poverty line. Well over 10 percent of the population has left the island in the past decade due to the scarce economic opportunity there and now, post-Maria, that percentage could be mirrored in just two years. Already, tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans have fled to the mainland since the hurricane. Furthermore, researchers have found that Puerto Rico’s capacity to repay post-Maria is hopeless. The Hurricane’s aftermath is expected to reduce economic output by 21 percent within the next 15 years.[3] Even if Puerto Rico is able disrupt its freefall descent and ultimately recover, the question still looms: what happens to the debt? The bottom line is that Puerto Rico is insolvent; the devastation and concomitant accelerated outmigration has deteriorated the Island’s repayment capacity. Unless the debt is completely written off, the economy will be permanently destroyed. The Puerto Rico Oversight Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) law created a framework, based on the Territorial Clause of the U.S. Constitution, that should be immediately employed to write off all of Puerto Rico’s debt. The Board should seize this as an opportunity to ease the burden on millions of U.S. citizens. It is only fair that after decades of succumbing to unsustainable debt agreements, the people of Puerto Rico be assured that its debt will not be a permanent overhang to economic development on the island. With so many residents still in grave need of basic supplies, we are at a pivotal time in Puerto Rico’s history. I hope that you will embrace at this time the legal path to discharge Puerto Rico’s debt through PROMESA. Yes, the people of Puerto Rico are resilient, but they need help. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Elizabeth Warren Member of Congress United States Senator Cc: Natalie Jaresko, Executive Director, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Andrew G. Biggs, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Carlos M. García, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Arthur J. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico José R. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Ana J. Matosantos, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico David A. Skeel, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Christian Sobrino Vega, Ex-officio Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico
11.14.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor in opposition to HR 2874, the 21st Century Flood Insurance Reform, a bill that would cheat working families out of quality flood insurance. Below are her remarks, as prepared for delivery: “I rise in opposition to HR 2874. This bill makes flood insurance more expensive, less available, and less fair for millions of working families. And, this bill all but abandons Hurricane Sandy victims. “Sandy made landfall in New York and New Jersey five years ago causing approximately $60 billion in damage. More than 50 people lost their lives. Today—half a decade later—more than 1,000 homeowners still have not obtained proper resolution of their flood insurance claim. “That’s why I worked for almost a year-and-a half on legislation to improve FEMA’s claims processing system and to bring proper oversight and management to the Write-Your-Own program. While some of my recommended changes were included in this bill, language was also included that blows a direct hole in these reforms. This bill requires policyholders to “exhaust all administrative remedies” on any disputed claim before having their day in court. “However, we have already seen that FEMA’s administrative system is broken – and this bill would enable dishonest insurance providers to continue hiding behind an unreachable threshold --- meaning policyholders will never be made whole. “After more than five years, with more than 1,000 families still awaiting resolution of their Sandy claim, we must seek to meaningfully reform the claims process -- not make it harder for families to return to their home. “A vote for this bill is a vote to abandon Sandy victims. Vote “NO”. I yield back.” To watch a video of the Congresswoman’s speech, click here. ###
11.09.2017	Introduces Two Bills on Eve of Veterans Day Washington, D.C. – On the day before Veterans Day, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced two new bills that extend health care benefits to veterans who suffered blast injuries and hearing impairment while in the line of duty, helping close a gap in our medical care system for those who served in conflicts abroad. “Our veterans made a choice to put their lives on the line for our country,” said Velázquez. “It is morally incumbent on us to honor their service with not just lip service, but tangible actions. Service members who place their lives on the line for our freedoms often carry psychological and physical wounds for the rest of their lives. Congress must work to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve.” Currently, a veteran receiving benefits through the Veterans Administration (VA) must have documented proof that an injury was obtained in the line of duty. This creates a devastating coverage gap for those who develop service-related injuries or illnesses later in life. Unfortunately, blast victims are likely to suffer repercussions like PTSD throughout their lives. Velázquez’s first bill, H.R. 4321 the Blast Exposure Protection Act of 2017 would extend health care coverage for illnesses that blast victims experience later in life. “It is our duty to help veterans make the transition to civilian life as smooth as possible,” said Velázquez. “By cutting off health care benefits, we are doing the opposite. I am taking legislative action to close this coverage gap and take care of veterans, whether their injuries manifest right away or years later when they return to civilian life.” Velázquez’s second bill, H.R. 4320 the Hear our Heroes Act of 2017 will extend service connection benefits to veterans who suffered hearing loss or tinnitus and were diagnosed after a discharge. In 2011, nearly 8% of all American veterans receiving government compensation suffered from hearing loss. Both bills have been endorsed by the Blinded Veterans Association and Veterans of Foreign Wars. “The Blinded Veterans Association (BVA), welcomes the introduction of the Blast Exposure Protection Act of 2017 and the Hear our Heroes Act of 2017,” said Melanie Brunson, Director of Government Relations at Blinded Veterans Association. “This legislation addresses a serious need experienced by a significant number of our nation’s veterans whose injuries, though severe and life altering, are not discernable until months or even years after they occur. We urge Congress to support these bills, and give the men and women who are exposed to blasts and other battlefield trauma while serving our country, access to the essential healthcare they need.” “Every day, the men and women of our armed forces willingly put themselves in harm’s way in defense of our nation and its interests,” said Bob Wallace, Executive Director at Veterans of Foreign Wars. “At any given moment, service members can be exposed to environmental hazards that often times will not manifest until years after they transition out of the military. This is especially true during wartime when roadside bombs and sustained gunfire are an everyday occurrence. It is because of this that the Veterans of Foreign Wars is proud to support the Blast Exposure Protection Act of 2017 and the Hear our Heroes Act of 2017, which would ensure that our service members and veterans are able to receive the care that they have earned after they are exposed to acoustic trauma.” “As our country prepares to recognize Veterans Day, we should go beyond ceremonies and kind words,” said Velázquez. “We must honor our veterans each and every day by welcoming them back into civilian life with the utmost care, dignity and respect.” ###
11.07.2017	Pair of Bills Introduced Following Las Vegas, Texas Shootings Washington, D.C. – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced two bills to curb gun sales and crack down on the illegal pipeline of firearms entering New York. Velázquez announced her measures one month after the Las Vegas massacre, the deadliest mass shooting in American history, and just a few days after the most recent mass shooting tragedy in Texas. In unveiling the bills, Velázquez said she is working to make communities safer from senseless and tragic gun violence. “The repeated lack of action on sensible gun control following mass shootings is unconscionable,” said Velázquez. “Last month, a deranged gunman in Las Vegas stole the lives from 59 innocent concert goers and injured hundreds of others. This weekend, 26 of our fellow citizens – ranging from children to seniors – lost their lives. Our collective outrage cannot be lost in the days following these shootings. Instead, we must take real, concrete action to crack down on illegal sales of guns. For this reason, I have introduced two new bills that take modest but meaningful steps to reduce the scourge of gun violence.” Velázquez’s first bill, the Protecting Americans from Gun Violence Act of 2017, establishes a new fee on gun sales. The Act requires that a $1 fee be collected following every registered background check. In turn, revenue from this tax will help fund research to prevent gun violence and to preserve the operation of background checks. Specifically, the first $10 million collected through the tax would go to fund gun research at the Center for Disease Control (CDC). The National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) is a vital part of preventing those that should not have access to guns from obtaining them. However, as seen in the recent Texas shooting, there are gaps in the system. In Texas, the gunman’s past criminal record should have prohibited him from passing a background check. To help address these gaps, the Act would provide $5 million to explore these deficiencies and strengthen the NICS system. “For two decades, the NRA and their weapons manufacturing patrons have suppressed funding to study gun violence like the public health epidemic that it is,” said Velázquez. “While much more is needed beyond studies, closing the gap in data on gun violence will be an important step toward addressing the overarching problem. Equally important, under this bill, the research will be funded by the purchasers and sellers of firearms. Those who buy and sell these instruments of death should pay for the research examining their impact.” Velázquez’s second bill, the Stopping the Iron Pipeline Act of 2017 will create a national standard for embedding technology within a firearm that would allow the weapon to be identified. The “iron pipeline” is an underground route used to smuggle guns from states with more permissive gun laws into places like New York. The Act would ease the process of identifying weapons, allowing law enforcement to trace the origin of guns used in crimes. Moreover, under Velázquez’s bills, firearm owners would be required to report the loss or theft of a gun to their respective local law enforcement authority within 48 hours after discovering its theft or loss. A person failing to report such theft or loss is subject to a penalty of $10,000, 1 year in prison, or both, for each firearm not reported. The legislation requires local law enforcement authorities to report lost or stolen firearms within 7 days of receiving a report. The report is then to be transmitted to the National Crime Information Center. “Our nation is awash in guns. Too often, these stolen weapons end up on the black market, transported to other states and used in crimes,” Velázquez noted. “Gun owners need to take responsibility and report to authorities when their firearms go missing or are stolen. Not only will this help track weapons used in crimes, but it will encourage those who do own guns to be responsible for them.” Velázquez, a longstanding proponent for sensible gun control, has previously supported legislation to ban assault weapons like those used by the Las Vegas and Texas shooters. She has also supported efforts to prohibit bump stocks, technology that increases the rate of fire and that was used during the Las Vegas shooting. Additionally, Velázquez opposes any measure to ease restrictions on gun silencers. ###
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for over 2,500 Nicaraguans living in the U.S. and delay a decision on the status of 57,000 Hondurans: “This is a heartless decision that will rip families apart and inflict harm on some of our most vulnerable neighbors. These immigrants have lived here for two decades, planting roots in their communities and contributing to local economies. Abruptly asking them to leave is morally unconscionable and makes for bad policy. I will continue pushing my legislation, the American Promise Act, HR 4253, which would afford these hardworking immigrants Legal Permanent Residence and create an opportunity for citizenship.” ###
11.03.2017	Measure Comes with President Trump’s Decision on Program Pending Washington, D.C. -- With concerns mounting among immigrant communities about the Trump Administration’s immigration policies, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to protect from deportation individuals who currently receive Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED). In recent weeks, there has been increasing fear that the Trump Administration will terminate TPS for individuals from certain countries such as El Salvador, Haiti and Nicaragua, potentially resulting in their deportation. Velázquez’s bill would ensure individuals who have resided in the U.S. under these programs for a period of three years can remain in the country and pursue a path to naturalization. The legislation was cosponsored by House Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley (D-NY) and Reps. Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Karen Bass (D-CA). “Those in the TPS program are some of our most vulnerable neighbors who have fled natural disasters and political conflict at great personal risk,” said Velázquez. “It would be inhumane to force these families and individuals who have built lives in the U.S. to abruptly leave.” “These individuals deserve protection and the ability to stay in the United States. They’ve passed numerous extensive background checks and have a strong history of contributing to our communities. Democrats will not stop fighting until our most vulnerable immigrants, such as these individuals, DREAMers, and their families, have security in the U.S.,” said House Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley (D-NY). “I am deeply troubled that the President may remove protected legal status for Salvadorans, Hondurans, Haitians and other TPS beneficiaries escaping conflict and natural disasters in their home countries. The President would be forcing families, many who have lived in the U.S. for nearly 20 years and have made significant contributions to the U.S. economy, to leave the country or work here unlawfully. Many of their children—nearly 275,000 of them—have known no other home than the United States. Deporting them is neither sensible nor compassionate. Creating a pathway to permanent, lawful residency for these individuals is the right thing to do,” said Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) “It would be incredibly hypocritical to turn our backs on people from Somalia and Sudan, which are experiencing extreme food insecurity, or people from South Sudan, the youngest country on Earth that the U.S. has continued to support, by eliminating the TPS program. The entire reason we have this program is to help protect immigrants from ills in their home country, which can range from famine to civil war. The proposed crack down on recipients of the Temporary Protected Status program would not only cause a hit to the economy, but also in some cases, cost some recipients their lives. We have a moral obligation to protect these families and I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join us in supporting this important piece of legislation,” said Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA) TPS is a form of safe haven for people fleeing dangerous situations, but who are not legally considered refugees. Many have been concerned that the Trump Administration could change the criteria by which people are eligible for TPS and order those currently enrolled in the initiative to return to their country of origin. A recent study suggests that 80.3% of TPS holders from Central America pay taxes, including 79.3% of people who are self-employed. In that study, the average TPS holder contributed funds to social security for 15.4 years. A case study suggests that deportation of 300,000 TPS holders from El Salvador, Honduras and Haiti would cost the U.S. government over $3 billion. “Not only is it morally appropriate to ensure TPS recipients can remain, it is also good fiscal and economic policy,” Velázquez added. The legislation was endorsed by a wide range of labor, immigration and other advocacy groups. Patricia Abrego, member of Make the Road New York and TPS beneficiary on Long Island, said: “The American Promise Act gives me and my family hope in this moment of deep uncertainty. We have lived in this country with TPS for 18 years after fleeing El Salvador. Our lives are here in this country, and going back to El Salvador would be a likely death sentence given the conditions there right now. My family is grateful to Rep. Velázquez for introducing this bill, which recognizes that we are an integral part of our community and that we deserve protection and the ability to adjust our status and remain in this country.” Ana Maria Archila, Co-Executive Director of the Center for Popular Democracy said, “TPS recipients came to this country fleeing natural disasters and civil wars. TPS enabled them to build new lives in the United States, and now they call this country home. They are parents and grandparents, business owners and community leaders. But now they face the possibility of their lives being upended, their families torn apart. We are calling on Congress to take immediate action and pass the American Promise Act to avoid this unnecessary crisis and to formalize what these individuals are: permanent residents of the United States.” Oscar Chacon, Executive director of Alianza Americas said, “Many TPS & DED holders have lived in the United States for decades, working hard, building businesses, buying homes, and raising families. We applaud Rep. Velázquez for championing this legislation that finally recognizes and formalizes what these TPS and DED holders are—permanent residents of the United States—and call on her colleagues in Congress to follow her leadership in honoring these individuals’ many contributions to our communities.” "Church World Service stands with the approximately 330,000 TPS holders in the United States and calls on our elected leaders for a path forward. We need Congress to enact a legislative solution that protects TPS holders from being uprooted from their communities and being separated from their families. Representative Velazquez’s American Promise Act does just that. TPS holders take care of our children, build our houses, and serve us our food. They are our neighbors. Failing to protect our community members is callous. CWS will continue to stand for the American values of hospitality, generosity, and compassion for TPS holders,” said Rev. John L. McCullough the President and CEO of CWS. “Today, there are over 300,000 Honduran, Nicaraguan, Haitian, and Salvadoran TPS holders who are at risk of losing their protected status, many of which have resided in the U.S. legally for almost two decades. They are vital members of our communities, and have contributed significantly to our Nation’s economy. TPS beneficiaries are also some of the most vulnerable populations in the U.S, having been displaced by war, natural disasters and other extraordinary events in their home countries that persist today. UnidosUS is committed to working toward fair and commonsense administrative and legislative solutions and this bill advances those efforts and is in line with our fundamental values of fairness and the need to find to permanent solution,” said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, Deputy Vice President, Office of Research, Advocacy, and Legislation, UnidosUS. "This is one of the most important bills that has been introduced in Congress this year," said SEIU Executive Vice President Rocio Saenz. "Hundreds of thousands of people with TPS are now living precariously, fearful that they may lose their jobs and be ordered to leave the United States after living here legally, peacefully and productively for years. These decent people deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, and the American Promise Act would do that. SEIU members will continue to make their voices heard until Congress acts." Jose Calderon, President, Hispanic Federation stated: “For two decades, the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) has offered shelter to persons fleeing war or natural disaster. Hondurans and Salvadorans, Haitians and Nicaraguans are just some of the people who we have welcomed into the United States to shield them from the devastation afflicting their homelands. The Trump Administration's calls to end the TPS program are yet another assault on immigrants and our tradition as a beacon of hope for those in harm's way. TPS holders regularly pass stringent background checks, they are parents to American citizens, and contribute to the strength of the US economy and the diversity of our society. Ending TPS will not make us richer or safer; it will diminish us. We applaud Representative Velasquez for introducing The American Promise Act (APA). The APA will protect the 300,000 TPS recipients who reside in the United States legally. We urge Congress to act quickly and vote for its passage.” ###
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, House Republicans released the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”, a massive tax break for the rich at the expense of hardworking, everyday Americans. In response, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement: “This cynical effort fails American families and workers. Rather than expanding critical tax benefits for working families and parents, the bill maintains the status quo and even eliminates or greatly reduces highly used provisions, like the work opportunity tax credit, the medical expense deduction, the mortgage interest deduction, and the deduction for interest payments on education loans and tuition expenses. “These tax cuts are a thinly veiled effort to satisfy Wall Street and the wealthiest Americans. In this devastating effort, Republicans are stealing from the future of America’s young people by making it harder to afford an education and buy a home. For New Yorkers, gutting the state and local tax deduction and eliminating private activity bonds will deliver a crushing blow to middle class families and will lower property values. “This bill makes one thing very clear—Republicans are shamefully out to serve the interests of corporate America above those who need it most – the country’s hardworking families.” ###
10.30.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Paul Manafort and his associate Rick Gates have been indicted by the Special Counsel: “We need to be clear: many of these criminal charges against Paul Manafort, President Trump’s Campaign Chairman, are alleged to have occurred at the same time as the U.S. Presidential campaign. Moreover, news that George Papadopoulos has pled guilty to lying about communications with Russian government representatives suggests there may be additional evidence of collusion. “While I continue believing that Mr. Mueller will conduct a thorough, vigorous investigation, I also believe we need an independent commission to examine how Russia interfered in our election and how such meddling can be prevented in the future.” In December of last year, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel to investigate Russia’s involvement in the 2016 elections. She repeated that call following Michael Flynn’s resignation, Attorney General Sessions’ recusal and Rep. Nunes’ recusal as Chair of the Intelligence Committee. # # #
10.29.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Governor of Puerto Rico has called for cancellation of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority’s contract with Whitefish and started the process of entering “mutual aid” agreements with the states of Florida and New York: “I am pleased the Governor has taken this necessary step. As I have said previously, my primary concern in all of this is seeing power restored for the people of Puerto Rico. “We cannot afford further delay in achieving this goal. To that end, going forward, I will be looking closely at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to ensure they are providing appropriate assistance and expertise.”
10.27.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) statement disputing it approved the contract between Whitefish and the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA): “While there may have previously been troubling concerns about PREPA’s selection of an obscure company to restore Puerto Rico’s power, FEMA’s most recent statement makes clear that this contract should never have been signed. Despite claims to the contrary – in black and white in the contract - FEMA has now stated publicly and unequivocally that it never approved the contract. Moreover, the agency is suggesting it could potentially not release funds to pay for work being performed. “As this fiasco unfolds, three-quarters of Puerto Rico still remains without power. The question now becomes -- what is next? This boondoggle needs to end. Taxpayers need to know their dollars are spent wisely and, even more importantly, power restoration in Puerto Rico must happen quickly. To that end, the contract with Whitefish should be voided. PREPA should move to enter mutual aid agreements with other power authorities to rapidly restore power. If PREPA requires additional authority to take such steps, they should make that clear immediately. “People in Puerto Rico are suffering and dying. Government waste and abuse should never be acceptable, but these actions are especially irresponsible during a humanitarian crisis when lives are at stake.” * * * Language in the contract between PREPA and Whitefish states, “By executing this Contract, PREPA hereby represents and warrants that FEMA has reviewed and approved of this Contract, and confirmed that this Contract is in an acceptable form to qualify for funding from FEMA or other U.S. Governmental agencies.” FEMA has since issued a statement that reads, in part, “Any language in any contract between PREPA and Whitefish that states FEMA approved that contract is inaccurate.” In addition, in what is likely a legally unenforceable provision, the contract precludes proper review and oversight of the arrangement between PREPA and Whitefish, stating, “In no event shall PREPA, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the FEMA Administrator, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives have the right to audit or review the cost and profit elements of the labor rates specified herein.” # # #
10.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) highlighted a new report that details the hardship that will be imposed upon New York’s working families under the Republican tax plan. While 80 percent of the tax benefits in the GOP plan go to the wealthiest 1 percent alone, 2.1 million hard-working New York families would be forced to pay higher taxes. “It is shameful that Republicans are selling this plan as beneficial for working Americans,” said Velázquez. “A simple look at the facts exposes their plan for what it really is—a devastating blow to everyday Americans at the expensive of yet another tax break for the super-rich. These Republican efforts are tax cuts, plain and simple. In contrast, meaningful tax reform would put working Americans ahead of Wall Street greed.” For the 3.4 million New York households who deduct state and local taxes (SALT) at an average rate of $22,169, the Republican plan would get rid of this deduction in its entirety. The elimination of this deduction would dangerously lower home values and put additional pressure on municipal governments to pick up the tab in funding schools, roads and public spaces. Additionally, the tax increase on middle-class families earning up to $86,100 comes out to $794, money that could otherwise be spent on electric bills, groceries, or childcare. “We simply cannot afford a tax plan by which the rich get richer and the poor get poorer,” said Velázquez. “The Republican tax plan completely betrays our values of equality and opportunity by further stacking the deck against middle and low-income Americans. I call on Congress to immediately reject such a shameful bill.” ###
10.25.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Oversight Board has appointed a Chief Transformation Officer (CTO) for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA): “Puerto Rico’s recovery depends on a reliable electrical system. Yet, one month after Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, seventy five percent of the Island remains without electrical power. “PREPA has made clear it is not equipped for the enormous task of quickly restoring the Island’s power. Initially, the utility decided to forego ‘mutual aid’ agreements with other power authorities that have previously proven effective in rapidly restoring power in other hurricane-impacted areas. The Authority’s dubious decision to contract with a small, inexperienced and obscure company further underscored the need for intervention. It is therefore completely appropriate for the Board to step in by making this appointment. As I have said previously, under PROMESA, the Oversight Board is not just authorized to take this action -- it has a legal responsibility to do so. This appointment should be approved expeditiously. “Going forward, the new CTO should present a clear plan as to how it will work with FEMA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. There must be full transparency throughout this process so the U.S. taxpayer has confidence federal resources are being wisely spent and, more importantly, that everything possible is being done to assist the Puerto Rican people and quickly restore power.” ###
10.24.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the New York City Board of Elections is admitting it broke state and federal law when removing voters from voter rolls in Brooklyn last year: “The right to vote is fundamental. Americans and especially minority communities have made profound sacrifices to secure the franchise. I am pleased that the Board will be required to take steps to address this problem in the future. I will keep a close eye to ensure these steps are sufficient to prevent this situation from ever occurring again.” Last year, it was reported that voters in Velázquez’s Congressional District were disproportionately affected by the illegal voter roll purge. ###
10.23.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) sent a letter demanding that both the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico provide diligent oversight of federal contracts awarded to rebuild the Island after Hurricane Maria. After disturbing news reports that a company chosen to repair Puerto Rico’s electric grid may not have been properly vetted, Velázquez is concerned over an apparent lack of oversight. “Due to the Island’s current state of affairs, there is a legitimate and unquestionable need to expedite the process of restoring power and water for the residents in Puerto Rico,” Velázquez wrote in the letter. “However, such an accelerated procurement process should not be without sufficient safeguards and proper oversight mechanisms.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. October 23, 2017 The Honorable Brock Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Mr. José B. Carrión III Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Administrator Long and Chairman Carrión: I am writing to express my grave concerns regarding the recently established contracts between Puerto Rico’s instrumentalities and private entities in the wake of Hurricane Maria. Due to the Island’s current state of affairs, there is a legitimate and unquestionable need to expedite the process of restoring power and water for the residents in Puerto Rico. However, such an accelerated procurement process should not be without sufficient safeguards and proper oversight mechanisms. Recent news report have suggested that a contract pertaining to electric power transmission may not have been properly vetted.[1] Given such concerns and that federal funds are being used for this contract, I am worried that taxpayers and residents of Puerto Rico could be short-changed. For these reasons, I ask that both FEMA and the Board exercise their oversight authorities regarding any and all contracts entered into by Puerto Rico or its instrumentalities that make use of federal funds. In doing so, FEMA and the Board should ensure that contractors, especially for large-scale projects, are equipped to carry out the full scope of the contract and that taxpayers and local residents are protected from waste, fraud, and abuse. Such oversight is appropriate given FEMA’s central role in the disaster response effort and as the primary agency source for federal disaster funds. The Board’s role emanates from its statutory authority in section 204 of the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (PL 114–187), which specifies that the Board has the authority to review contracts. Should you have any questions, please contact my staff at (202) 225-2361. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress [1] https://weather.com/news/news/puerto-rico-power-whitefish ###
10.18.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the rap video “Happy Ending” by hip-hop performer “Hopsin”: “This video blatantly plays on racist and sexist stereotypes about Asian women and their sexuality. Not only does this offensive song and video demean Asian people, but it ignores the fact that many women in massage parlors like those depicted in the piece are human trafficking victims. Hopsin is essentially celebrating human trafficking and lampooning those who have been forced into prostitution. I encourage all online music platforms to stop carrying this offensive song and video.” ###
10.13.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Eddie Chiu, a tireless and beloved advocate for the residents of New York City’s Chinatown. "Eddie was a pillar of our local community, always looking out for his neighbors and steadfastly working to empower New York's Asian American and immigrant communities. As the leader of the Lin Sing Association, Eddie was widely known throughout the Chinatown community as a humble and tireless voice for the people. “Eddie was a good friend who will be profoundly missed. My thoughts go out to his family and all who loved him. I hope they take comfort knowing his legacy lives on in the many lives he touched." ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor regarding the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for disaster relief. Below are her remarks, as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, the people of Puerto Rico – 3.5 million of our fellow citizens – are suffering. The mayor of my hometown, Yabucoa, says as many as 5,000 residents potentially face starvation. More than 85 percent of the Island is without electricity. One-third of Puerto Ricans lack access to drinkable water which will surge the number of bacterial infections and mosquito-borne illnesses. “Using unreliable generators for electrical power – and with a shortage of diesel – hospitals and health centers are scaling back services for those in critical need. Most people on Island don’t even know what their neighbors are going through because communications systems were demolished by Maria. “As Puerto Rico faces this humanitarian crisis, the President of the United States is Tweeting out threats to withdraw assistance. That is an outrage – and an abdication of the President’s solemn duty to protect the safety and security of the American people. “Where the President is failing to lead, Congress must act – and act now. The legislation we are debating today is far from sufficient. It is not enough. But, it is the start -- a “down payment” in helping the response process. It will keep FEMA operating, removing debris and distributing food and water. “It also helps Puerto Rico’s government address a looming cash shortfall. With the government running out of money by the first of November, vital services could be suspended -- when residents can least afford it. “This bill will provide a short term cash infusion for the government to keep going. And, the way this assistance is structured under the law, these funds will likely not be paid back --- which is reasonable given the challenges Puerto Rico faces. “Let’s be clear – there is going to need to be much more assistance in the future. Puerto Rico will need help rebuilding its energy grid, repairing telecommunications networks and putting its ports, bridges and roads back together. And, we cannot forget shoring up the Island’s Medicaid system – something that was critical before Maria – but is even more important now. This problem is of Congress’ making – and we must fix it. “Make no mistake -- those priorities will require more money– and we will need to come back an address them in a few weeks. “The people of Puerto Rico are American citizens. They have fought in our wars, shed blood and, in some cases, died for our freedoms. We cannot abandon them now. While this bill is a start, we must not rest until we have made Puerto Rico whole. I yield back.” For a video of the speech, click here. ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the tragic death of New York Fire Department EMT Kevin Liang, who was killed on September 30th, while riding his motorcycle on the Kosciuszko Bridge. “My deepest condolences are with the loved ones of Mr. Liang. A dedicated civil servant, Mr. Liang had spent two years as an EMT with our city’s fire department. Moreover, he had recently passed his test to become a firefighter, and was on his way to celebrate with family. “It is imperative that the driver who committed this hit-and-run, be swiftly apprehended and held responsible. Collectively, our city mourns such a tragic loss.” 敬請即時發佈 2017年10月12日 聯絡：Alex Haurek (202) 225-2361 維樂貴絲沉痛哀悼救護員梁凱文離世 【首府華盛頓訊】聯邦眾議員維樂貴絲（Nydia M. Velázquez，紐約州民主黨）就紐約市消防局緊急救護員梁凱文(Kevin Liang，音譯)於 9月30日駕駛摩托車，途經布碌崙考西斯科橋被撞喪生慘劇表達沉痛哀悼。 “我對梁凱文先生的親人致以最深切的慰問。梁先生過去兩年在紐約市消防局擔任緊急救護員，一直是位盡忠職守的優秀公務員。此外，他最近還通過成消防員的考核，出事當天正驅車前往與家人慶祝。 我希望當局能夠迅速逮捕該名不顧而去的肇事司機，並將其繩之於法。對整個紐約市來說，我們所有人都對這宗慘劇感到十分痛心。” ### ###
10.12.2017	With Conflicting Reports, Lawmakers Ask for Thorough Investigation into Total Fatalities Washington, D.C. — Today, Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Homeland Security, wrote the U.S. Department of Homeland Security asking for an investigation into underreporting in the official death toll following Hurricane Maria. In light of news reports suggesting that numbers could be much higher than the official count of 45 lives lost, the lawmakers asked for an official review of casualty counts. “The American people deserve to know what’s happening to their fellow U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico,” Velázquez said. “Given recent reports suggesting that the death toll is much higher than is being officially acknowledged, we need a swift and thorough investigation to ensure the real magnitude of this crisis is made public.” “Having just been in Puerto Rico last weekend, it is clear that the real story of what is happening is not being told by this Administration,” said Thompson. “The federal response is woefully adequate and now we are seeing numerous reports that the death toll is unknown or not being reported accurately. The whole nation deserves to know what is happening to our fellow citizens.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. October 12, 2017 The Honorable Elaine C. Duke Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland of Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Acting Secretary Duke: We are writing with profound concern that Puerto Rico’s official death toll is being woefully underreported. Despite statements from the Administration praising the response efforts by Federal officials, accounts from individuals on the ground and media reports suggest casualty counts are much higher than being officially reported and are therefore distorting the grim realities facing the Island. Recent stories have detailed more than 450 people who died in the wake of Maria, yet only 45 of these deaths appear to be accounted for in official government reports.[1] While it is unclear how many of these casualties are directly attributable to Maria, these numbers call into question the veracity of official governmental death counts. Federal and local agencies need complete transparency from all entities working on this unraveling humanitarian crisis. For all levels of government to provide an appropriate response, we cannot allow the devastation that Hurricane Maria inflicted and the dire circumstances still existing three weeks since the Hurricane made landfall to be obfuscated. It would be morally reprehensible to intentionally underreport the true death toll to portray relief efforts as more successful than they are. If, on the contrary, this information has benignly been muddled due to a lack of capacity on the island, then the Federal government must work hand in-hand with Puerto Rico’s government to provide a clearer assessment. To this end, we are requesting that your agency provide urgent oversight to the vital statistics being reported out of Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria. The American people and their elected officials need a full, fair and accurate portrayal of the situation unfolding in the Island. We would therefore respectfully request that the Department of Homeland Security: • Examine all casualty estimates being provided by any Federal agency and local authorities in Puerto Rico; • Evaluate whether these counts are accurate and whether the methodology being employed is sufficient; and • Report these findings back to Congress within 10 business days. Given the severity of the situation unfolding in Puerto Rico, it is important that Congress have a full accounting of the facts. We thank you in advance for your swift consideration of this request. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Bennie G. Thompson Member of Congress Ranking Member Committee on Homeland Security ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s Tweets this morning suggesting he may attempt to withdraw federal assistance from Puerto Rico: “The President of the United States’ most solemn duty is to protect the safety and the security of the American people. By suggesting he might abdicate this responsibility for our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico, Mr. Trump has called into question his ability to lead. “I would note that the President did not make similar threats to Texas and Florida following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. He should immediately renounce these Tweets and clarify that that our federal government will meet its obligation of assisting U.S. citizens impacted by this once-in-a-generation humanitarian crisis. “Despite the President’s attempts to distract and create division, we will not allow the federal government to abandon Puerto Rico in its time of need.” ###
10.11.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for disaster relief: “Let’s make no mistake, this legislation is just the start of Federal financial support for Puerto Rico. Much more needs to be done, but, for now the bill includes critical measures that the Island needs in the short term to respond to this once-in-a-generation humanitarian crisis. Importantly, in addition to funding emergency assistance from FEMA, the legislation helps address pressing liquidity needs of the Puerto Rican government by providing them with loans to meet a looming cash shortfall. In doing so it is critical that Wall Street creditors are unable to access these federal funds, which are solely intended to help Puerto Ricans begin to rebuild their lives. “Going forward, Puerto Rico faces a long path to full recovery and we cannot rest until the Island is made whole. I fully expect Congress to provide additional assistance, including rebuilding the energy grid, repairing telecommunications networks and mending the infrastructure system. We must also ensure a long term fix for Puerto Rico’s long ailing Medicaid system, something that was a critical priority before Maria, but is even more important now. “I thank Leader Pelosi, Ranking Member Lowey and the House Leadership for their work on this initial package. I look forward to working with my colleagues in coming weeks to address Puerto Rico’s longer term needs.” ###
10.10.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today in response to the Trump Administration’s recently announced immigration priorities: “President Trump’s new demands to crack down on immigration are completely antithetical to America’s long history as a land of opportunity. By stripping away protections for unaccompanied minors at the border to building a wall at the expense of American taxpayers, these ‘priorities’ are beyond heartless. “Congress must reject the President’s repugnant efforts to use nearly 800,000 young hardworking Dreamers as bargaining chips for extreme anti-immigration measures. Instead, we must pass a clean Dream Act to codify DACA once-and-for-all.” ###
10.10.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to scale back the Clean Power Plan: “In recent weeks, our country has been devastated by extreme weather catastrophes. From Puerto Rico to California, hurricanes and massive wildfires have upended entire communities and cost lives. “It is a tragic irony that as we increasingly see the devastating effects of climate change, the Trump Administration is abandoning what progress our nation has made in addressing this crisis. The Clean Power Plan is a landmark set of fiscally and morally responsible standards for climate regulation. By gutting it, the Administration is showing in plain sight its commitment to big coal over America’s children, families and future. “As a country, we have a moral responsibility to preserve our planet by taking all necessary measures to fight the devastating consequences of climate change.” ###
10.06.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Trump Administration’s rollback of a federal mandate requiring employers to cover basic contraception in their employee’s health insurance plans: “This decision by the Trump Administration constitutes an assault on a woman’s fundamental right to autonomy, by handing over their most personal decisions to employers. No one should be forced to choose between paying grocery bills and affording contraception, yet this measure will leave countless women scrambling to afford basic reproductive health care services. “Instead of ripping apart the Affordable Care Act, Republicans must work across the aisle to ensure that women, families and all Americans receive the comprehensive health care they deserve.” ###
10.06.2017	With 10-day Waiver Set to Expire, Lawmaker Asks for Additional Year at Minimum Washington, D.C. — With the Trump Administration’s 10-day waiver of the Jones Act for Puerto Rico set to expire this weekend, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) sent the President a letter today requesting a further extension of at least one year. “On Sunday, this waiver will expire, yet significant numbers of Puerto Ricans remain displaced and still lack food, drinking water and electricity,” Velázquez wrote. “If the Jones Act is reinstated, building supplies will cost significantly more in Puerto Rico, compared to costs on the mainland. With the long road to recovery just beginning, I am asking that the Jones Act waiver for Puerto Rico be extended.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter, click here. October 6, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you know, on September 28th, eight days after Puerto Rico was hit by the worst storm to make landfall on the island in nearly a century, your Administration agreed to waive the Jones Act for a ten-day period. On Sunday, this waiver will expire, yet significant numbers of Puerto Ricans remain displaced and still lack food, drinking water and electricity. With the long road to recovery just beginning, I am asking that the Jones Act waiver for Puerto Rico be extended. The Jones Act artificially drives up the costs of supplies delivered to Puerto Rico. If the Jones Act is reinstated, building supplies will cost significantly more in Puerto Rico, compared to costs on the mainland. This will serve only to slow Puerto Rico’s long term recovery and, further, make the taxpayer pay more to finance reconstruction efforts. Moreover, waiving the Act will make other goods more affordable, stimulating local economic activity at exactly the time Puerto Rico most needs it. As you may be aware, there are bicameral and bipartisan legislative efforts underway to waive the Jones Act for longer periods of time. Unfortunately, the people of Puerto Rico cannot afford to wait for those measures to make their way through the legislative process. I therefore ask you to immediately extend the Jones Act waiver for Puerto Rico for one year, at minimum. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez ### a
10.05.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the passage of the 2018 House Republican Budget Resolution: “The Republican budget is a slap in the face for everyone but billionaires and the wealthiest Americans. For New York’s working families, this heartless proposal rips away healthcare from children, forces students into mountains of debt and drastically cuts funding for public housing. “Instead of bolstering the middle class, Republicans are shortchanging working Americans for the sake of cutting taxes for billionaires. Make no mistake, this budget steals trillions of dollars from the pockets of seniors and working families by taking away a total of $1.1 trillion from Medicaid and $487 billion from Medicare. Nondefense spending such as funding for education, infrastructure and research would be cut by $1.3 trillion over the next 10 years, dipping to a historically low level. “Budgets are about priorities and this budget prioritizes the extraordinarily wealthy ahead of everyone else. We must reject the policies in this budget and work for a fairer economy for all Americans.” ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – In the wake of disturbing news reports that hate mail had been sent to the Israeli Mission to the United Nations, Weiss Bakery and several other prominent Jewish institutions throughout Manhattan and Brooklyn, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement: “Such attacks on our Jewish neighbors are repugnant and have absolutely no place in our City. New Yorkers embrace one another and the fabric of our city is ever strengthened by our diversity. To New York’s rich Jewish community—I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with you in expressing my sheer outrage at these acts of hate.” Velazquez has authored legislation that would dedicate additional federal resources to combat the growing prevalence of hate crimes around the country. Her bill, the Hate Crimes Victim Assistance Act, would authorize an additional $50 million in federal funds to help prevent, track and prosecute hate crimes and assist victims. ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after a video game that spews racist stereotypes against the Chinese community surfaced on multiple internet platforms: “The game ‘Dirty Chinese Restaurant’ is completely repugnant and has no place being sold to consumers. By deploying racist stereotypes such as the eating and slaughtering of cats and dogs, the makers of this game are pursuing messages that serve to perpetuate hate, bigotry and intolerance. The entertainment industry and internet providers should do their part in breaking down racist stereotypes, not perpetuating them.” ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the President’s comments alluding to debt forgiveness for Puerto Rico: “It seems one of the few positives out of the President’s trip to Puerto Rico is an acknowledgement of how the Island’s debt will constrain its physical and economic recovery. While I agree with the sentiment that something will need to be done to address the Island’s financial challenges, the President failed to lay out any specifics as to how he would ‘wipe out’ Puerto Rico’s debt. “I’ve advocated for additional funding to address Puerto Rico’s looming Medicaid cliff, a long term fix for the Island’s Medicaid shortage, a line of credit from the Treasury Department to assist with short term liquidity issues, and a robust funding package to pay for disaster recovery. Since the President seems to acknowledge the difficulties Puerto Rico faces, I’m hopeful he can get behind some of these specific policy proposals. “Last year, after painstaking and difficult negotiations, Congress passed PROMESA to help Puerto Rico restructure its debt. If the President wishes to be further helpful in this regard, I’d encourage him to pick up the phone, call some of Puerto Rico’s creditors directly and ask them to afford the Island greater debt relief.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor today in strong opposition to H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, a clear partisan effort to intimidate health care providers and endanger the lives of countless women: “Mr. Speaker, for over forty years, the landmark Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade has stood as a bulwark protection for women’s reproductive and healthcare rights. Now, in 2017, House Republicans are leading yet another unconstitutional, dangerous and outright assault on women’s health and privacy. “This extreme bill not only takes aim at Roe v. Wade by lowering the ban on abortion to 20-weeks. It goes even further by promising to throw doctors in jail. This is a cynical, repugnant effort by Republicans to pander to a far-right base while jeopardizing women’s health – all for a political payoff. At the same time this House is considering a measure restricting a women’s right to choose – we have not found time to assist 3.5 million American citizens who are suffering – and dying – in Puerto Rico. “You call that pro-life? “I urge Republicans -- listen to the majority of Americans, who support a woman’s right to privacy and a safe abortion. Reject this shameful bill! I yield back.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement commemorating the life and death of Private Danny Chen: “Private Danny Chen’s death was a tragic loss. This young New Yorker, who died after being subjected to unrelenting, racially motivated hazing and abuse by his superiors, wanted only to serve his nation honorably. “Born and raised to Chinese immigrants in Manhattan’s Chinatown, Danny was part of our community and will always be a hero to those seeking justice. We must honor his memory by remaining steadfastly committed to ensuring our military and all aspects of our society are more welcoming, inclusive, diverse and live up to our ideals of justice.” ###
09.29.2017	Congresswoman Velázquez and Senator Elizabeth Warren sent a letter to the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico calling for a complete write-off of the Island's debt. Read the letter, here. In midst of tax reform, the Congresswoman is asking Republican leaders to include tax provisions that will help rebuild Puerto Rico. You can find the letter to House Speaker Ryan and Senate Majority Leader McConnell, here. Velázquez's leads House Democrats in a press conference demanding that Congress pass a supplemental relief package for Hurricane Maria victims, WATCH here. Watch the Congresswoman send a message to President Trump about the history of the United States and Puerto Rico here. You can also catch her speech as featured on CNN, NBC, Washington Post and Buzzfeed. The Congresswoman held a press conference with Leader Nancy Pelosi and National Nurses United to draw attention to the growing public health crisis and lackluster federal response following Maria. Watch the full event here. You can also read about it in NBC News. To watch the Congresswoman speak with CNN's Kate Bolduan, click here. For her interview on "Meet the Press Daily" with MSNBC's Katy Tur, click here. For the Congresswoman's CNN interview with Don Lemon, click here. To see her on MSNBC with Nicolle Wallace, click here. To see her on Democracy Now!, click here. To read her letter along with Congressman Adam Smith to President Trump and Defense Secretary James Mattis, click here. To watch the Congresswoman's floor speech on the House's recovery bill, click here. You can also read a transcript here. To read about her efforts to demand transparency after the Whitefish contract to rebuild Puerto Rico's energy grid, here. To read her statement on PROMESA Oversight Board Appointing Transformation Officer for PREPA, click here. In addition, the Congresswoman has expressed her support for the following measures: Waiving federal matching requirements for recovery programs until both Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands reach economic stability. To read more, click here. Increasing the number of chainsaw teams under the USDA Forest Service in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to help clear debris from the storm. More can be found here. Providing students who resettle in New York after the hurricane with in-state college tuition. Read more, here. A clear outline to OMB Director Mick Mulvaney highlighting the necessary provisions for a comprehensive emergency disaster supplemental. To read, click here. A letter to Congressional Appropriators urging steps for the disaster supplemental after Hurricane Maria. See more, here. An increase in federal funding to assist local educational agencies and institutions affected by the disaster. To read, click here. Rep. Cummings' request for White House documents related to the federal hurricane response in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. To read the letter, click here. Increasing USDA flexibility and food sustainability for hurricane victims. To read the letter to the Agriculture Secretary, click here. Urging the Department of Education under Secretary DeVos to do more to protect student loan borrowers as they work to rebuild their lives after disaster. Read more, here. Writing to the Leadership of the House Ways and Means Committee, urging the Committee to take up bipartisan relief legislation. Read the letter, here. Working alongside Rep. Thompson to author a letter demanding oversight of the official death toll count. Read their letter here. Joining Hispanic Caucus Chair Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham to highlight how the Republican tax bill hurts Puerto Rico, read their letter here. Pressing for answers on Puerto Rico's hurricane-related death toll, after alarming news reports suggest a much darker reality, read her letter with the House Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Rep. Bennie G. Thompson here.
09.28.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding President Trump’s decision to waive the Jones Act for ten days for Puerto Rico: “For an entire week, the President was touting his concern for the shipping industry, while refusing to suspend the Jones Act. Meanwhile, the people of Puerto Rico have been facing a catastrophic humanitarian crisis. Millions of American citizens are without food, water and electricity. Now, the President’s change of heart is too little, too late. “A ten-day waiver, as the Administration has announced, is far from sufficient given the scope of this tragedy. Moreover, as Puerto Rico begins the long road of rebuilding, it will be difficult to do so if building supplies cost double what they are priced on the mainland. To that end, I repeat my previous call for a one-year waiver of the Jones Act. Puerto Rico’s economy was already suffering immensely before Maria and its economy will undoubtedly be devastated from the hurricane. If there were ever a time to consider a longer term suspension of the Jones Act for Puerto Rico, this would be it.” ###
09.27.2017	145 Lawmakers Call on President Trump to Deploy Life-Saving Military Resources Washington, D.C. — Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) and Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 145 Members of Congress in writing a letter to President Trump demanding that the Department of Defense deploy additional resources to aid recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Lawmakers are calling for the appointment of a senior general to oversee all recovery efforts, the deployment of life-saving military capabilities that would otherwise be unavailable to the relief effort, deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln, and an increase in personnel to assist local law enforcement. “President Trump’s effort to aid Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands has been wholly inadequate to date,” said Smith. “When a hurricane hits in the continental United States, you can send massive aid via roads, the National Guard can arrive from neighboring states, and people can leave the affected area. None of that is true here. There is no National Guard Navy, and more than 3.5 million American citizens are isolated and unable to access the most basic supplies. The U.S. military has unique capabilities that can help alleviate this situation, and the President must exercise the proper leadership to make that happen.” “3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a dire humanitarian crisis,” said Velázquez. “I have heard from seniors whose medical needs are not being met due to power outages, children who are suffering from extreme heat in the crowded airport and families who are still unable to contact their loved ones. These are matters of life and death.” “While the situation on the ground remains desperate, President Trump held a press conference yesterday congratulating his Administration on their response,” Velázquez added. “If President Trump doesn’t swiftly deploy every available resource that our country has, then he has failed the people of Puerto Rico -- and this will become his Katrina. Every second in this effort counts and the stakes are too high for further delay, inaction or inefficiency.” The full text of the letter is below and online here with a list of signatories. For a PDF, click here. September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: On September 20th, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands endured a direct impact from Hurricane Maria. With winds up to 160 mph, Hurricane Maria devastated these islands, caused significant power outages, destroyed telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby paralyzed the region. Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation. We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts. As you know, the Department of Defense has additional capabilities that could help alleviate suffering in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and prevent this catastrophe from worsening. First and foremost, a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact. This was done in response to Hurricane Katrina, and we feel the same approach is warranted now for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As we are sure you are aware, in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, there are numerous municipalities that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads. Additional aviation assets are needed to get relief supplies to isolated locations. Additionally, substantial ground and air logistics support is required to get aid to the islands, rescue stranded citizens, and provide them with supplies and thereafter assist with the restoration of power and telecommunications infrastructure if needed. To fulfill DOD's mission, we believe the aircraft carrier, USS Abraham Lincoln, should be sent to the region, similar to its deployment to Miami following Hurricane Irma. DHS has indicated it has "provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria's landfall." While these meals and resources are profoundly needed, unfortunately, there is a large portion of the population that has been underserved. Lastly, DOD has critical resources that could assist with addressing security issues. We have heard reports that the ongoing supply shortages are causing looting and crime. We were recently informed of armed gangs ransacking a warehouse that distributes food and supplies. Defense Department personnel could provide essential support to local law enforcement in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to ensure relief supplies are delivered to those most in need- and that those that have already been immensely devastated by the hurricane, do not need to fear for their lives when filling up their gas at the pump or securing food for their family. We thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact us with any questions. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velazquez Smith Hoyer Crowley Lawson Nadler Holmes Norton Wasserman Schultz Meeks Linda Sanchez Higgins Sires Evans Raskin Napolitano Meng Roybal-Allard Castro Capuano Dingell Quigley Larson Thompson Watson Coleman Carolyn Maloney Frederica Wilson DeGette Deutch Kildee Carbajal Matsui Langevin Takano Price McCollum Welch Doyle Adams Crist Tsongas Engel Veasey Hanabusa Schakowsky Cohen Blumenauer Connolly Sablan Murphy Lowey Slaughter McGovern DeLauro Torres Pallone Castor Gomez Tonko Norcross Correa Sean Patrick Maloney Polis Serrano Costa Lujan Cleaver Shea-Porter Blunt Rochester Robert Brady Barragan Chu Castor Beyer Jackson Lee Lee Demings Yarmuth Boyle Neal Lowenthal Beatty O’Halleran Gutiérrez Moulton Espaillat Bonamici Himes Ryan Cicilline Kaptur Kilmer Rice Lipinski Schneider Soto Suozzi Ellison Courtney Speier Cárdenas Keating Pascrell, Jr. Clarke Waltz Heck Lowey Gabbard Titus Lujan Grisham Clay Carson DeSaulnier McEachin Foster Al Green Plaskett Schiff Payne, Jr. Sarbanes Pingree Lawrence Lynch Lieu Kennedy Scott Peters Jefferies Grijalva Delaney Bustos David Scott Brownley Gene Green Bass Cummings Doggett Khanna Calderon Eshoo Vargas Susan Davis Aguilar Bobby scott Panetta Visclosky Gallego Bera Cc: The Honorable James Mattis, Secretary of Defense
09.26.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the failure of Graham-Cassidy, the latest Senate Republican effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Once again, the American people have stood firm in opposing President Trump’s and Congressional Republicans’ heartless scheme to rip health insurance from millions. The visceral opposition to Graham-Cassidy exposed the bill for what it is—a rushed effort to phase out Medicaid, hike up costs for preexisting conditions and roll back essential health benefits. “I urge Republicans in Congress to put their crusade to gut the Affordable Care Act to rest once and for all. It is time for a measured, bipartisan effort to stabilize health insurance markets and expand affordable coverage for all Americans.” ###
09.26.2017	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement that the federal government will waive regulations requiring local matching funds from Puerto Rico for FEMA disaster relief: “By granting a waiver for federal cost-sharing requirements, the people of Puerto Rico will be able to receive aid from FEMA without further digging into an already devastated local economy. This is something I requested in a letter to DHS yesterday. “The President’s decision is belated and not enough. The waiver only applies for the next 180 days and, given the scope of this crisis, this period will not be sufficient. The President should extend this period to one year, at minimum. In addition, there should be a similar waiver of local matching funds granted for longer term, non-emergency federal assistance. “In addition, the President must waive the Jones Act for one year. The aftermath of Hurricane Maria is nothing short of a humanitarian crisis. Puerto Ricans are without food, clean water and electricity. We must use every tool at our disposal to channel assistance to the Island. “I know the President is traveling to Puerto Rico and hope that trip makes clear to him the scope of the damage, but, again, I believe this decision is also too late. Crises like this require swift, decisive leadership and we need the President to finally give this catastrophe the serious attention it deserves. Lives are on the line. There can be no further delay.” ###
09.25.2017	Request Jones Act Suspension, Exemption from FEMA Matching Funds Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led fellow Members of Congress in writing the U.S. Department of Homeland Security calling for tangible steps to accelerate Puerto Rico’s recovery from Hurricane Maria. The lawmakers are requesting that the Jones Act be temporarily waived in order to expedite supplies being shipped into the Island’s ports. Additionally, the letter asks that Puerto Rico be exempted from requirements that local resources match federal funds expended by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “When Hurricane Maria savaged the Island, many of our deepest fears were realized,” said Velázquez. “With a power grid that already faced serious infrastructure problems, the storm has shut down power for the entirety of Puerto Rico. Even before Maria made landfall, the Island was already suffering from economic and financial crisis. Now, at the worst time possible, the Island has endured a natural disaster of historic proportions. Puerto Rican are Americans who have fought in nearly every major conflict, shedding blood and giving their lives for our country. We cannot and will not turn our backs on them.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. The Mayor of New York praised the letter and offered his support. "New York City stands with Puerto Rico, including more than 700,000 New Yorkers of Puerto Rican descent. We support and applaud Congresswoman Velazquez and her colleagues’ efforts to ensure that recovery and rebuilding can begin as soon as possible. New Yorkers stand at the ready to assist however we can,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio, City of New York. “Puerto Rico is broke and the federal government already controls the purse strings through the financial control board or Junta that was imposed by Congress,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL). “Puerto Rico can’t borrow funds and they are required to use American shipping only, which is the most expensive in the world. In their hour of need, Washington can help by suspending the Jones Act and suspending cost-sharing obligations. Puerto Rico was closing schools and hospitals and laying off cops before the two hurricanes hit this month, so Washington should go these extra steps.” “The destruction in Puerto Rico is devastating, and we need every tool at our disposal to help recover and rebuild,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY). “These two steps can be taken immediately to help ensure the island receives essential supplies and gets the immediate assistance it needs without dangerous and harmful delays.” “Puerto Rico just faced a deadly Category 4 hurricane, which crumbled their sensitive infrastructure leading to a complete blackout on the island,” said Rep. Darren Soto (D-FL). “It is now essential to get fuel as quickly as possible to keep life sustaining equipment running. Temporarily lifting the Jones Act restrictions will help this cause. In addition, Puerto Rico is in a major state of financial distress. If matching funds are required as a condition for federal emergency relief, many Puerto Ricans will suffer and possibly die. As fellow citizens of the United States, we must stand with Puerto Ricans during this extremely tragic moment.” “This is a critical time of life and death for millions in Puerto Rico and throughout the Caribbean,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). “The efforts to rebuild will be great and we each have a role to play to help these families recover following the aftermath of these catastrophic storms. We have witnessed so much devastation this hurricane season, and the impact has been particularly destructive and reaped havoc– leaving millions of families without shelter, electricity, and their lives in ruins. We all have a part to play in the recovery efforts, and we each must answer that call to provide relief and aid in the immense rebuilding efforts that it will take to assist all who have been affected. We are requesting two regulatory changes to expedite the delivery of essential supplies to Puerto Rico and to provide the necessary relief for the local government to preserve its already limited financial resources during this critical time of need.” “Hurricane Maria decimated the territory of Puerto Rico causing unprecedented devastation,” said Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH). “Puerto Rico and its citizens are now facing a humanitarian and economic crisis that requires immediate action. That is why I joined Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez and other Congressional leaders in sending a letter to the Department of Homeland Security to request a temporary suspension of the Jones Act to ensure that Puerto Rico has access to much-needed supplies, as well as a waiver for federal matching requirements to guarantee that local officials have the necessary resources to provide essential services to the more than three million people who call the Island home.” “Puerto Rico is in a crisis. Congress must act to ensure that the Americans living on the island have the resources and assistance needed to rebuild their homes and communities. These temporary changes will help to ramp up the efforts helping Puerto Ricans recover from the devastating impacts of Hurricane Maria. They are especially needed as reports indicate families are struggling to find adequate shelter, drinking water, and access to health care,” said Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “More must be done, and I stand firmly in support of getting Puerto Rico the federal resources it needs.” Full letter: September 25, 2017 The Honorable Elaine Duke Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Acting Secretary Duke: On September 20th, Puerto Rico endured a direct impact from the worst storm to make landfall on the island in nearly a century. People have lost their homes, entire communities have been displaced and families on the mainland have been unable to establish communication with relatives back home for days. In an island that was already plagued with an acute financial crisis, the destructive passage of Hurricane Maria is another crippling blow to the people and economy that threaten its recovery. Unfortunately, Puerto Rico is without the necessary resources to self-finance its relief and recovery efforts. One area that was damaged severely was the aging power grid. The local government has already predicted that it may take up to six months to turn the lights back on. While that may seem like hyperbole, to many Americans living in the mainland, the Island’s electric grid was already showcasing its vulnerabilities before Hurricane Maria. Last year, technical failures at the Aguirre power plant left one-third of the population without power. In August 2017, inclement weather caused power outages for over 40 thousand people. Just weeks ago, Irma left over 1 million Puerto Ricans without power. A direct hit by a powerful storm was the worst-case scenario for the grid, and Hurricane Maria has now made that scenario a reality. Efforts to get the island back on track will be extremely difficult. We are thankful that the Federal Government has stepped in and has already deployed its existing resources to ensure that Puerto Ricans affected by this horrific natural disaster are fed, clothed and housed. Every agency must act swiftly, in the way that America does when it faces an attack, natural or otherwise, on its own soil. As Members of Congress, we believe it is our responsibility to ensure that the Federal Government promote the economic development of every community across the country. The people of Puerto Rico have long been denied the same benefits provided to other American citizens. Today, the stakes are just too high. To that end, we are requesting two regulatory changes to expedite the delivery of essential supplies to the Island and provide the necessary relief for the local government to preserve its already limited financial resources so that it can provide citizens the essential services they need. Temporary Jones Act Waiver The Marine Merchant Act of 1920, commonly known as the Jones Act, requires that all goods shipped between waterborne ports of the United States be carried by vessels built in the United States and owned and operated by Americans. The island is now facing an unprecedented uphill battle to rebuild its homes, businesses and communities. Temporarily loosening these requirements – for the express purpose of disaster recovery – will allow Puerto Rico to have more access to the oil needed for its power plants, food, medicines, clothing, and building supplies. Therefore, we request the Department of Homeland Security to provide a one-year comprehensive waiver of the Jones Act requirements for Puerto Rico. Waiver of Federal Matching Requirements As you know, federal regulation requires FEMA to enter into cost-sharing agreements for recovery programs. However, Puerto Rico’s current economic conditions have already pushed the local government’s financial resources to the breaking point. Requiring cost-sharing during this critical time could take local resources away from providing the essential services many citizens need. We therefore urge the Department of Homeland Security to provide a waiver for any funding tied to disaster aid, emergency repairs and/or restoration. Hurricane Maria has taken a significant toll on the Island, its infrastructure and its residents. The Federal Government has the duty to ensure these American citizens are provided the relief they need. By granting these temporary waivers, DHS can ensure we are doing everything we can to help American families in need. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the Island’s needs are kept at the forefront of any disaster relief efforts. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Luis V. Gutiérrez José E. Serrano Darren Soto Adriano Espaillat Joyce Beatty Joe Crowley # # #
09.24.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after being appointed Co-Chair to Governor Cuomo’s Empire State Relief & Recovery Effort for Puerto Rico: "I commend Governor Cuomo for the actions he’s taking. On Friday we traveled to Puerto Rico together to assess firsthand the damage from Maria and deliver supplies, personnel and assistance. The launch of this latest effort is another important step that demonstrates New York’s commitment to helping our Puerto Rican brothers and sisters in their time of need. “Puerto Rico was already struggling from financial and economic challenges before Maria made landfall. Now, the Island has been dealt a crushing blow and needs all the assistance it can get. “New York and Puerto Rico are inextricably linked. For New Yorkers, Puerto Ricans are family – for some figuratively and, for many of us, literally. New Yorkers take care of their family and this newest effort will help channel additional help from our state to the Island. “In the darkest of times, we need decisive leadership and the Governor’s efforts exemplify that spirit. This is a catastrophe of historic proportions that will require coordination at all levels of government. I will be advocating federally for additional steps, including swiftly repairing and rebuilding Puerto Rico’s electrical grid, helping small businesses recover and addressing the looming Medicaid cliff. “Puerto Ricans are Americans. They have fought in nearly every major conflict, shedding blood and sacrificing their lives for the rest of us. We cannot and will not turn our backs on them.”
09.20.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in honor of Rosh Hashanah: “As Jewish families in New York City and around the world gather over the coming days, may they find joy and celebration while observing the New Year. Rosh Hashanah is a time for introspection and new beginnings. It is also a time for us, as New Yorkers, to reflect on the invaluable contributions that our Jewish neighbors and community have made to our City and our nation. “To all my friends and neighbors, let me say ‘Shana Tova.’” # # #
09.19.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding Graham-Cassidy, the latest Republican effort in the U.S. Senate to roll back the Affordable Care Act, implement ‘Trumpcare’ and deprive more than 30 million Americans of healthcare: “New Yorkers and the American people have sent a resounding message to Washington – we do not want Trumpcare and we reject efforts to take away the basic protections included in the Affordable Care Act. A recent study found that, under this latest Republican proposal, within ten years, New York would lose $33 million from its healthcare funding. “Several Republican Senators took politically courageous votes in rejecting previous iterations of this abysmal legislation. I encourage them to keep opposing proposals that would so profoundly hurt the working families they purportedly represent. Republican leadership is looking to rush this measure through, without even an analysis by the independent Congressional Budget Office showing how many Americans might lose coverage. “Make no mistake -- the latest version of Trumpcare would end Medicaid as we know it and gut commonsense protections that millions of Americans rely on to ensure they have basic health coverage. The Senate should not vote on this bill but, if they do, and if it should pass, I will do everything in my power in the House to oppose it.” ###
09.18.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, bipartisan Members of Congress, including Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Tom MacArthur (R-NJ), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) and Sean Duffy (R-WI), wrote to the Chairman of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico, requesting details of the Board’s energy reform plan for the Island following the devastation of Hurricane Irma. In the letter, the lawmakers stated, “The Island’s electricity rates are a central element of Puerto Rico’s deep economic crisis and will be a critical driver of its economic recovery. Past and present failures of the Island’s system serve as a stark reminder for the need to dismantle the Commonwealth’s monopoly over its utilities and invest in its aging and inefficient energy systems, which have consistently been a roadblock for economic competitiveness.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter, click here. September 13, 2017 Mr. José B. Carrión III Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Chairman Carrión: We write with great solidarity for the people of Puerto Rico and all the communities terribly affected by Hurricane Irma. Recovery will be difficult and costly. Puerto Rico was skirted – for the most part – from the terrible damages that were forecasted ahead of Irma’s passage. However, the storm did have devastating effects to some municipalities, particularly Culebra. It also exposed vulnerabilities in the Island’s infrastructure and its electric grid. To this end, we are requesting that the Oversight Board provide us with details regarding its energy reform plan for the Island. The Island’s electricity rates are a central element of Puerto Rico’s deep economic crisis and will be a critical driver of its economic recovery. Past and present failures of the Island’s system serve as a stark reminder for the need to dismantle the Commonwealth’s monopoly over its utilities and invest in its aging and inefficient energy systems, which have consistently been a roadblock for economic competitiveness. For businesses and consumers, Puerto Rico’s electric system has consistently been characterized by high prices and unreliability. Last year technical failures at the Aguirre power plant left one-third of the population without power. In August 2017, inclement weather caused power outages for over 40 thousand people. Following Irma, over 1 million Puerto Ricans were left without power. Power outages have detrimental effects to hospitals, senior citizen housing, and more specifically, for anyone that relies on insulin, dialysis, and other medical assistance. Unfortunately, the forecast is far from optimistic as the electric system’s fixed costs are paid for by an increasingly reduced base of customers, leading to higher energy costs which have in turn reduced energy use on the Island. Without question, the path to sustainable economic growth must include additional competition and investments that enable reliable and affordable electricity for business and consumers. As you know, most of the electric infrastructure in Puerto Rico has a median age life of 44 years, whereas the average depreciable service life of a power plant is 40 years. Section 201 of PROMESA explicitly references this need by instructing the Board to: “provide for capital expenditures and investments necessary to promote economic growth.” We are pleased that the Oversight Board decided unanimously to send the Island’s power authority into PROMESA’s Title III bankruptcy process. This decision will for an orderly and just restructuring of the utility’s debts. We commend the newly appointed Revitalization Coordinator of the Board, Noel Zamot, for launching a digital platform for developers and investors to submit infrastructural proposals. We also applaud that Mr. Zamot has designated energy, transportation, water and waste management as immediate priorities. While these are all steps in the right direction, we would like to emphasize the urgency of establishing and implementing a clearly delineated path forward plan as soon as possible. To this point, we would like you to specifically consider that Puerto Rico’s path to recovery requires multiple service providers, infrastructure investments and increased use of renewables to bring reliable and affordable electricity to consumers. The main benefit of the majority of renewable sources is that they do not need fuel to generate electricity, and thus eliminate the variable costs associated with fossil fuels. Puerto Rico’s geographical location and tropical climate make it an ideal candidate to generate power from multiple energy sources. As a result, lower electricity rates for consumers and the business sector could provide an immediate stimulus for the Island’s economy. The money that is freed up could be reinvested in the island. However, in the recently approved Fiscal Plan, the Puerto Rico Power Electric Authority (PREPA) has been instructed to plan for a reduced average target rate of 21 cent/kWh. This target is not nearly enough since it would still be significantly higher than other industrialized island-states and the Caribbean economic region. Hurricane Irma, while tragic beyond measure, provides an opportunity for significant transformation of Puerto Rico’s electrical system. While we can agree that private investment is needed to allow for competition and independent generation of electricity, we must ensure that decisions are carefully constructed so as to prevent a public monopoly of morphing into a private monopoly. We must be clear: Puerto Rico’s energy grid and distributions channels must not be used as a reward for special interests. As such, we request details of your plan to use the authorities under Section 503 of PROMESA to reduce electricity costs for ratepayers prior to its implementation. Please provide us with a complete assessment of all progress to date including your strategy to achieve success no later than October 1, 2017. Thanks for your prompt attention. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Tom MacArthur Member of Congress Member of Congress Raúl Grijalva Sean Duffy Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: Natalie Jaresko, Executive Director, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Andrew G. Biggs, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Carlos M. García, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Arthur J. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico José R. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Ana J. Matosantos, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico David A. Skeel, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Christian Sobrino Vega, Ex-officio Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico
09.15.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today recognizing the start of this year’s Hispanic Heritage Month: “Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to honor the history, culture and achievements of our Latino communities. From starting millions of small businesses, to protecting our freedoms by bravely serving in our Armed Forces, Hispanic Americans touch, shape and contribute to every segment of American life. “While this month provides opportunity to celebrate our progress, it is also when we recommit ourselves to the struggle for justice – and to protecting the gains we have achieved. President Trump and the current Administration have promoted policies aimed at vilifying recent immigrants and Latinos. This rhetoric and these actions are an affront to our American values and we reject them. In that regard, it is imperative that Congress swiftly come together to protect the 800,000 bright young DREAMers who are American in every way except on paper. “This Hispanic Heritage Month let us reflect on the positive role our Latino communities have played in our history, while working together for a better future.” ###
09.13.2017	Measure Introduced Following IrmaWashington, DC – After airline ticket fares skyrocketed before and following Hurricane Irma, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to cap airfares when a disaster has been declared. Under Velázquez’s bill, the “AirFAIR Act”, when a state, territory or U.S. possession makes a disaster declaration, airlines would be prohibited from making price hikes exceeding 30%. Furthermore, the Department of Transportation would have authority to further reduce the maximum allowed price increase during catastrophes. “There may well be price fluctuations related to changes in market conditions, but allowing a 30% increase in pricing should provide more than enough flexibility to address these changes,” Velázquez said. “What is unacceptable is seeing ticket prices increase six-fold when residents are trying to flee the path of a hurricane.” As the nation contends with the aftermaths of Harvey and Irma and prepares for Hurricane Jose, there have been multiple reports of airlines drastically increasing prices. Some consumers noted price increases from $547 to over $3200. Other travelers posted on social media fares of $1,738 for flights between Miami and Indianapolis and a $2,370 flight between Miami and Los Angeles. Airlines have contended that they did not change their pricing structure and that price changes are dictated by computer algorithms on the companies’ booking websites. “Whether these drastic price increases are examples of intentional price gouging or an unwillingness to examine how the airlines’ computer systems function, doesn’t really matter,” Velázquez noted. “If tickets get too unaffordable, people who might otherwise have fled a disaster may stay, creating a danger to human life. This bill will require the airlines to take reasonable, responsible steps to check price increases.” A Democrat from New York, Velázquez is the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress. Last week she wrote to the Department of Energy asking for the agency to assist in repairing Puerto Rico’s vulnerable energy infrastructure following Hurricane Irma. # # #
09.11.2017	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives has passed an amendment authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to increase funding for investment in public housing infrastructure. Her amendment, which was added to the “omnibus spending bill”, would add $2 million to the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Public Housing Capital Fund. “I often say that when we are talking about housing rights, we are discussing human rights,” said Velázquez. “After decades of disinvestment, my amendment will allocate additional funding for needed repairs and upgrades in public housing developments.” Years of neglect and underfunding have shrunk the nation’s affordable housing stock, significantly. Nationally, 200,000 units of public housing have been lost since 2010 and 10,000 units are at risk of being lost each year unless critical funding gaps are filled. In addition, public housing continues to deteriorate due to insufficient funds. “These shortfalls have a direct effect on residents’ health and quality of life,” Velázquez noted. “Deferred maintenance means children suffer respiratory problems due to mold. Lack of funds and delayed repairs can lead to seniors suffering from drafts and leaky windows. They mean elevators that do not work and unsafe hallways that are not lit. But these are problems we can fix. In fact, we have an obligation to fix them.” Velázquez’s amendment was adopted to the larger funding bill with bipartisan support. The omnibus package is expected to pass the House this week, after which it will be sent to the Senate for consideration. “This is a modest funding increase and, to be candid, much more must be done,” Velázquez added. “However, the passage of my amendment is a start and I will continue advocating for additional investment in our nation’s public housing infrastructure.” # # #
09.11.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the anniversary of 9/11: “All New Yorkers will always remember the terrible attacks of 9/11, the neighbors we lost and our brave first responders who risked their lives and, in many cases, sacrificed their health to protect the rest of us. Sixteen years after that dark day, we must remain committed to caring for one another in good times as well as bad. During the attacks we saw New Yorkers and Americans at their best –courageous, compassionate and united in the face of unspeakable evil. Let us all work to ensure we carry those values forward, not only on this solemn anniversary, but also every day.” # # #
09.08.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) will host a “DACA Know Your Rights Town Hall” in Brooklyn on Sunday. The purpose of this gathering is to connect the community with policy and legal experts to discuss the changes to the program, and the DACA RENEWAL process. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) Local Immigration Experts WHAT: DACA Know Your Rights Town Hall WHEN: Sunday, September 10th at 2 p.m. WHERE: St. Joseph Church 185 Suydam Street Bushwick (off Wilson and Central Avenue ) “I will be working in Congress to push for a clean, up-or-down vote on legislation to codify DACA and protect our DREAMers,” Velázquez noted. “In the meantime New Yorkers need to know how the President’s decision might affect them. This event will connect members of the community with resources they need to fully understand their rights.” Members of the media are encouraged to cover the event. # # #
09.08.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote the U.S. Department of Energy, requesting that the agency assist Puerto Rico as the Island addresses power outages following Hurricane Irma. In her letter, Velázquez asks that the Department partner with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to help Puerto Rico’s energy infrastructure recover. “Puerto Rico faces unique challenges given its financial condition and the state of its infrastructure,” her letter states. “Its energy grid has faced years of neglect and is acutely vulnerable to damage from a natural disaster.” The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. September 8, 2017 The Honorable Rick Perry U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave SW Washington, DC 20585 Dear Secretary Perry: As you know Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands experienced significant impact from Hurricane Irma. Categorized as a Hurricane 5 on the Saffir-Sampson hurricane wind scale, with winds up to 185 mph, Hurricane Irma is one of the strongest hurricanes recorded in the Atlantic basin. The Federal Government must ensure that it is helping our fellow citizens swiftly recover from harm resulting from the storm. Puerto Rico faces unique challenges given its financial condition and the state of its infrastructure. Its energy grid has faced years of neglect and is acutely vulnerable to damage from a natural disaster. Just last year, technical failures at the Aguirre power plant left one-third of the population without power. In August 2017 alone, inclement weather caused power outages for over 40 thousand people. It is reported that, following Irma, over 1 million Puerto Ricans are currently without power. While it is too early to fully assess when electrical service will be fully restored, ahead of the storm, the Executive Director for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA), Ricardo Ramos Rodríguez, indicated that the Island could potentially face up to four to six months without power. The Department you lead can play a crucial role in helping Puerto Rico’s energy infrastructure recover. In that regard, I ask that the U.S. Department of Energy: 1. Expeditiously mobilize existing resources and experts to provide Puerto Rico with an accurate assessment of damages and an energy emergency response center; 2. Provide Puerto Rico the technical assistance they need to address service disruptions and ensure that power outages do not further constrain the Island’s capacity to recover; 3. Partner with the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) through either a specialized taskforce, a Memorandum of Understanding, or other appropriate mechanisms to ensure that Puerto Rico’s electrical infrastructure is back up and running as quickly as possible. I thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact me directly or my staff at 202-225-2361 with any questions. I look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress cc: William B. “Brock” Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C St SW Washington, DC 20024 # # #
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement opposing the Trump Administration’s decision to roll back Deferred Actions for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): “The President previously said that Dreamers have little reason to worry because he has a ‘big heart.’ Today’s decision belies that statement and makes clear the callous and hateful ideology that is driving this Administration’s policies. “800,000 young Americans now face the threat of deportation. And, yes, these are Americans. Many of them have known no other home. Some of them speak only English and many came here when they were so young that they cannot even remember the journey. Their parents brought them here in search of a better life, seeking that simple, but uniquely American compact – the promise that America is the land of opportunity, where anyone with a dream and the right talent and perseverance can succeed. Today, Donald Trump has turned his back on that proud tradition. “Not only is this decision a moral affront, but this policy, if it takes effect, will cause billions of dollars of economic damage. It is telling that business leaders from a range of sectors have united in opposition DACA’s rescission. “Where the President has failed to show moral leadership, Congress must step forward. In coming weeks, I will be working with my Democratic colleagues to push the Republican Leadership to allow for an up-or-down vote on a clean ‘DREAM Act’, so these young people – the face of America – are protected.” # # #
08.28.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding racist graffiti that was found at Beth Hachasidim DePolen Synagogue and on an Upper West Side Methodist church: “Acts of hate have no place anywhere in our society and we must always be unified in condemning them. Given recent national events it is more important than ever that we stand united in sending a clear message that there is no room for hate in our City. I urge the New York Police Department to swiftly investigate these appalling crimes. “It is precisely because of acts like these that I authored the ‘Hate Crimes Victim Assistance Act,’ legislation that would authorize an additional $50 million in federal funds to help prevent, track and prosecute hate crimes and assist victims. I will continue working at the federal level on legislation to combat bigotry wherever it rears its ugly head.” ###
08.21.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spearheaded a letter to the Bureau of Prisons today asking for answers regarding the agency’s policies and data collection pertaining to sexual assault in correctional institutions. Her letter, which was signed by 12 other lawmakers, follows a recent New York Times story exposing a history of sexual abuse by guards at Metropolitan Detention Center, which is located in Brooklyn and the Congresswoman’s district. “The reported sexual assault incidents at Metropolitan Detention Center raise questions not only about how that facility is run, but about what safeguards the Bureau of Prisons has in place to prevent sexual assault,” Velázquez said. “We need a better sense of what led to the abuses at MDC, whether these problems are widespread throughout the federal prison system and whether these crimes are underreported.” A .pdf of the letter is found online here and the full text is below. August 21, 2017 Thomas R. Kane Acting Director Federal Bureau of Prisons 320 First St., NW Washington, DC 20534 Dear Dr. Kane: We write to you today with grave concern over reports of sexual assault at the Metropolitan Detention Center. Recently, the New York Times reported that three officers were arrested on charges of sexually assaulting at least six inmates. The article describes conditions in which inmates are preyed upon during late night cleaning shifts. Despite apparent protocols against it, these female inmates are routinely supervised by just one male officer. Indeed the report states that an entire female dormitory was sometimes supervised by only a single male correctional officer, who was in turn sometimes supervised by a male lieutenant. The article and court documents also suggest that officers may be exchanging food for sexual acts. We are extraordinarily concerned with these reports. Inmates should not fear sexual assault either by other inmates or the correctional officers there to supervise them. Indeed, these officers wield extraordinary power over the fate of inmates. It is a federal crime for an officer to have sexual relations with an inmate because of this power imbalance and the inherent coercion it creates. Perhaps most disturbing is the discrepancy between the charges by Brooklyn U.S. Attorneys and what the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) statistics report. MDC was audited for their compliance with the Prison Rape Elimination Act on June 6-8, 2017, one month after the indictments of the three officers for their alleged sexual misconduct. MDC passed this audit with flying colors, meeting all 42 applicable standards. Additionally, a June report by the BOP stated that in 2016 there were only three substantiated cases of “staff-on-inmate” sexual misconduct across all its jails and prisons. At MDC, which houses only one percent of the bureau’s inmates, officers have been charged with at least double that number of incidents in 2016. Moreover, according to the most recent data from the Bureau of Justice statistics, in 2011-2012 an estimated 4 percent of state and federal prison inmates and 3.2 percent of jail inmates reported experiencing one or more incidents of sexual victimization by another inmate or facility staff. This statistic suggests the rate of sexual assault in much higher than what BOP has reported. Given these discrepancies, we are extremely concerned that sexual misconduct may be underreported and undercounted in federal prisons. As such, please respond to the following questions by September 15, 2017. 1. How do you define “substantiated cases” of sexual misconduct? Does this standard require a conviction? 2. How are allegations of sexual misconduct handled? How do you follow up on reports by inmates? Is every allegation investigated and reported? Who conducts these investigations? 3. BOP has a stated zero tolerance policy regarding sexual misconduct. Yet, two of the officers at MDC charged had prior allegations of sexual misconduct. Could you please describe in detail the terms of your “zero tolerance” policy as well as protocols for the investigation of allegations? Is a criminal conviction required or are there internal investigations? Who conducts the investigations, whether criminal or otherwise? 4. How can inmates report instances of sexual assault? Who can they report it to? In the current charges, it was both corrections officers and lieutenants who were involved in the assaults. Do inmates have access to individuals outside of or higher up in the chain of command? 5. Do you have data on the number of reported instances of sexual misconduct in prisons? If so, please provide a detailed breakdown for the last five years showing the number of allegations and how the incident was concluded. 6. You stated that “the general practice of the Bureau of Prisons is to have at least one male and one female staff on each shift at correctional institutions housing both male and female inmates.” Yet, this practice was clearly not adhered to at MDC. How did MDC meet all standards in the audit while clearly not following this guidance? What is COP doing to ensure MDC, and other prisons, adhere to this practice? 7. Clearly, MDC has a serious problem with sexual misconduct. What practices contributed to this problem? What changes are needed? What is MDC doing to ensure these incidents do not continue? 8. Are officers given training to identify sexual misconduct by other officers and do they have a confidential means of reporting it either within the prison or to BOP? What protections do staff that report have against retaliation? 9. We have heard anecdotal reports that, rather than facing criminal charges, correctional officers have instead simply been removed from their positions or forced into early retirement. To that end, how many correctional officers have been fired or encouraged to retire as a result of sexual contact with inmates in each of the past five years? 10. Have there been past allegations of sexual misconduct by either of the two lieutenants (Eugenio Perez and Carlos Richard Martinez) recently indicted? What were the years of those allegations? What were the allegations and what did the investigations yield? 11. Have you learned of any instances of retaliation or threats against inmates for reporting sexual contact between them and a guard? What occurred in those instances? What policies do you have in place to prevent such retaliation? Sexual violence has no place in our society, whether it is our military, schools, or prisons. In general, sexual assault incidents are underreported and poorly counted. Reasons victims give for not reporting include fear of retaliation and a lack of confidence that the police or criminal justice system would or could do anything to help. One can imagine that for inmates these fears could be even stronger. Inmates deserve to fulfill their sentence in an environment free from sexual violence. Officers tasked with supervising inmates should help to ensure the safety of our prisons, not perpetrate criminal violence themselves. We are extremely concerned that actual incidents of sexual misconduct in federal prisons may be far greater than reported numbers. In order to ensure the safety of our prisons, it is critical that we shine a light on sexual misconduct and accurately count all incidents. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ###
08.18.2017	Washington, DC – Through the annual appropriations process, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has secured language directing the Department of Education, to work closely with Puerto Rico to identify and address technical assistance needs. This crucial step will enhance the federal government’s role in assisting the people of Puerto Rico. Velázquez was instrumental in urging the Department of Education to provide technical assistance to Puerto Rico during this year’s appropriations process. “For too long, the people of Puerto Rico have been denied the same federal resources as those living stateside,” said Velázquez. “There is much that we must do as federal lawmakers to ensure that American citizens in Puerto Rico have all the necessary tools to spur economic growth.” In the annual report for the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Appropriations, Velázquez secured language directing the Department of Education, to work closely with Puerto Rico to identify and address technical assistance needs. Such support includes improving understanding of the federal contracting process, grants management, budgeting and budget impact analysis, and harnessing government data. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman José Serrano (D-NY) also played an instrumental role in urging other federal agencies to assist Puerto Rico. Velázquez praised his efforts. “I commend Congressman Serrano for taking these steps to help ensure Puerto Ricans are treated fairly by the federal government,” said Velázquez. “I’m now calling on members from both sides of the aisle to see the report language is fulfilled.” ###
08.17.2017	Bill Dedicates Additional $50 Million to Tackle Bias-Based AttacksWashington, DC – Following the violent rally by white supremacists in Charlottesville this weekend, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored new legislation that would dedicate additional federal resources to combat the growing prevalence of hate crimes around the country. The “Hate Crimes Victim Assistance Act,” would authorize an additional $50 million in federal funds to help prevent, track and prosecute hate crimes and assist victims. “Bigotry and hate have no place in our society, but, sadly, Charlottesville provided a stark reminder that our nation has not yet buried the shameful ghosts of our past,” Velázquez said. “In light of this weekend’s events, Congress must be proactive in addressing the proliferation of hate crimes. This measure would take tangible steps to do so.” Recent data has exhibited a marked increase in hate crimes. One analysis found a 20% increase in hate crimes in nine metropolitan areas last year in conjunction with the 2016 election. According to the study, New York reported the greatest number of hate crimes at 380, a 24 percent increase over 2015. Another, more recent analysis saw 900 bias-based incidents nationally in just the 10 days following Donald Trump’s election to President. The Anti-Defamation League recently reported that anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. jumped 86 percent in the first quarter of 2017, compared to same period last year. “Donald Trump’s irresponsible campaign rhetoric and, more recently his immoral inability to fully condemn racist marchers in Charlottesville serve to fuel abhorrent actions,” Velázquez noted. “Where the President fails to show leadership, Congress must step up and tackle these problems head on. This bill will start that process.” Among other provisions, Velázquez’s bill provides $15 million in federal resources to bolster local law enforcement hate crime training. Funds under this program are allocated to solve hate crimes and facilitate discussion with community stakeholders whose members are at risk of being victims. Grants would be targeted to jurisdictions that have high levels of hate crime activity. The program also encourages community policing and diverse recruitment of police officers. “Our local police departments deserve tangible support in their efforts to take on violent bigots and thugs,” Velázquez noted. “With this bill we’d create a dedicated source of federal funding that would go to those cities and states where these crimes have been most prevalent.” To facilitate the reporting of hate crimes, Velázquez’s measure would provide another $20 million for hate crime hotlines and websites, which would be operated by states or local governments in collaboration with community stakeholders. Hotline operators could also work with other local health and legal programs. Under the bill, hotlines would be manned around the clock, and callers could not be asked about their immigration status. “Victims of hate acts need an easy channel for reporting these crimes to authorities,” Velázquez noted. “By partnering with community groups and local law enforcement, we can create mechanisms where victims can safely and securely report what has happened. Not only will this assist in prosecution, but it will also serve as a further deterrent against future attacks.” The Act also allocates $15 million for victims’ assistance through the Office for Victims of Crime in the Department Office of Justice. These funds would help nonprofits and faith-based organizations expand or create local programs that help those who have been harmed through hate crimes. “We have to work at all levels of government to prevent hate crimes, swiftly prosecute those that occur, and show meaningful support and compassion for victims,” Velázquez added. “I’m profoundly saddened that our national discourse has emboldened white supremacists and extremists. This bill will put additional resources toward battling the harmful effects of hatred and bigotry, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in pushing this measure forward.” Velázquez announced the bill Wednesday and said the legislation would be officially introduced in September when the House of Representatives reconvenes. # # #
08.16.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding reports of racist vandalism in Cypress Hills Cemetery: “That anyone would desecrate graves is beyond reprehensible. The fact that this vandalism was biased-base makes this crime even more outrageous. “Acts of hate never have any place in our city or our nation. However, coming so closely after the events of Charlottesville, these crimes are particularly painful and disturbing. All of us must speak with one voice in condemning bigotry of any kind. “I encourage the NYPD to swiftly pursue the perpetrators and ask any member of the community with knowledge of these events to contact the police tip line.” ###
08.14.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced federal grant funding to expand dental care for patients living with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). These grants, sponsored by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) were awarded to two local Brooklyn health centers, NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull and Wyckoff Heights Medical Center. “A patient’s access to quality health care should never be determined by financial status,” said Velázquez. “I am proud that these grants will help further the tireless work of the doctors, nurses and staff who serve New Yorkers living with HIV.” The funding stems from an HHS initiative called the Dental Reimbursement Program (DRP). Started in 1994, DRP offers dental or dental hygiene education services to HIV positive patients. Founded with the goal of improving health outcomes for HIV patients in low-income and traditionally underserved communities, the grant exists to reimburse dental care costs. NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull serves residents of North Brooklyn, including the neighborhoods of Bushwick and Williamsburg. The facility will be receiving $86,992 in federal grant funding from HHS. Known for a history of forging strong community partnerships, NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull has been serving residents in the area for over thirty years. Wyckoff Heights Medical Center is a teaching hospital with a dedicated staff of over 1,800 who provide services for patients in thirty-five languages. Located on the border of North Brooklyn and Western Queens, Wyckoff Heights Medical Center is committed to training the next generation of medical professionals. The Center will be receiving $18,749 in HHS grant funding. “At a time of devastating cuts to health care services for many of our most vulnerable, it is imperative that grants like the Dental Reimbursement Program continue to support local hospitals,” said Velázquez. “We must stand firm to protect community health centers and facilities for all New Yorkers.” ###
08.13.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding events in Charlottesville: “When President Trump refuses to identify those responsible for the horrors in Charlottesville - namely white supremacists - he emboldens them. All of us must stand together in condemning bigotry and violence without hesitation or equivocation. “The Charlottesville events remind us that our nation has yet a distance to travel before burying the shameful ghosts of our past and fully achieving our cherished ideals of equality and liberty for all. However, such tragedies also stiffen our resolve. I believe Americans of all backgrounds will respond by recommitting themselves to the struggle for justice.”
08.10.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. Jenniffer González-Colon, the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico, have written the head of the Small Business Administration (SBA) expressing the need to expand contracting opportunities for small businesses in Puerto Rico. Amidst the turmoil of bankruptcy, the letter urges SBA to help small firms operating there to participate in the federal marketplace. “Federal procurement policy can be a powerful force in igniting economic opportunity in Puerto Rico,” said Velázquez. “It is time for Congress to work with SBA to meet the needs of small businesses on the Island, creating good paying jobs for Puerto Rico’s residents.” The United States’ government serves as the largest standalone purchaser of goods in the world and awards nearly $500 billion in contracts every year. Unfortunately, Puerto Rico ranks last in terms of the dollar value of federal contracts granted compared to U.S. states. “When it comes to securing federal contracts, the deck is already stacked against small business owners in Puerto Rico,” said Velázquez. “If we do not help small firms secure opportunities to gain relevant experience, they simply will not be completive to bid on future federal contracts.” “Small businesses are the island’s engine of economic growth, which makes it vital for SBA to assist and be the connection for our merchants to have access to direct federal contracts. During her visit to the island, I accompanied Administrator McMahon to meetings with merchants from different business segments in our economy and they all agreed on how difficult and almost inaccessible can the competitive process be for them to bid for federal contracts in Puerto Rico, when many of them are announced and awarded directly from the nation’s capital. A federal procurement center in Puerto Rico would allow faster direct access to federal agency contracts,” said Congresswoman Jenniffer González-Colón (R-PR). The letter also urges the SBA to take steps to expand SBA procurement center representatives as well as ongoing workshops and mentorship initiatives. “The fact that over half of children on the Island live in poverty is unacceptable,” said Velázquez. “As part of a strategic and long-term recovery effort, it is imperative that SBA expands their investment in Puerto Rico’s businesses.” The letter is available online here. # # #
08.09.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the resignation of New York State Senator Daniel Squadron: “Since his election in 2008, Daniel Squadron has been a stalwart champion of residents of Brooklyn and the Lower East Side, working tirelessly to improve New Yorkers’ lives. “I’ve been honored to partner with him on countless efforts benefitting our shared constituents, including, among many others, bringing shore power to the Red Hook Cruise Terminal, delivering badly needed repairs and upgrades to our transit infrastructure, enhancing Brooklyn Bridge Park, helping the city recover after Sandy, advocating for quality affordable housing and generating greater economic opportunity. Throughout it all, Daniel has been a trusted partner and good friend. “While he will be missed in the New York State Senate, I know he’ll continue the fight elsewhere as a strong progressive voice. I thank him for his service and wish him all the best as he embarks on new challenges.” ###
08.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released a report titled, “A Discussion on the Future of Puerto Rico’s Economy.” The report compiles testimony from a range of experts who participated in a bipartisan roundtable discussion the Congresswoman hosted in July. “It has now been a year since PROMESA was signed into law, granting Puerto Rico much needed authority to restructure its debt in a fair and orderly fashion,” Velázquez said. “While empowering Puerto Rico to get out from under its mountain of debt is a good first step, we cannot afford to stop there. Rather, we must focus on finding sustainable strategies the island can employ to help restore its economy to prosperity. It is my hope that our roundtable and the report will help propel that conversation forward, identifying workable solutions that all stakeholders can coalesce around.” The report includes analysis by representatives from the American Enterprise Institute; the Center for a New Economy; Hunter College’s Puerto Rico Studies Department; the Puerto Rico Statistics Institute; the University of Puerto Rico and Baruch College in New York. The full report may be downloaded here. ###
08.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico will examine the issuance of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations: “I commend the Board for taking the important step of investigating the disclosure and selling practices on all the underlying transactions of Puerto Rico’s debt. This is the type of inquiry that I wanted to occur when PROMESA was enacted. To this end, Puerto Rico deserves a transparent and just restructuring process.” ###
08.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) asking for information on lead-based paint in the agency’s housing developments. The letter follows up on an inquiry the Congresswoman sent in July of last year. Since then, it has been publicly reported that NYCHA is not in compliance with federal and local lead-based paint rules. “While NYCHA has previously said there’s low risk of contamination from lead, we’ve since heard other troubling facts causing us to question the safety of many of these units,” noted Velázquez. “NYCHA needs to make clear what they are doing to ensure residents’ health.” The text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below and a .pdf is online here. July 31, 2017 Shola Olatoye Chair, New York City Housing Authority 250 Broadway New York, NY 10007 Dear Chair Olatoye: I was deeply troubled by your admission on Wednesday July 26, to your fellow New York City Housing Authority (“NYCHA”) board members that NYCHA is not in compliance with federal and local lead-based paint rules. I was further dismayed when I read a series of articles published by the New York Daily News on Thursday, July 27, and Saturday, July 29, that reported NYCHA had falsely certified inspections of thousands of its apartments for lead-based paint between 2012 and 2014. As you recall, in July 2016, I wrote to you expressing my concern about the potential presence of lead-based paint in NYCHA units after a series of investigative articles were published by the New York Daily News. You responded to my letter in October 2016, stating: “[a]ccording to the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (“DOHMH”), children living in NYCHA public housing have an extremely low-risk (emphasis not added) of exposure to lead-based paint hazards, even lower than children living in privately-owned housing in New York City.” Given the latest developments, I am respectfully requesting you provide me with an update to your letter of October 19th within the next thirty days (30) along with answers to the following set of questions set forth below. Lead poisoning is a serious and sometimes fatal condition, and exposure to lead-based paint can cause nerve, blood, and brain damage—particularly in children, pregnant women, and the elderly. The problem of lead poisoning from lead-based paint occurs when the original primer—which is beneath the surface of the paint—on household components, like radiators, door frames, pipes, and ceramic fixtures, chips or turns to dust. When this original layer chips or turns to dust it can be inhaled or ingested. Children under the age of three are particularly susceptible to the poisonous toxin, as they tend to crawl around on the floor easily ingesting the dust and chips. Due to the serious and sometimes fatal effects of lead, the use of lead-based paint in residential housing has been banned in New York City since 1960 and across the entire United States since 1978. Unfortunately, many of NYCHA’s apartment buildings were constructed prior to these bans, and, therefore, have a potential presence of lead-based paint. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) provides funding to NYCHA for the provision and maintenance of public housing in New York City. Federal regulations require NYCHA to maintain public housing so that it is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. NYCHA must also comply with all federal requirements regarding lead and lead-based paint in public housing. By law, NYCHA is required to perform annual inspections of units for lead-based paint hazards. HUD regulations require NYCHA to incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities into its regular building operations. Additionally, New York City Local Law 1 requires owners of pre-1960 buildings that have three or more units, as well as owners of post-1960 to pre-1978 buildings where the owner knows that there is lead-based paint, to investigate units where children under the age of six reside to find peeling paint, chewable surfaces, deteriorated sub-surfaces, and friction and impact surfaces. Local Law 1 requires these investigations to be conducted on an annual basis. NYCHA is also required, by law, to correct lead-based paint hazards and to abate lead-based paint from friction and impact surfaces when units are turned over. According to information you provided in your letter of October 19th, you stated there were 103 buildings totaling 54,518 units throughout NYCHA’s portfolio potentially containing lead-based paint. You also stated that 4,702 of these 54,518 units were home to a child under the age of six. To fully understand the scope of the problem, I am respectfully requesting an update to all of these figures, along with the following pieces of information: 1) A full list identifying the NYCHA developments with a potential presence of lead-based paint and the number of units within each development with a potential presence of lead-based paint. 2) The list of units identifying where NYCHA fully remediated lead-based paint due to unit turnover in the last year (since July 14, 2016). 3) In your letter of October 19th you stated that NYCHA had recently reviewed the 4,702 units that were home to a child under the age of six that that potentially contained lead-based paint. Of these 4,702 units you indicated that 2,350 units had deteriorating paint conditions on components. And while you stated that NYCHA did not perform additional testing to confirm the presence of lead-based paint in the units, NYCHA did move swiftly to perform paint stabilization on the components. What steps has NYCHA taken, or is the agency taking, to ensure the paint stabilization efforts in these 2,350 units remain intact? 4) On June 18, 2016, you and DOHMH Commissioner, Dr. Mary Bassett, published a Letter to the Editor in the New York Daily News outlining the steps the City of New York takes to identify lead paint hazards. In light of your recent admission to your fellow NYCHA board members on July 26, what additional steps is NYCHA taking to bring itself into compliance with all federal, state, and local lead-based paint rules? 5) I understand there are ongoing investigations being conducted by both the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the New York City Department of Investigation regarding lead in NYCHA buildings. Please provide me details on the steps NYCHA is taking to cooperate with both of these investigations. When it comes to public housing, there is no greater priority than protecting the health and safety of our friends, families, and neighbors. The existence of lead-based paint is a potentially dangerous problem and I appreciate NYCHA’s effort and willingness to take this matter seriously. Thank you in advance for your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Cc: Lynne Patton, Regional Administrator, New York/New Jersey Region, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Mary Travis Bassett, Commissioner, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Mark Peters, Commissioner, New York City Department of Investigations ###
07.28.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is partnering with local community leaders and representatives from the New York Police Department (NYPD) and the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office to host a workshop regarding “underground loan” scams that are prevalent in New York’s Chinese American community. The event comes after the recent collapse of a “Biao Hui” or underground lending club in New York. Losses totaled more than $20 million for an estimated 780 investors, marking it one of the largest such losses in recent memory. The event will provide educational information on avoiding these scams and on legitimate, stable investment products that are available in the community. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez John Chan, Asian American Community Empowerment Emmanuel Gonzalez, NYPD, 72nd Precinct Kin Ng, Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Joseph Lin, Asian Americans for Equality Kai Cai, JP Morgan Chase WHAT: Workshop on Financial Practices and Avoiding Biao Hui Scams WHEN: Monday, July 31st, 1:00 p.m. WHERE: 618 62nd Street ​Sunset Park, Brooklyn, NY 星期一: 維樂貴絲將舉辦避免標會詐騙的講座 華盛頓特區–紐約區國會議員維樂貴絲與當地社區領導人和紐約警察局和布魯克林DA辦公室的代表將舉辦一個與紐約華裔社區相關的“地下貸款詐騙”的講座。標會在紐約的華人社區普遍存在。 這次活動是為了最近在紐約發生的“倒會”或地下借貸組織瓦解事件而設的。此次倒會估計約有780名投資者，其損失超過總額2000萬美元。這是近期記錄中最大的損失之一。 該活動將提供有關避免這些詐騙和社區中合法可用及穩定的投資教育信息。 參與者： 國會議員 維樂貴絲 美國亞裔社團聯合總會 陳善莊 紐約警察局第72分局 Emmanuel Gonzalez 布魯克林地區檢察官辦公室 吳建宏 亞洲人平等會 林凱翔 摩根大通銀行 Kai Cai 內容：有關資金運作和防止標會詐騙的講座 時間：7月31日(星期一)，下午1点 地點：紐約布魯克林日落公園62街618號 ###
07.27.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in response to the House’s passage of the misguided and harmful “Make America Secure Act”, which allocates $1.6 billion in taxpayer funds for the building of a wall along the U.S. and Mexico border. “Since our nation’s inception, it has been shaped and defined by immigration. Our nation was built with the blood, sweat and tears of immigrants. But today, sadly, House Republicans passed a measure that flies in the face of that history. “To be clear, this wall will not make us safer. But it does serve as symbol of the President’s hateful, anti-immigrant rhetoric – like the language he used just this week in talking about ‘innocent, beautiful’ girls being – and I quote – ‘sliced and diced’, presumably by immigrants. “That is the cynical politics of bigotry and fear – and it is the real motivation for this wall. But this funding is not just an affront to our national values. This wall is bad policy, ineffective -- and a waste of taxpayer dollars. Remember when candidate Trump promised that Mexico would ‘pay’ for his wall? It didn’t take long for the Mexican government to expose that broken promise. “This shameful bill includes 1.6 billion dollars to fund Mr. Trump’s boondoggle. That’s $1.6 billion that could go toward real, lasting job creation – or hiring more teachers – or fixing crumbling roads and bridges. But, instead, Mr. Trump needs to fuel the politics of fear – and what better way to do so than at the taxpayer expense? We are better than this than this bigoted and wasteful proposal and I will continue to oppose its enactment.” ###
07.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced that multiple local early education centers within New York’s 7th Congressional district have received multi-million dollar grants to boost their Head Start programs. The Head Start Program is a federal initiative of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) which provides comprehensive early childhood education, health, and nutrition services to low-income children and their families. “Studies consistently show that when children receive the educational, emotional and nutritional support they need early on, they succeed later in life,” said Velázquez. “Each of these educational institutions serve as community anchors that provide vital services to our working families.” Located on the Lower East Side, Grand Street Settlement has over 60 years of experience in early care and education. By providing family support services in English, Spanish and Chinese, the staff at Grand Street Settlement develop a strong bond with local parents and families. HHS has awarded Grand Street Settlement with $1,832,363 in federal funds to continue their outreach and service to area families. An additional grant has been awarded to United Academy in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The Academy will receive $2,221,379 in federal funds from HHS. The funding will ensure the organization can continue making important health and educational programs available to Williamsburg’s children. Also located in Williamsburg, Yeshiva Kehilath Yakove is a Jewish learning center and will be receiving $1,072,409 to continue to grow their Head Start program. Educational Alliance located on the Lower East Side will be receiving $2,283,083 for their Head Start program. A progressive early learning center, Educational Alliance actively works to meet the needs of working families. The Catholic Charities Neighborhood Service has been awarded $5,938,043 to continue to provide high-quality educational services to local children in Brooklyn. Harnessing the Montessori holistic approach to early learning, their program features hands-on age appropriate opportunities for children from birth to age seven. The center also provides Montessori training to their early childhood staff. “For many busy working families, locating affordable, quality educational resources can be challenging,” said Velázquez. “Programs like Head Start address the most basic and important needs of a child. At a time when such programs are threatened with cuts, I will continue to advocate for these children and their families. It is our duty to ensure that our children have equal access to a fair and nurturing early education.” ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) urged the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) to consider adding additional entrance points to Brooklyn Bridge Park. In the wake of public support to increase park access, Velázquez wrote to Commissioner Polly Trottenberg stressing the importance of maximizing public access to the Park’s fields, facilities and public events. Over 330,000 visitors pass through the park each week. “For native New Yorkers and visitors alike, Brooklyn Bridge Park is a space for recreation, events and relaxation,” said Velázquez. “In order to meet such high demand, I’m urging NYCDOT to consider the creation of additional entrances. I strongly believe that by making access to the park easier, we can fully maximize our public spaces.” In 2008, Velázquez secured funding for a Brooklyn Bridge Park transportation access study. The study resulted in several lasting improvements, however a handful of these recommendations have yet to be implemented. As NYCDOT embarks on rehabilitating the Brooklyn Queens Expressway (BQE), Velázquez urged the timeliness of simultaneously incorporating additional park entrances into rebuilding plans. The text of the letter is below. July 21, 2017 Polly Trottenberg Commissioner NYC Department of Transportation 55 Water Street, 9th Floor New York, NY 10041 Dear Commissioner Trottenberg: I am writing to urge full and fair consideration to add additional entrance points to Brooklyn Bridge Park. It is my understanding that a petition with over 1,000 signatories was recently submitted regarding an additional access point from Brooklyn Heights to Brooklyn Bridge Park at or near Montague Street. I encourage your consideration of this project as you undertake the engineering assessment of the Brooklyn Queens Expressway (BQE) triple cantilever. Brooklyn Bridge Park’s facilities, fields, and public events attract visitors from all over the city and the world. In fact, over 330,000 visitors pass through the park each week. It is my understanding that this influx of visitors, coupled with a lack of park entrances, has proven challenging for residents living near current access points. An entrance on Montague Street would both disperse the park visitors and create more foot-traffic for businesses located along that corridor. In fact, the potential addition of new entrance points to Brooklyn Bridge Park has already been studied. Over ten years ago, I secured funding for a Brooklyn Bridge Park transportation access study. In 2008 this study yielded many good ideas for improving park access, some of which have been implemented during construction of the park, and others of which are yet to be realized. The study, funded through the US Department of Transportation, was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of traffic engineers, transportation planners, and architects directed by Sam Schwartz PLLC on behalf of the Downtown Brooklyn Waterfront Local Development Corporation. The study yielded seven potential short-term and long-term transportation initiatives to improve access to Brooklyn Bridge Park without the use of private automobiles. Four measures have since been implemented and others are still on the drawing board. One of these measures includes a “Vertical Pedestrian Connection” - a structure to connect the Promenade with the Park. A series of ramps and stairs that connect the Promenade at Remsen Street or Montague Street to a 35-foot berm in the Park was conceptually developed to create a mid-Park entrance from Brooklyn Heights that does not affect the scenic view plane and is Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)-compliant. However, based upon the New York State Department of Transportation’s (NYS DOT) plan to study the potential reconstruction of the BQE triple cantilever, this vertical connection proposal was put on hold. Given the recent BQE rehabilitation study, now is a perfect time to consider anew ways to incorporate additional park entrance points into rebuilding plans. To benefit the local community and the public at large, I strongly encourage your team to consider the creation of an additional Brooklyn Bridge Park entrance as you undertake plans for the BQE rehabilitation. Thank you for your consideration on this matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velazquez Member of Congress cc: Bill de Blasio, Mayor, City of New York Alicia Glen, Deputy Mayor, City of New York Joannene Kidder, Executive Director of Community Affairs, NYC Department of Transportation, Division of Bridges Keith Bray, Brooklyn Borough Commissioner, NYC Department of Transportation Eric Landau, President, Brooklyn Bridge Park Corporation Eric Adams Brooklyn Borough President Daniel Squadron, NY State Senator Jo Anne Simon, NY State Assemblywoman Stephen Levin, NYC Councilmember Joanne Witty, Vice Chair, Brooklyn Bridge Park Corporation Henry B Gutman, Board Member, Brooklyn Bridge Park Corporation Nancy Webster, Executive Director, Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy Peter L. Bray, Executive Director, Brooklyn Heights Association Paul Germain, Organizer, Petition to Develop Montague Street Access Point to Brooklyn Bridge Park # # #
07.26.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Tweets issued by President Trump Wednesday morning calling for a ban on transgender individuals serving in the military: “It’s another shameful low when the President stoops to fear and bigotry to denounce the service of those risking their lives for our country. There are transgender Americans serving honorably in every branch of our military, both in the active and reserve forces. Calling for a prohibition on their service is simply divisive political rhetoric meant to cater to those holding prejudiced views. “Not only is this proposal an ugly affront to our values, but pursuing a policy like this would put our troops in harm’s way by eroding morale and depriving our military of the broadest possible pool of talent. I call on Mr. Trump to immediately retract these comments.” # # #
07.25.2017	Substance Linked to Health Defects in Prenatal Children Washington, DC – As the Trump Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) moves to reverse an Obama-era ban on a toxic pesticide, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to rid the chemical from fields across the country. Today, Velázquez introduced The Pesticide Protection Act of 2017, which bans from commerce Chlorpyrifos, a toxic chemical that has been linked to damaging and often irreversible health outcomes in workers, pregnant women and children. “EPA Administrator Pruitt is showing his true colors by protecting big corporations at the expense of the public health and safety,” said Velázquez. “It’s unconscionable for EPA to turn a blind eye as children and workers are exposed to this poison. If the EPA won’t do its job when it comes to Chlorpyrifos, then Congress needs to act – and do so quickly.” “Chlorpyrifos has been shown to hurt the health and mental development of newborns and pregnant mothers,” said Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN), who co-led with Velázquez in introducing the measure. “This bill is an important step in the fight to ban Chlorpyrifos, and improve the lives of the farm workers, mothers and children whose lives have been shattered by this poison. By choosing to block the ban of this toxic pesticide, EPA Administrator Pruitt has shown that he cares about corporations more than the health of working American communities.” Chlorypyrifos is a widely used pesticide, with agriculture companies spraying 6 million pounds of the substance on crops like citruses, apples and cherries, annually. In the same family as Sarin gas, the substance was initially developed prior to World War II as a chemical weapon. Its current use requires agriculture workers to take extreme protective measures and wear additional gear like chemical restraint gloves and respirators. After being treated with Chlorpyrifos, fields are often so toxic that entry is restricted for up to 5 days. One study found that pregnant women in their second trimester who lived near fields sprayed with Chlorpyrifos gave birth to children who were 3.3 times more likely to have autism. In October of 2015, the Obama EPA took initial steps to preclude the chemical’s use. In March of this year, newly installed EPA Administrator Pruitt formally decided to reverse the ban. “This chemical was removed from commerce for good reason and for the Trump EPA to put Americans’ health at risk by kowtowing to chemical manufacturers’ lobbyists is unacceptable,” said Velázquez. “From questioning the effects of climate change to scaling back regulations to protect clean air and water, the Trump Administration is only six months along but has managed to lead a full scale assault on the environment. This ill-conceived decision is only the most recent example.” Velázquez’s bill has been endorsed by environmental groups such as the Pesticides Action Network of North America, the National Resources Defense Council and Environmental Working Group. Her bill closely mirrors legislation being promoted in the Senate by Senators Tom Udall (D-NM) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). Velázquez joined the Senators at an event today on the topic. Video of her remarks at that event can be seen on Facebook Live by clicking here. ###
07.18.2017	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, July 18, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) will host a panel of experts and other Members of Congress for a roundtable discussion on unlocking the keys to stimulating economic growth in Puerto Rico. Link to livestream: https://www.youtube.com/user/nydiavelazquez/live One year after passage of the Puerto Rico Oversight Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), Puerto Rico is actively working to restructure its debt. However, with much more to be done, many experts say fueling growth is crucial to promoting sustainable economic recovery on the Island. “When it comes to creating economic growth in Puerto Rico, we should leave no stone unturned,” said Velázquez. “Tuesday’s event will allow for a wide ranging discussion of diverse proposals to help overcome challenges Puerto Rico faces on the road back to prosperity.” The roundtable will feature a diverse array of Member of Congress as well as scholars and experts in relevant fields. Members of the media are strongly encouraged to attend.
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – New York City’s Democratic Members of the U.S. House today wrote the heads of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) following reports that federal immigration officials had been patrolling a Queens court that specializes in protecting human trafficking victims. The lawmakers’ letter condemns the incident and asks DHS Secretary Kelly to clearly outline the Department’s policy on agents targeting human trafficking victims. The letter outlines a number of concerns shared by the City delegation. Among them, the letter asks if the agency will deprioritize enforcement at courthouses that deal with human trafficking cases. In addition, the lawmakers want to know if detainment and deportation of trafficking victims has risen since President Trump took office. “It is simply unconscionable that ICE would target such a marginalized population,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who spearheaded the letter. “Tactics like this could well mean that other victims of trafficking are less likely to step out of the shadows and seek help they might otherwise obtain. We are demanding a clear explanation of DHS’ and ICE’s policies when it comes to trafficking victims.” “ICE agents showing up at a court for human trafficking victims – which is located in my Congressional district – is deeply troubling, and the targeting of such a vulnerable population is unacceptable,” said U.S. Rep. Grace Meng (D-Queens). “I am gravely concerned that such actions by ICE will negatively impact our legal system and prevent victims from coming to court and seeking the help they need. Secretary Kelly and Director Homan must immediately provide us with the answers we seek about victims of trafficking. I eagerly await their replies.” “I am deeply troubled by the incident that recently occurred at the Queens County courthouse. This young Chinese woman was a victim of human trafficking, and yet another example of how ICE policies and procedures have failed our judicial system and the most vulnerable individuals among us,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). “Enough is enough and the immigrant community deserves better – we deserve to feel secure, and we deserve to be safe when seeking justice. My Protecting Sensitive Locations Act prohibits immigration enforcement, including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance at locations deemed sensitive that include areas such as medical or health care facilities, public and private schools, places of worship, courthouses, DMV offices, and locations that provide emergency services. This young woman was seeking safety and the system failed.” Congressman Joe Crowley (D, Queens, the Bronx), chairman of the House Democratic Caucus: "As the Trump Administration’s crackdown on immigrants continues, we have seen yet another example of how truly troubling their methods are. I am appalled that federal agents are targeting immigrants who have been victims of crimes at the very places they should feel protected. These tactics only make Queens, the Bronx, and our communities throughout the country less safe by eroding trust between immigrant communities and the law enforcement officers who protect us all. My colleagues and I will not let this go on unabated and we demand an explanation from ICE and DHS officials.” “These reports about ICE agents at court houses are deeply troubling and would seem to constitute a serious overreach by the Administration,” said Congressman Engel (D-NY). “If true, the targeting of victims of sex trafficking while they’re at their most vulnerable is nothing short of predatory. DHS needs to clearly and concisely explain how these ICE agents are operating, especially as it relates to victims of human trafficking.” “Law enforcement agencies should be focused on going after traffickers, not their victims. It is horrific that DHS officials were targeting a trafficking survivor who was seeking justice in court and the agency needs to come clean about it was doing and explain its policies with respect to trafficked individuals. Our priority must be creating an environment in which these individuals feel safe to interact with law enforcement and have the opportunity to get compassionate support from programs that help survivors transition to a free life in the United States,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY). "Courthouses and other sensitive locations should be off limits when it comes to ICE enforcement activities. These type of practices only threaten our public safety security by making immigrants more likely to remain in the shadows and reluctant to cooperate with law enforcement. We need a clear answer from ICE on their policy and practices when it comes to areas like courthouses and victims of human trafficking and the guarantee that they are respecting the law and protecting individuals civil rights," said Congressman Serrano (D-NY). “It is reprehensible that this Administration would advocate policies that go after victims of human trafficking and force them to fear the consequences of coming forward to seek help,” said Congressman Nadler (D-NY). “We are seeing a pattern where—under the Trump Administration—DHS and ICE agents are targeting as criminals undocumented immigrants who are victims of human trafficking, of domestic abuse, and even those who put their own lives at risk in order to help after 9/11. This is a violation of our morals as a nation. Congress has a responsibility to protect victims, and we must use every tool at our disposal to stop these harmful actions.” “It is the federal government’s duty to serve the people, particularly those that have experienced unconscionable suffering," said Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). "We should be going after felons, not families who are here pursuing the American dream. ICE must cease targeting vulnerable immigrant communities immediately." A copy of the letter can be found online here. ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, calling for the agency to grant protections under the Freshwater Wetlands Act to the Ridgewood Reservoir. “The Ridgewood Reservoir is a local environmental gem that we should protect for future generations,” noted Velázquez. “Granting the reservoir wetland status would mean that legal environmental protections under the Freshwater Wetlands Act would be extended to the reservoir, aiding its preservation.” The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. A .pdf is online here. July 11, 2017 Eileen Murphy, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation 625 Broadway Albany, New York 12233-0001 Dear Ms. Murphy, We write to urge you to designate the Ridgewood Reservoir as a wetland- thereby granting the reservoir protection from development as provided by the Freshwater Wetlands Act. This environmental landmark, which straddles parts of Brooklyn and Queens, is not only an important example of 19th century urban infrastructure, but a unique ecological environment that deserves the protections afforded by wetland designation. The Ridgewood Reservoir, built between 1856 and 1858, is the last remaining piece of the water supply system of the City of Brooklyn. It was an engineering marvel at the time, and continues to be an asset to Highland Park - it helps provides flood protection by temporarily holding water and slowing storm water runoff. The reservoir also offers invaluable insight into the environmental history of Brooklyn, Queens and Nassau County. Since being decommissioned in 1989, the site has become a historical and environmental landmark and has been described as, “a beautiful fairytale forest in the middle of the city” by ecological professionals . The three reservoir basins have evolved into distinct ecological environments, from woodlands to wetlands. The special wetland conditions provide unique habitat for species that cannot survive elsewhere. Migratory birds depend on wetlands, and many endangered and threatened animal species require wetlands during part of their life cycle. It is home to a broad diversity of plants, over 180 species of insects, reptiles, and animals including 148 species of birds. Other mammals and reptiles found in the reservoir include opossum, raccoon, squirrels, voles, snapping turtles, garter snakes, and frogs. The reservoir’s abundance pf plant life includes Grey Birch trees, mosses, sedges and grasses as well as Poplar and Willow trees. Also, pools of standing water have resulted in the growth of wetland plants- some of which are listed on the Threatened and Endangered lists. This evolution is unique in the city and affords an unequaled opportunity to study nature. Today, local schools organize trail walk educational tours of the reservoir, teaching students about the rare flora and fauna the wetland supports. With a newfound appreciation for this unique habitat, students have become some of the most vocal advocates for its protection. Additionally, the 160-year-old, 50 acre reservoir is the last vestige of Brooklyn’s historic waterworks. It is imperative to retain Brooklyn’s natural beauty, which is why wetland designation for the Ridgewood Reservoir is a prudent decision. In short, this unique part of our city must be preserved and ensuring the sanctity of beautiful ecological marvels must be a top priority given the Trump Administrations’ lack of concern for environmental safety As you know, community leaders, environmental organizations, and elected officials have worked together since 2009 in an effort to preserve the reservoir by attaining wetland designation. Residents and local environmental activists filed an application for wetlands designation with your organization in 2010- yet only in the last two weeks has the regional supervisor finally conducted a field survey at the reservoir; then stating the reservoir will be revisited in July before releasing findings in the fall. While we are happy to see progress is being made, the wetlands designation for the Ridgewood Reservoir has spanned over 7 years. We hope that this lengthy ordeal can be expedited, and that your organization recognizes the distinct and unique value of the Ridgewood Reservoir. We strongly believe the Ridgewood Reservoir merits said wetland designation with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for its urban, engineering and environmental significance. We respectfully urge you to exercise your authority and render this designation. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velazquez Member of Congress cc: NYC H2O Queens Borough Parks Commissioner Dotty Lewandowski Liam Kavanagh, Deputy Parks Commissioner Steve Zahn, Acting Director NY State DEC Region 2 Ken Scarlatelli, Natural Resource Manager for NY State DEC Region 2; Salema Davis, CB5 Brooklyn Parks Committee Chairwoman
07.11.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the recent collapse of a ‘Biao Hui’ or underground lending club in Chinatown. Losses totaled more than $20 million for an estimated 780 investors, marking it one of the largest such losses in recent memory. “Unfortunately, New York’s immigrant communities are too often targets of deceit and fraud. We must all work together to ensure that our neighbors are educated about these scams and about correct ways to invest their money. “In recent months, I have hosted several ‘Know Your Rights’ educational workshops in Chinatown and Sunset Park to inform our neighbors of their rights with regard to immigration law. Similarly, in coming weeks, I will look into working with the New York Police Department, other law enforcement and financial institutions to educate the community about avoiding these scams and finding legitimate platforms to invest their money.” 國會議員維樂貴絲對於近期標會詐騙事件聲明 華盛頓特區-國會議員維樂貴絲 (紐約地區) 發表了以下有關紐約華社標會倒會的聲明‧這次事件估計有780名投資者及其超過2000萬美元的損失總額, 是近期紀錄中最大的損失之一。 “不幸的是, 紐約的移民社區往往是詐騙案的目標。我們必須共同努力, 以確保大家能受到適當的教育來了解有關騙局和正確的投資方式。 近幾個月來, 我已在唐人街和日落公園地區舉辦了幾次 “了解你的權利” 教育講座, 向我們的社區講解他們在移民法方面的權利。同樣地, 在接下來的幾個星期裡, 我會考慮與紐約警察局, 其他執法部門以及金融機構合作, 給我們的社區提供有關避免這些騙局和如何找到合法的投資平台的資訊。” # # #
07.06.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that, during a radio interview, Thomas Rivera Schatz, Puerto Rican Senate President, used the masculine pronoun in reference to Ana Matosantos, the only female member of Puerto Rico’s Financial Oversight Board: “These comments are beneath the dignity of Mr. Schatz’s office and an affront to all Puerto Ricans. Mr. Schatz’s remarks smack of homophobia and he should apologize immediately. Ana Matosantos has served honorably on the Board and, while she endeavors to wrestle with tough decisions to help the people of Puerto Rico, Mr. Schatz is engaging in reprehensible name calling. He should be ashamed of himself.” # # #
07.05.2017	Please be sure to check out this important information for New Yorkers who use the M Subway Line. As the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) begins to make repairs, additional service routes will be provided. For more click here. ###
06.30.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Puerto Rico’s Financial Oversight Board voted unanimously to enter into Title III for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA): “The Board’s decision is the right one and it is further evidence that it can act in the best interests of the Puerto Rican people. This decision will ensure electric rates do not skyrocket for Puerto Rico’s residents and local businesses and allow for an orderly and just restructuring of the utility’s debts. The fact that the Board reached this decision unanimously underscores how necessary this step was and I commend the Board for taking it.” # # #
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding consideration in the House of Representatives of two anti-immigrant bills promoted by Republicans: “Today, House Republicans are pushing another heartless attack on immigrants and their families. This ‘deportation policy’ is an affront to American values and to our way of life. This policy of deportation is predicated on a politics of division. “These measures are designed to create fear among immigrants and their families. Let’s be clear – our nation is a nation of immigrants. I come from New York City. In my district – New York’s 7th – at one point 86 languages were spoken – representing the depth and breadth of our nation’s immigrant heritage. As I always like to say, in New York, immigrants are our neighbors. And New Yorkers stand up for their neighbors. “But not only are these bills an affront to our values – they are poor public policy that simply will not work. The Sanctuary Cities bill would require local law enforcement to be an accomplice in enforcing federal immigration policy – or risk losing federal funds. You are telling me that a City like New York City – which always has a risk of terrorism – has to choose between federal security funds and our history of diversity? That’s unacceptable. And, let’s remember, when you create distrust between local law enforcement and immigration communities, we are all less safe. “Meanwhile, H.R. 3004 would drastically increase penalties on immigrants seeking re-entry, many of whom simply wish to be reunited with their families. Yet, the bill would do nothing to make us safer. There are already laws on the books punishing people for illegally re-entering the United States. “These bills are not about making us safer. They are about scapegoating, attacking and castigating immigrants. They are about sowing fear in immigrant communities and playing off prejudice and distrust. We are a better nation than this. We are a nation of immigrants. And we will oppose these repugnant attacks on immigrant communities.” # # #
06.27.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding media reports that the Senate Republican Leadership has delayed a vote on their healthcare legislation: “After hiding their version of Trumpcare from the American people and even other Members of Congress for months, the Senate Republican Leadership this week unveiled a coldhearted proposal to take coverage from 22 million Americans, gut preexisting condition protections and ravage Medicaid. I’m grateful that – for now – action on this mean spirited legislation has been brought to a halt. “It is time, at last, for Congress to pull the plug on Trumpcare, rather than trying to pull the plug on the American people. I stand ready to work across the aisle with my Republican colleagues on meaningful, bipartisan legislation to improve our healthcare system. However, should Republicans try to revive their callous ‘Trumpcare’ legislation after the July recess, we will resist it.” # # #
06.26.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Supreme Court is lifting portions of Trump’s Muslim Ban: “The Administration’s travel ban does not make us safer, but rather plays into the hands of those who would do our nation harm. This policy provides a ready-made recruiting poster for terrorists and extremists, endangering our security. Equally important, this rank discrimination is an affront to our nation’s values. “The lifting of these injunctions is gravely disappointing, and we must continue fighting to resist this repugnant policy at every turn. It’s my hope that, when the Court revisits this issue in the fall, it has the prudence to see this ban as the unwise, unconstitutional and un-American policy that it is.” In January, Velázquez was one of the first Members of Congress to travel to JFK Airport where she helped secure the release of several individuals being detained under the newly implemented travel ban. # # #
06.23.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Linda McMahon would be visiting Puerto Rico next week: “I applaud Administrator McMahon for traveling to Puerto Rico to observe firsthand what is happening there. It is my hope that other members of the Administration and the President’s cabinet follow her lead and also travel to the Commonwealth to gather a better understanding of Puerto Rico’s financial and economic difficulties – and how they are impacting the lives of the 3.5 million Americans living there. “Tackling Puerto Rico’s economic challenges will require a range of tools and the SBA has a number of initiatives that could stimulate entrepreneurship and local economic activity. My bill, ‘The Puerto Rico Small Business Assistance Act’, H.R. 2488, seeks to better tailor SBA programs to meet the Island’s need. It would channel capital to small firms operating in Puerto Rico and facilitate their participation in the federal procurement process. I hope to work constructively with the Administrator and the SBA to see this bill signed into law.” The first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, Velázquez is the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee. # # #
06.21.2017	Washington, DC – Legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) would improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), reducing fraud and ensuring policyholders are able to obtain the claims they are owed after floods. Her bill, H.R. 2875, would make a number of necessary reforms, correcting problems in the program that became apparent after Hurricane Sandy. The measure was approved today by the House Financial Services Committee. “After Sandy, we heard from homeowners in New York City and up and down the East Coast who saw their claims denied, delayed or underpaid due to problems in the flood insurance program,” Velázquez said. “This bipartisan legislation would address these shortcomings and protect policyholders from fraud and abuse.” Velázquez’s legislation would reform the Write Your Own (“WYO”) component in the NFIP. The WYO program is an arrangement between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the private insurance industry, which allows participating property and casualty insurance companies to write and service FEMA’s Standard Flood Insurance Policy (“SFIP”) in their own names. As of 2015, there were 79 companies participating in the WYO program and handling the majority of flood insurance policies. In addition to the WYO program, FEMA also administers a small number of policies through the NFIP’s Direct program. “Multiple studies and investigations have found that FEMA hasn’t conducted the appropriate oversight over the Write Your Own Program,” Velázquez noted. “Unfortunately, some bad actors participating in this program have gamed the system to avoid paying policyholders’ claims after flood disasters.” As of 2015, FEMA was seeking to settle roughly 1,800 lawsuits filed by homeowners claiming they were underpaid on flood insurance claims after Sandy. According to advocates and others, private insurers altered reports to reduce the amount and number of claims the insurance companies paid out. Among other reforms, Velázquez’s legislation would improve disclosure and transparency for policyholders so they have a better sense of what is covered under NFIP policies, enhance penalties for fraudulent statement related to climate adjustments, and provide FEMA with additional authorities and responsibilities for overseeing litigation conducted by WYOs. It would also initiate a pilot program to authorize WYOs to inspect pre-existing structural conditions of insured and pre-insured properties that could result in a denial of a flood insurance claim. “When disasters strike and homeowners find their property flooded, the last thing they need is to encounter bureaucratic resistance recouping their losses from an insurance company,” Velázquez added. “As our climate changes, unfortunately, we’ll likely see future catastrophic weather events, making it all the more important that the federal government’s flood initiative functions efficiently and fairly.” Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. The Committee approved her bill unanimously by a bipartisan vote of 58 to 0. The measure must now be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
06.21.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to ease student loan debt for professionals employed in the arts. The American Arts Revival Act extends federal public service loan forgiveness to cultural workers, museum professionals, artistic professionals and certain arts and humanities professors—all of whom provide services for seniors, children or adolescents. “Those working in the arts and related fields make invaluable contributions to New York City and to our entire nation,” said Velázquez. “Individuals that dedicate themselves to these professions enrich our culture and my bill would provide many of them with relief from mounting student loan debt.” Those who pursue a college-level degree in the arts are likely to rack up sizable student loan debt compared to many of their peers. The average debt for a graduate specializing in art, music and design averages at nearly $22,000. Furthermore, graduates of liberal arts colleges average a median debt of $19,445 versus $18,100 for research universities. Under the bill, in order to qualify for forgiveness, individuals must be employed full-time in the performing, visual or musical arts that provide services to seniors, children or adolescents. These individuals would qualify for up to $10,000 of loan forgiveness. The bill would also amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to state that professions offering these services are deemed to be in the public interest. Numerous studies highlight the benefits of an arts education including: higher test scores, greater community involvement and a reduced risk of dropping out of school. A 2006 study showed that students who took music courses scored 57 points higher on the verbal section of the SAT and 41 points higher in math, than peers with no arts participation. “Investing in arts and arts education is an investment in our children,” Velázquez noted. “Not only will this initiative assist arts educators, but by attracting additional talent to the field, it will benefit students, young people, seniors and adolescents who take these courses.” Velázquez’s bill has been endorsed by over 100 organizations including major educational institutions like the Pratt Institute, Carnegie Hall and the California Institute for the Arts. “Educating artists and designers and providing them with the skill set to succeed in life as creative professionals is critical, and we are proud to support the American Arts Revival Act of 2017,” said Pratt Institute President Thomas F. Schutte. “We live in a fascinating time of great creative inspiration and pioneering work, all of which impacts our country in myriad ways, from contributing to our nation’s economy to shaping our diverse culture. By reducing student debt, we are encouraging our creative thinkers to dedicate themselves to their work and further expand the boundaries of innovation in this country.” “Carnegie Hall applauds Congresswoman Velázquez’s commitment to expanding access to arts education, and her recognition that supporting cultural and artistic professionals is in our nation’s interest and will contribute substantially to our economy and society,” said David Freudenthal, Director of Government Relations. “I am proud to represent the students, faculty, staff, and alumni of the California Institute of the Arts in announcing our support of Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez’s American Arts Revival Act of 2017. This important legislation will amend section 428K(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, and wisely brings debt relief to artists who have dedicated their lives and talent to the service of others”, said California Institute of the Arts President Ravi S. Rajan. “The American Arts Revival Act of 2017 will strengthen our country in many ways, as artists play a vital role in a healthy democracy. I urge all Americans to support this important legislation.” “New York has long been an artistic and cultural capital,” Velázquez concluded. “We must continue working to invest in our cultural economy by supporting arts and the artists who enrich our communities and all our lives.” # # #
06.20.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the Constitution: “The American people deserve to know that the President is serving in their interest. With his ties to Russia and pandering to Saudi Arabia, I have serious concerns that President Trump’s undisclosed business interests might be influencing policy. “I have joined nearly 200 of my colleagues in Congress in filing a federal lawsuit against the President for violating the Constitution’s Foreign Emoluments Clause. The United States cannot afford for our leaders to be pawns for under-the-table payment schemes from foreign governments. “I will use every tool at my disposal to hold President Trump accountable for the tremendous responsibility and oath he has sworn to uphold.” # # #
06.19.2017	Analysis Highlights Devastating Cuts to Housing, Transit, Security Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released a new report today which paints a dark portrait of how New York City and its residents would suffer should the President’s newly released budget be implemented. In the wake of the newly released budget proposal, the report takes a hard look at devastating cuts to public housing, transportation, and safety—delivering what would be a sharp blow to New Yorkers. “For someone who calls himself a ‘New Yorker’, President Trump’s budget would do great damage to our City,” said Rep. Velázquez. “It’s hard to name one area that the Administration’s reckless budget will not harm. In Congress, I remain as committed as ever to fighting these cuts every step of the way.” In 2018, the City is slated to begin major transit overhauls, including: updates to the L train which services Brooklyn and Manhattan, extension of the new 2nd avenue subway line and improvement for the Woodhaven Boulevard Select Bus Service. However, the President’s budget cuts Federal Transit Capital Investment Grants by 100%, culminating in an over $2 billion loss for projects like these. In addition, the budget zeroes out the TIGER Grant program, which helps leverage private sector and municipal resources to fund innovative transportation projects like bicycle lanes and pedestrian safety, costing the City more than $26 million. “New Yorkers rely on public transit to go about their everyday lives, get to work and travel around the City,” said Rep. Velázquez. “Trump’s budget will compound service delays and put on hold projects we need that make our streets safer for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians. Despite all the Administration’s lip service about infrastructure investment, it is clear from this budget that Donald Trump would let our transportation systems deteriorate.” The Trump budget not only hits New Yorkers on their commute, but it would also eliminate resources that provide them a place to live. The Budget proposes enormous cuts to the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), the largest public housing authority in the nation, which serves over 400,000 New Yorkers in 326 developments throughout the city. President Trump has proposed a nearly 70% cut to public housing, which would culminate in a $200 million loss. For families and residents facing economic hardship, the Community Service Block Grant Program (CSBG) is designed to target the root causes of poverty. The city would lose over $32 million with the budget eliminating these grants. “Targeting public housing is cruel,” said Velázquez. “NYCHA relies on help from federal funding to operate and serve many of our most vulnerable New Yorkers. Further, completely eliminating the CSBG program will literally leave people in the streets.” As one of the world’s most established urban hubs, New York City relies on dedicated resources and initiatives to combat the threat of terrorism. Since the tragedy of 9/11, City agencies have worked to thwart 20 terrorist plots, largely due to federal programs like the State Homeland Security Program. However, President Trump’s budget proposes a nearly $10 million loss in counter-terrorism funding from this program. Additionally, two initiatives designed to protect New Yorkers from terrorism would be cut by 100% under the President’s budget. A program created to protect the ports of the city would lose over $10 million, exposing harbors and ports to greater risk. The budget also proposes slashing the Urban Area Security Initiative, the City’s main source of federal homeland security funds—a nearly $140 million loss. “It is imperative that our city be equipped to detect and stop terrorism,” noted Velázquez. “It’s incredibly hypocritical and ironic that President Trump is draining New York City taxpayers by requiring them to pay for his security costs at Trump Tower, while slashing cuts to keep the city safe from terrorism.” The report finds that, if adopted, these cuts would eliminate nearly $3 billion of New York City’s federal funding. The report compiled by Velázquez further highlights cuts to education, arts, environment, research, and health. “The livelihood of all New Yorkers is at risk if this budget ever sees the light of day,” Velázquez concluded. “I remain deeply troubled by the vision and priorities outlined by this Administration.” The full report is online here. # # #
06.19.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled legislation to combat the rise of synthetic marijuana. Commonly known as “K2” or “Spice”, the bill comes in the wake of a surge in overdoses from the drug. The “Synthetic Drug Prevention, Treatment, and Education Act” deploys federal resources to educate the public on the dangers of these substances and focuses on at-risk populations. “Overdoses from synthetic marijuana in Brooklyn in recent years are cause for profound concern,” said Velázquez. “When users have no way of knowing what exactly is in the substance, there is an even greater threat to the public health.” Under the bill, the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention would be mandated to develop a comprehensive strategy on preventing and treating the use of synthetic recreational drugs like “K2”. Additionally, the Secretary of Health would coordinate with the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Agency to create a database of substances that may be determined by CDC to qualify as a synthetic drug. “Since we do not have a full understanding of how it affects users and how to treat its rise, this study will give us a full accounting of what works best,” Velázquez added. “It is vital we take steps at all levels of government to address the growth of synthetic marijuana and protect our communities.” Velázquez’s bill authorizes the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention (CDC) to provide grants for federally qualified health centers so they can embark on public awareness campaigns within local communities. The Act would authorize the Director of the CDC to make grants up to $250,000 in aggregate of $5 million over the next two years for such efforts. The bill also requires multiple federal agencies including the Drug Enforcement Agency and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to develop a national outreach campaign that will educate law enforcement, local and state agencies and healthcare providers about synthetic drugs. According to General Arthur T. Dean, the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA) CEO and Chairman, “the Synthetic Drug Prevention and Treatment Education Act could not have been introduced at a more critical time. Given the prevalence and dangers of synthetic drugs, it is so important that a national outreach campaign be authorized to educate all community sectors about the detrimental effects of synthetic drugs, raise public awareness about how to best prevent their use and treat those who are addicted. CADCA is particularly thankful that this bill acknowledges the critical role Drug-Free Community coalitions play in comprehensively working on prevention strategies that include all the key stakeholders in a community as the partner organization that federally-qualified health centers may coordinate with to increase public awareness and prevent the use of synthetic drugs in the new grant program.” The measure is co-sponsored by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY). # # #
06.16.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) today wrote to the Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico, arguing that the Board should not certify the current Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority’s (PREPA) Restructuring Support Agreement (RSA), which the lawmakers say would benefit wealthy creditors at the expense of the Island’s residents. “Higher electricity costs are detrimental to the local economy, causing businesses both large and small to operate with reduced margins, leaving them less able to expand and hire new employees. As currently drafted, the RSA will only accelerate the outmigration of residents and businesses. This downward spiral will deplete what is left of the Island’s economic foundation,” the lawmakers wrote. Velázquez is the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress. Grijalva is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over Puerto Rico. The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. June 16, 2017 Mr. José B. Carrión III Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico PO Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Chairman Carrión, Amidst the economic difficulties facing Puerto Rico, creditors continue to place the Island in a chokehold. One such instance is the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority’s (PREPA) Restructuring Support Agreement (RSA), which requires certification from the Oversight Board that you lead. In its review of this RSA, the Board must carefully examine the economic effects that this RSA will have on every resident of the Island. The Board has clear legal authority to consider this RSA. In its September 30, 2016 meeting, the Board designated PREPA as a covered territorial instrumentality. As a result, it is required by section 601(e) of PROMESA to authorize any voluntary, Title VI restructuring, including the proposed RSA. It is the Board’s responsibility to determine whether the RSA should go forward. A key provision of the RSA is its securitization of electricity revenues for the benefit of PREPA’s creditors. Above all claims, the agreement will protect the payments to creditors levied on the backs of the residents that pay their electricity. With residents leaving the Island at a historical pace, there are fewer residents to shoulder these costs, resulting in higher rates for those that stay on Island. Higher electricity costs are detrimental to the local economy, causing businesses both large and small to operate with reduced margins, leaving them less able to expand and hire new employees. As currently drafted, the RSA will only accelerate the outmigration of residents and businesses. This downward spiral will deplete what is left of the Island’s economic foundation. In the bipartisan report from the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico, we all agreed that the ultimate goal for the energy sector in Puerto Rico is that PREPA and the government make “electric power more reliable and affordable.” As drafted now, the terms of the RSA do not provide for the comprehensive transformation of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority necessary to lower electricity costs. After careful review, we cannot locate any language in PROMESA that restricts the Oversight Board from considering whether consensual negotiations under Title VI, or any preexisting voluntary agreements, are obstacles to economic growth. Put differently, it would be the reverse of PROMESA’s provisions, logic and Congressional intent. It would be irresponsible to acknowledge that the Board needs to certify the PREPA RSA as a Qualifying Modification without considering that such a certification would be directly inconsistent with PROMESA’s overarching purpose, namely to provide a mechanism for fiscal responsibility and access to the capital markets. In the congressional hearing held by the House Natural Resources Committee on March 22, 2017 on the status of the RSA for PREPA, you indicated that “the Board has been strongly committed to a ‘once and done’ approach to Puerto Rico’s financial crisis. This means establishing a set of policy changes…[to] put the budget and economy back on track. We believe such an approach is necessary for Puerto Rico to effectively use the tools PROMESA has provided to genuinely solve Puerto Rico’s longstanding crisis, and to put the Island on the path to a better future.” While some of my colleagues in Congress believe that creditors’ concerns lie before the needs of the most vulnerable, PROMESA clearly stipulated that Congress’ intent was to provide Puerto Rico the tools to comprehensively restructure its debt and lay out a path forward. Title VII of PROMESA reads: “It is the sense of the Congress that any durable solution for Puerto Rico’s fiscal and economic crisis should include permanent, pro-growth fiscal reforms that feature, among other elements, a free flow of capital between possessions of the United States and the rest of the United States.” PROMESA was one of the most difficult votes we have had to take in our years in Congress. And we only did so because we were assured that it was the most effective route to restructure the debt and restart economic growth for the Island. It is not a coincidence that the very title of the law includes the words “Economic Stability”. And the truth is that a path of sustainable economic development is beneficial to all stakeholders, including creditors. We therefore urge you not to certify PREPA’s RSA and instead work with creditors to find a sustainable solution, or if there is no appetite by creditors to do so, enter a Title III restructuring. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Raúl Grijalva Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: Natalie Jaresko, Executive Director, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Andrew G. Biggs, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Carlos M. García, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Arthur J. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico José R. González, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico Ana J. Matosantos, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico David A. Skeel, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board of Puerto Rico
06.16.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Trump has appointed Lynne Patton to lead the Department of Housing and Development’s (HUD) Region II office: “This appointment is a slap in the face to New Yorkers, NYCHA residents and all Americans who rely on well administered HUD programs to have livable housing and safe communities. By all accounts Ms. Patton is fundamentally unqualified for this position. I strongly urge the Administration to revisit this decision, which appears on its face to be shameful patronage at the expense of working families.” # # #
06.15.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced a bill to posthumously award a Congressional gold medal to Rabbi Michoel Ber Weissmandl, a testament to his heroic legacy of protecting the Jewish people during the Holocaust. “At a time when the stakes could not have been higher, Rabbi Weissmandl took brave risks, ultimately saving lives,” said Rep. Velázquez. “It is with the utmost respect that I’ve introduced a bill to award him with a Congressional gold medal—the highest civilian award in the United States.” During World War II, Weissmandl was responsible for numerous acts to save the Jewish people of Slovakia from the Nazi regime. Forming an underground organization called the “Working Group”, Weissmandl led an effort to bribe German officials, ultimately succeeding to delay mass deportations. He also helped plan the bombing of railroad tunnels transporting Jewish people to concentration camps. During a time when Slovakian officials sent the message that Jewish people were being deported for “resettlement”, Weissmandl was the first to tell the Working Group that they were actually being murdered. In 1945, Weissmandl reached the shores of America, ultimately settling in New York. Wasting no time, he immediately started working to better the lives of Holocaust survivors. To do so, Weissmandl established a home for survivors and the Yishiva of Nitra in Mount Kisco, New York, the first Yeshiva campus in America. Weissmandl is also credited with spearheading the now flourishing communities of Talmudic scholars in New York and across America. “A pioneer in the Jewish community of New York, Rabbi Weissmandl’s contributions to the city carry an unwavering legacy of strength and resilience,” said Rep. Velázquez. “We must never forget the monumental risk and bravery displayed by a life dedicated to fighting intolerance and extremism.” ###
06.12.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding HUD Secretary Ben Carson’s visit to New York City and the New York Stock Exchange: “Rather than visiting Wall Street, I would hope Secretary Carson would spend all his time in New York City gathering a deeper understanding of the perennial housing challenges facing New Yorkers. “Given that the Administration’s budget proposed deep and devastating cuts to NYCHA and other programs that New York’s working families rely on, it is clear this Administration does not understand housing policy and how it affects the day-to-day lives of Americans – in New York and elsewhere. Especially in light of Dr. Carson’s recent comments about poverty being a ‘state of mind’, I would think he could find better ways to spend his time than ringing the closing bell at the Stock Exchange.” # # #
06.11.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the plebiscite held in Puerto Rico: “When it comes to determining their future political relationship with the U.S., the Puerto Rican people need and deserve a process that is open, inclusive and transparent. This plebiscite failed to live up to that standard and the deck was stacked throughout the process. With members of two of the three major political parties in Puerto Rico boycotting the vote, we can safely assume the results do not even remotely reflect public sentiment on the Island. "I believe there should be a democratic mechanism for the Puerto Rican people to determine their destiny, but to have any degree of legitimacy, such a process must follow the rules and not be haphazardly rushed. “This could have been the first plebiscite paid for with federal funds but, because the process was rushed and did not meet conditions required in statute, the Puerto Rican people are left footing the bill. Those taxpayer resources would have been better used helping alleviate the Island’s suffering. "At a time when the education system is being shuttered, more than half the children of Puerto Rico live below the poverty line, public hospitals are running out of doctors and antibiotics and local emergency response services are being scaled back, spending funds on a misguided, ‘dog and pony show’ plebiscite is unacceptable. “For my part, I will continue working to help Puerto Rico address the many challenges it faces such as focusing on what’s really important – rebuilding its economy and ensuring adequate resources for its healthcare system.” # # #
06.08.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 10, the Financial “Wrong Choice Act” which would gut consumer protections created under the Dodd-Frank Act. “Mr. Chairman, my colleagues seem to suffer from a case of policymaking amnesia. I was here in 2008 as our nation stood on the edge of financial ruin. I will never forget those dark days. “Thanks to Wall Street making reckless bets and inadequate government oversight, millions of Americans lost their homes and jobs. Main Street small businesses shed employees and many shut their doors for good. Our economy nearly slid into another depression. Now, my Republican colleagues may have forgotten that sequence of events—but let me tell you something -- the American people have not forgotten! “Dodd-Frank has improved accountability in the financial system. It has protected consumers and investors from predatory practices. It stabilized our markets. And, yet, here we are talking about gutting this landmark law! “The American people are watching. Let’s be clear –if you vote yes, you are voting to restore the same conditions that fueled the crisis and collapse of 2008! It is a vote you will regret and be remembered for! Vote NO.” # # #
06.05.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Andrew Olmem has been granted a waiver by the White House to work on issues affecting Puerto Rico’s financial crisis. Previously, while in the private sector, Olmem lobbied on behalf of hedge fund clients that held Puerto Rican debt. “Andrew Olmem has a well-documented history of lobbying on behalf of the same vulture funds that bought Puerto Rico’s debt on the cheap, looking to profit from the Island’s suffering. Granting a waiver enabling him to shape Puerto Rico’s financial and economic policy is not only a blatant conflict of interest, but also a grave insult to the people of Puerto Rico and those who have been working responsibly to resolve this crisis. This is further proof that Mr. Trump’s pledge to ‘drain the swamp’ was merely a cynical campaign trail promise that he has never intended to live up to. The President and the White House should rescind this waiver immediately.” # # #
06.02.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding 2017 Pride Month: “Throughout decades of struggle and oppression, LGBT leaders have overcome enormous barriers to pave the way for groundbreaking victories for equality. As we mark the beginning of Pride Month, it is our collective duty to ensure that our society treats every human being with respect, equality and dignity. “Sadly, the current Administration has taken steps to openly discriminate against LGBT individuals. With the passage of so-called ‘bathroom bills’, protections from discrimination being rolled back and refusal to count LGBT individuals in the census, it is clear there is still work ahead of us. I strongly support the Equality Act, which extends many provisions from the Civil Rights Act to LGBT people. “New Yorkers maintain a proud history of tolerance and celebration of one another’s differences. We must make it our collective goal to ensure that no one is treated as a second-class citizen due to their gender identity or sexual orientation. We all have a role to play ensuring that our society grants every person equality under the law.” # # #
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding reports that President Trump has decided to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord: “President Trump’s decision is immoral and places our entire planet’s future in jeopardy. The United States cannot afford to abdicate our leadership role in tackling the challenge of climate change and a withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord would do exactly that. “For the sake of our planet, our children and future generations, I urge the Administration to reconsider and will pursue every available legislative remedy to stop our nation’s exit from this landmark agreement.” # # #
05.26.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding reports that three supervisors at Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC) have been charged with sexual assault: “These are deeply unsettling charges and I encourage a swift, thorough investigation and prosecution. I am also concerned that these events speak to broader management and oversight issues at MDC. In October, I wrote to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and to MDC voicing my concerns about conditions at this facility for female inmates. These latest allegations are alarming and my office will continue following up to ensure there is adequate oversight and appropriate reforms to ensure inmates rights are being fully respected.” # # #
05.25.2017	Washington, DC – The top Democrats of the House and Senate Small Business Committees are opposing cuts to the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund contained in the President’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget. In a letter sent today to Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and Budget Director Mulvaney, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) argued that the Fund helps channel capital to entrepreneurs operating in traditionally underserved communities. “If small businesses are the backbone of our economy, then access to affordable capital is the lifeblood,” said Velázquez, the Ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee. “The CDFI Fund plays a vital role filling in gaps in the small business credit market, especially for entrepreneurs seeking smaller loans. The Trump Administration’s plan to zero out this program would serve only to limit small business expansion and employment growth, particularly in economically distressed areas.” “Small businesses create 2 out of 3 new jobs and comprise 99 percent of employers,” said Shaheen, the lead Democrat on the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. “The health of the economy in New Hampshire and across the country is directly linked to a small business community that can readily access capital to start or grow their business. Eliminating the CDFI Fund is shortsighted and will undermine the ability of small businesses in rural and underserved communities to get small-dollar loans. If the Administration is serious about helping small businesses, it shouldn’t be eliminating this program – it should be investing in it.” The full text of the letter is below. A .pdf is online here. May 25, 2017 Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary, United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, United States Office of Management of Budget 725 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Director Mulvaney: We write to you on a matter of pressing concern for America’s small businesses, underserved communities, and the working men and women of this country. Earlier this week, President Donald Trump released his Federal Budget for FY 2018, which eliminates new program funding for the Treasury Department’s Community Development Financial Institutions (“CDFI”) Fund. We believe this decision is misguided and encourage you and President Trump to reconsider the call to eliminate funding for this vital program. As you know, access to capital is the lifeblood of America’s small businesses. When small businesses are presented with sufficient credit opportunities, they are able to expand, create jobs, make positive impacts in their community, and add to the overall health of the economy. Unfortunately, many small businesses still face trouble accessing affordable credit opportunities which limits their ability to grow and succeed. As a recent article in the American Banker points out: “more than 70% of small businesses seek loans under $250,000, but these relatively small-dollar loans are often least cost-effective for banks to lend. Traditional lenders are often wary of loans due to high default risk and the significant cost of underwriting.”[1] The Treasury Department’s CDFI Fund helps small businesses overcome the gap in the market left by insufficient lending opportunities from traditional financial institutions, like commercial banks. Through the CDFI Fund, the federal government provides competitive grant awards to local private-sector community development financial institutions (“CDFIs”) —such as banks, credit unions, loan funds, and microloan funds, or venture capital providers—on a competitive basis. These local mission-driven financial institutions are then able to attract and leverage billions of dollars in additional private sector capital. Through this type of arrangement, CDFIs are able to create credit opportunities for small businesses at accessible rates, with transparent terms, and even provide education and other support services to increase the likelihood of a small business’ success. Without CDFIs filling-in this market gap, many small businesses, particularly in our underserved communities, will be forced to move to more high-risk, high-cost lenders to meet their credit needs. Since its creation more than twenty years ago, the CDFI Fund has been one of the federal government’s best market-based strategies for leveraging private-sector dollars. Since its inception, the CDFI Fund has awarded more than $2 billion to CDFIs, and, historically, every dollar of federal funding has been leveraged ten times though a CDFI. Moreover, commercial banks can earn Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) credit for providing capital to CDFIs, presenting a win-win situation for commercial banks and small businesses. Through this investment, the small business owner is able to acquire a loan from a CDFI, often at an advantageous rate, and a commercial bank is able to satisfy a portion of its CRA requirement, which is often difficult and costly for banks to fulfill. Access to affordable credit remains an important issue for many of America’s small businesses and underserved communities, and with more than 1,000 CDFIs operating nationwide, CDFIs have become an integral part of nation’s financial services industry. At a time when we should be doing all we can to invest in our small businesses and underserved communities we should be expanding our federal investment in the CDFI Fund, not eliminating it. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. Sincerely Yours, Nydia M. Velazquez Jeanne Shaheen Member of Congress United States Senator # # #
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 Budget: “In sum, this budget constitutes a mean spirited, unconscionable attack on working families, seniors and children. “To shift generous tax breaks to millionaires, billionaires and large corporations, the President would slash programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Meals on Wheels and Social Security Disability Insurance benefits. “These are initiatives relied on by seniors and by hard working, low-income New Yorkers. SNAP provide nutritional assistance to 1.8 million families, the elderly and the disabled in New York. Yet this Administration takes aim at this initiative, suggesting slashing it by $193 billion - more than 25 percent – over the next decade. In order to give bigger tax breaks to his billionaire buddies, President Trump is literally willing to take food from the mouths of babes. “This plan would also hollow out the Community Development Block Grant initiative, which funds ‘Meals on Wheels’ and is critical to many of our communities. Everything from education to job training to housing to our environment would suffer if this budget were implemented. Medicaid would lose over $800 billion over ten years, depriving families of needed healthcare. “It’s a sad irony that many of the Americans who would be most devastated include those living in states and counties that voted overwhelmingly for the President. “Thankfully, these cuts stand little chance of being enacted as put forth, but they make starkly clear the President’s wrongheaded priorities. Democrats stood united, arm-in-arm during negotiations on the last Fiscal Year spending measure. The result was that we protected critical programs for families, kids and seniors. With this budget, the President has signaled his intent to harm our nation. As Democrats, we’ll simply have to fight harder to resist these immoral proposals. And, that’s exactly what we’ll do.” # # #
05.22.2017	Washington, DC –A new grant for NYU Lutheran Medical Center will greatly enhance access to oral health care for HIV patients at Sunset Park Health Council, Inc., Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. A community health center, the facility is located within Velázquez’s Brooklyn district. “Community Health Centers provide care to our city’s most vulnerable populations,” said Velázquez. “In neighborhoods where individuals often face a lack of health care services, these centers can be the difference between receiving quality care and none at all.” Through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program Park F Community Based Dental Partnership Program, Sunset Park Health Council is receiving $103,268. Operated by Lutheran Family Health Centers, the center has a multilingual and multicultural trained staff to respond to the needs of all patients in the community. In a unique partnership, this program will benefit both patients and providers. The grant will foster a collaborative community-based program that incorporates dental health services for underserved people living with HIV while also providing education and clinical training for dental students. The resources will expand dental services to promote a comprehensive individualized health care plan for those living with HIV. “To combat the devastating reality of being diagnosed with HIV, I’m confident that the staff at Sunset Park Health Council will put this new grant money to the best use by expanding services and reaching new patients,” said Velázquez. “I am proud to see these resources invested in an institution that already does so much to ensure quality health care in Sunset Park.” “Sunset Park Health Council serves some of our neighbors who are most in need of medical assistance,” Velázquez noted. “With these funds, the center will be able to expand its depth of services, particularly for New Yorkers living with HIV.” # # #
05.18.2017	Washington, DC- In the wake of disturbing results of high lead levels in New York City public schools, Democratic members sent a letter today to Education Chancellor Carmen Fariña urging additional steps to address the contamination. “It is not enough to test water for lead levels, in the face of concerning results, immediate action must be taken to remedy this injustice,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who spearheaded the letter. “For the sake of our children, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to ensure that a child’s experience in our public schools is a healthy and productive one.” While the City has taken actions to shut off outlets with lead levels above 15 parts per billion, the threshold to warrant serious concern, the letter highlights the need to do more. Multiple factors like temperature, plumbing, and water acidity contribute to unsafe lead levels. Members called for continued testing, an investigation into the source of contamination, and accessible information for parents and families. “When information on lead levels gets home and a parent or family member faces a language barrier, we are doing a disservice,” said Rep. Velázquez. “It is crucial that in an effort to educate families, we ensure that materials cater to the diversity of our city.” Additionally, the letter requests that Chancellor Fariña inform members of Congress of the necessary resources to rebuild damaged infrastructure and continue rigorous lead testing. “While we are dismayed by the testing results, we must not forget our common interest in serving the children of New York City,” said Rep. Velázquez. “As members of Congress, we rely on information provided by the Chancellor to know what resources are necessary to upgrade infrastructure and eliminate high lead levels.” Velazquez was joined by all eleven fellow members of the House of Representatives New York City delegation including: Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, Rep. Grace Meng, Rep. Yvette D. Clarke, Rep. Eliot L. Engel, Rep. Joseph Crowley, Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney, Rep. Adriano Espaillat, Rep. José E. Serrano, and Rep. Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. The text of the letter is below: Dear Chancellor Fariña, We were disturbed to learn that 83 percent of New York City school buildings had at least one fixture with lead levels above 15 parts per billion, including some drinking fountains. In some schools, levels were more than double the allowable limits. While we commend the city for retesting all schools without flushing pipes, as had been the city’s previous practice, we are deeply concerned about these results. As you know, exposure to lead can have devastating consequences for young children, including damage to the central and peripheral nervous system, learning disabilities, shorter stature, impaired hearing, and impaired formation and function of blood cells. That is why it is critical we not only inform parents of any lead risk, but make sure to fix the problem. We were pleased to see that you took swift action by turning off any outlets where the sample exceeded 15 parts per billion and have made plans to replace any fixtures. Unfortunately, fixtures are not always the source of the problem and lead concentrations in water are not static. Rather, pipes and plumbing could be the cause of lead leaching into the water. Moreover, water acidity and alkalinity, temperature, and other factors all determine the extent to which lead enters the water. According to Marc Edwards, the Virginia Tech professor who helped uncover the water crisis in Flint, “A tap that tested good today, can dispense dangerous levels of lead tomorrow, as long as lead is in the plumbing." Thus, it is critical that you not only continue to test water in schools, but also determine the source of lead contamination. Additionally, the American Academy of Pediatrics has suggested that drinking fountains in schools should not have lead concentrations of more than 1 part per billion. While we understand you are only required to follow federal guidelines, parents and pediatricians should be aware of the exact levels of lead in the water so that they can make informed decisions. We strongly urge you to continue testing, and sharing detailed information with schools and families, not only on school websites, but on the “Water Safety Portal.” As you work to keep communities informed, please ensure that this information is easily accessible and available in not only English, but the many languages spoken in our diverse city. Finally, we hope to be your partner in working to ensure schools provide a safe and enriching environment for children. That is why we ask that you inform us of the resources you need to adequately fix our city schools. You took an important step in retesting all schools and informing communities of the results. While we are alarmed by the findings, we look forward to working with you to rebuild our schools and keep our children’s drinking water safe. Sincerely, Download the full letter here. ###
05.18.2017	Washington DC- The top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), today unveiled an array of legislative proposals aimed at igniting small business growth and entrepreneurship in Puerto Rico. The economically beleaguered island has suffered from soaring unemployment, spiraling government debt and elevated poverty rates over the last decade. Velázquez, the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, said the legislation would advance entrepreneurship in Puerto Rico on a number of fronts, helping create greater opportunity on the island. “We’ve seen time and again throughout the U.S. how entrepreneurship can be a path out of poverty and stimulate local economic activity,” Velázquez noted. “This package of legislation will help small firms in Puerto Rico meet their capital needs, obtain federal contracts and, ultimately, grow, creating good-paying jobs along the way.” The proposals contained in Velázquez’s bill, “The Puerto Rico Small Business Assistance Act”, H.R. 2488, would utilize a number of existing programs at the Small Business Administration (SBA) to help right Puerto Rico’s struggling economy. To assist small companies seeking capital, her measure would boost the portion of a loan the government can guarantee under the SBA’s most popular “7(a)” lending program. The bill would also lower fees private lenders pay when participating in the program and making loans to small business borrowers. To expand small business access to credit, the U.S. Congress took similar moves to counteract the recession, beginning in 2009. “We’ve seen in the past that adjusting the guarantee level and fees in the SBA lending programs can be an effective way to get the small business credit spigot flowing,” Velázquez noted. “Making the changes in this bill will mean more opportunity for small companies in Puerto Rico to secure financing, expand their operations and hire workers.” In addition to creating incentives for lenders in the 7(a) program to make loans to Puerto Rico-based businesses, the bill would use other SBA programs to channel capital firms operating in the commonwealth. The legislation would expand the availability of micro-loans for smaller ventures in Puerto Rico. It would also reduce fees and put in place other incentives for lenders to target financing to Puerto Rico through the “504” program, which helps businesses fund capital intensive projects, such as construction and heavy machinery purchases. In Fiscal Year 2015, there were just four 504 lenders in Puerto Rico, and SBA only approved about 64 loans, totaling about $25 million. “These changes are meant to help businesses at different stages of growth,” Velázquez noted. “By adjusting the micro-loan program, we can help the smallest of firms in Puerto Rico seeking assistance as they get off the ground. By creating incentives in the 504 initiative, we can assist larger firms that are looking to make capital intensive, job creating investments.” Beyond the efforts to target capital to small businesses in Puerto Rico, the legislation would make a number of changes to federal procurement policy, seeking to help local firms in Puerto Rico secure work from the U.S. government. For the first time, the bill creates a contracting preference for small businesses in Puerto Rico that are doing work in the commonwealth. There are currently a relatively small number of federal contracts performed in Puerto Rico. Additionally, of the small number of federal contracts performed in Puerto Rico, a substantial percentage– about 40 percent – are performed by firms outside of Puerto Rico. In fact, the total awards to Puerto Rican small businesses declined from about $426 million in FY 2014 to about $342 million in FY 2015. “When small businesses win federal work they often add workers to their payrolls quickly and that creates new jobs and a positive economic ripple effect,” Velázquez noted. “This legislation will help more Puerto Rican firms unlock the federal marketplace and secure opportunities in the government sector.” Finally, the legislation seeks to expand entrepreneurial development services in Puerto Rico. The bill would make federal resources available for a Veterans Business Outreach Center in Puerto Rico to provide counseling and other technical assistance for veterans of the Armed Forces who own a business or are considering launching a new venture. The bill would also help more technology oriented companies in Puerto Rico access the Small Business Innovation Research program, facilitating their participation in federal Research & Development efforts. “Puerto Rico faces severe economic challenges,” Velázquez concluded. “Now, that Puerto Rico has entered Title III and started addressing its debt crisis, we must begin laying the groundwork for long term, sustainable growth. Small businesses must be part of the equation and it is my hope that we can move this bill through the process in a bipartisan fashion to help achieve this goal.” As the top Democrat on the Small Business Committee, Velázquez has made improving and strengthening the Small Business Administration one of her signature priorities. She has worked in a bipartisan manner promoting policies helping small companies succeed. # # #
05.17.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that a Special Counsel has appointed by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein: “I am pleased the Deputy Attorney General appointed a Special Counsel, something I have been calling for since December. Mr. Mueller is well suited for this role and brings the necessary impartiality and commitment to upholding the law. “He certainly has a large task ahead of him. I will be watching carefully to ensure he has the resources he needs and that there is no political interference in his investigation. “The events of the last week have made clear that our nation needs as much credible, independent investigative scrutiny as possible. In that regard, I will continue to call on Speaker Ryan to allow a vote on legislation creating an independent commission to investigate. There are enough threads here to merit multiple investigative tracks. After all, these issues go to the heart of our democracy and we must use every possible tool to unearth all relevant facts.” In December, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel, a request she repeated after Flynn’s resignation in February. She repeated that request as recently as today in a letter to Rosenstein. A .pdf is online here. # # #
05.16.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Reverend Thomas Vose Daily, Bishop Emeritus of Brooklyn: “Bishop Daily led an exemplary life of service, all while enhancing the lives of so many New Yorkers. In a changing time of economic turmoil and racial tension, Bishop Daily was a steady voice for Brooklyn’s poorest residents. A tireless advocate for society’s most vulnerable, our community is forever enriched by his legacy. My thoughts and prayers are with all whose lives were touched by his remarkable presence in our community.” # # #
05.15.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the fire at Beth Hamedrash Hagodol Synagogue: “This sacred place of worship was an important part of our community’s and neighborhood’s local history. Its loss is a saddening turn of events for all New Yorkers and residents of the Lower East Side. “I am grateful that no one was harmed in this fire and that, equally important, no one in nearby buildings, including the nearby senior center, suffered injuries. I thank the first responders and members of the FDNY who reacted swiftly and professionally. My office will remain in contact with the Mayor’s to ensure appropriate resources are being made available to the community.” # # #
05.15.2017	Washington, DC – At a roundtable discussion in Brooklyn Friday, Rep. Nydia M Velazquez (D-NY) heard from Asian American community representatives on their local and national policy priorities. “Asian Americans are a critical component of the economic success of New York City and the vibrancy and diversity of our city,” Velázquez noted. “I am proud that I represent so many New Yorkers of Asian descent.” Today’s event, which was hosted by Velázquez, included a range of Asian American stakeholders. Velázquez and the group strategized on how to best oppose harmful policies being promoted by the Trump Administration. Among other topics, healthcare and the high poverty rate among Asian Americans in New York were touched upon. “Asian Americans face unique health challenges and the Affordable Care Act has helped invest in community resources to help address them,” Velázquez noted. “I’ll continue to oppose Republican efforts to rollback these advances and any cuts to the vital health and human service programs that assist our most vulnerable neighbors.” Immigration issues were also a major point of discussion. As the Trump Administration works to escalate detainment and deportation of undocumented immigrants and target sanctuary cities, Velázquez has been on the front line of resisting. She previously introduced legislation that would prevent the Department of Homeland Security from enlisting local law enforcement to enforce federal immigration laws. She has also authored a bill that would prohibit Immigration and Customs Enforcement from wearing the word “police” on their uniforms, a deceptive practice that often confuses immigrants. “In New York, immigrants are our neighbors and New Yorkers stand up for their neighbors,” said Velázquez. “I will continue fighting to oppose the Trump Administration’s divisive, anti-immigrant policies.” The alarming rise of hate crimes and biased-based attacks was another area of profound concern among participants. Velázquez had previously introduced legislation to establish a national hate crimes hotline. She is currently working to revise, improve and re-introduce that bill. “Our nation and our city’s strength is grounded in our diversity,” Velázquez noted. “No one should be fearful that they may be targeted because of their background and we must be united in opposing hateful acts, while supporting one another.” Today’s event was held in conjunction with Asian American Pacific Islander month, which is observed in May. Participating groups included: Asian American Federation; Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund (AALDEF); CAAAV: Organizing Asian American Communities; Chhaya CDC; Chinese-American Planning Council; New York Immigration Coalition (NYIC); OCA Asian Pacific American Advocates; Sakhi for South Asian Women; Sikh Coalition; and South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT). 維樂貴絲與亞裔利益相關者討論政策問題 華盛頓特區 - 在布魯克林星期五的圓桌討論中，國會議員維樂貴絲（D-NY）就地方和國家的政策重點聽取了亞裔美國社區代表們的意見。 維樂貴絲指出：“亞裔是紐約市經濟成功，城市活力和多樣性的重要組成部分。” “我很自豪我代表了這麼多紐約的亞裔。” 今天由維樂貴絲主辦的活動有一系列亞裔利益的相關者。 維樂貴絲和團隊策劃如何最好地抵制特朗普政府推動的有害政策。其他話題還包括紐約亞裔的醫療保健和高貧困率問題。 維樂貴絲指出：“亞裔面臨著特有的健康挑戰，” 可負擔醫療法案增加了社區資源來幫助解決這個的問題。 “我將繼續反對共和黨的任何意圖。共和黨正在努力遏制我們已有的進展以及削減這些社區的資源。而這些重要的健康和人力服務項目恰恰能夠協助我們最脆弱的社區。” 移民問題也是一個重要的討論點。針對避難城市，特朗普行政當局加大對無證移民的扣留和驅逐出境，維樂貴絲一直處於抵制的第一線。她以前製定了一些法律，防止國土安全部門督察當地執法部門執行聯邦移民法。她還撰寫了一項法案，禁止移民和海關執法人員在其製服上擁有“警察”一詞，這種欺騙性做法往往會混淆移民。 維樂貴絲說：“在紐約，移民是我們的社區的一個組成部分，移民為我們的利益發聲。 “我將繼續反對特朗普政府的分裂和反移民政策。” 仇恨犯罪和有偏見的攻擊也為我們敲響了警鐘。這是參與者深切關注的另一個領域。 維樂貴絲之前已經制定了立法并建立了國家仇恨犯罪熱線。她正在努力修改，改進和重新推出該項法案。 維樂貴絲指出：“我們的國家和我們城市的實力是建立在我們多樣性的基礎上。 “沒有人應該擔心他們的背景會成為目標。我們必須團結一致地反對憎恨的行為，同時相互支持。 今天的活動與五月份慶祝亞太裔傳統月有關聯。參與的團體包括：亞美聯盟 ; 亞美法律辯護及教育基金（AALDEF）; 反亞洲暴力事件委員會：組織亞裔社區﹔南亞裔服務機構﹔華人策劃協會﹔ 紐約移民聯盟（NYIC）; 美國亞太裔倡導組織美華協會﹔南亞女性SAKHI組織﹔錫克聯盟﹔和南亞領導同盟(SAALT) 。 # # #
05.11.2017	Washington, DC – Reps. Nydia M Velazquez (D-NY) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) today wrote the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico urging caution that austerity measures not be taken too far. The text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. May 11, 2017 Mr. José B. Carrión Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Chairman Carrión: We are pleased that last week the Financial Oversight Management Board for Puerto Rico took advantage of the powerful court-supervised restructuring tools provided by the Puerto Rico Oversight Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) of 2016. The Board should seize this as an opportunity to revise the Fiscal Plan in a manner that would ease the burden on working families and students, while also prioritizing economic growth. The Island’s unsustainable debt has been a result of decades of poor government accountability – the overstatement of revenues, the understatement of expenses – and debt-fueled economic promises, as well as the unequal treatment it receives under many federal programs. Making matters worse, the finances of the Commonwealth have been obscured from the general public. Puerto Rico’s coffers are often concealed in hard to understand accounting documents that are inaccessible to a large portion of the population. Unfortunately, we fear the Board has gone too far with the imposed austerity measures. While we can all agree that structural reforms are needed, some of the measures required by the Board to be included in the Fiscal Plan go beyond simple belt-tightening and will undermine growth and consumer demand in an economy that is already reeling. The cuts to the economic engines, such as the $450 million reduction to the University of Puerto Rico system, are counterproductive. That cut alone is more than half of the total funding, $833.9 million, that the university system has received annually in the past four years. The 10-year reduction of $6.1 billion in health care spending is also excessively harsh to the 40 percent of the population that relies on Medicaid as well as the doctors and hospitals that rely on the program for payment. Pensioners face a 10 percent reduction, another severe blow to one of the most vulnerable segments of the population – and one that is a critical source of consumer demand. Taken together, these cuts will result in lower rates of job creation and less money in the pockets of those that fuel the island’s economy. Given the judicial restructuring process that has been initiated, we urge you now to prioritize economic recovery – not austerity. This is not only the right thing to do, but a path of sustainable economic development is beneficial to all stakeholders: pensioners, public servants, students and creditors alike. Moreover, policies that foster economic growth are key to reaching a sustainable public debt load, without the need to issue new debt or renegotiate debt years later – as has been the case for other indebted jurisdictions. It is only fair that after decades of succumbing to unsustainable debt agreements, Puerto Rico refrain from paying debt service for the next five years, or until the economy has returned to growth. This will give the Island the necessary space to implement structural reforms, reorganize expenses, and meet operational obligations. The people of Puerto Rico must be assured that the process unleashed by the adjustment of debts in PROMESA will not be tarnished by creditor influence and that any liquidity influx will not be deviated towards the debt service. We are now at a pivotal time in Puerto Rico’s history. We hope that you will embrace the tools and policies that will lay the foundation for a long and sustainable economic recovery. Any actions that favor creditors will only serve to undermine this recovery, while also escalating social tensions and pushing people to leave the Island. The people of Puerto Rico are resilient, but they need to be treated fairly and equitably. Thank you for your attention to these important issues. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: Members of the Financial Oversight Management Board for Puerto Rico The full letter can be found here. # # #
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M Velazquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding FBI Director Comey's termination: "In December, I wrote outgoing Attorney General Lynch to ask that a Special Counsel be appointed to investigate Russia's meddling in our election. The American people need confidence that a fair, thorough investigation is being conducted. Unfortunately today's turn of events casts great doubt on the effectiveness of the FBI probe. "The Attorney General of the United States recused himself from any investigation into Russian interference of American elections, yet just saw fit to fire the person purportedly investigating. "The Deputy Attorney General must appoint a Special Counsel immediately so the American people's faith in our democratic institutions remains intact." Velázquez’s December letter to Lynch is online here.
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on Trump Care: “Today, House Republicans bowed to pressure from their extremist political base and the Trump White House. Rather than looking out for the people who sent them to Congress, they voted to kick 24 million Americans off their health insurance. "They voted in favor of a crushing age tax that will impose premiums on older Americans five times higher than what others pay for coverage. For those Americans who do retain coverage, they voted to raise premiums and deductibles, increasing out-of-pocket costs for working families. They voted to shorten the life of the Medicare Trust Fund and siphon off resources that seniors depend on for long-term care. "Finally, and perhaps most cruelly, they voted to gut protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. The latest version of this bill – which they voted on without even a Congressional Budget Office analysis – puts another paltry $8 billion toward high-risk pools. Not only has every credible source said this funding is insufficient to protect these Americans, but the approach of high-risk pools have been tried in the past and the result has been the same: health insurance has become out of the reach of those with these conditions. "This is a shameful day in the House of Representatives and the American people will remember this vote. I take some solace in knowing this bill will either be radically modified or stall in the U.S. Senate. Whatever happens next, I will steadfastly oppose those hell-bent on taking healthcare away from working families and seniors.” # # #
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of Jewish American Heritage Month: “During Jewish American Heritage Month, we come together to honor the numerous ways the Jewish people have contributed to the success of our nation. Settling throughout America’s small towns and major cities, Jewish Americans make up a vital part of communities across the country. “New York City has a proud history of being home to one of the most vibrant clusters of Jewish communities in America. From Williamsburg in Brooklyn to the Lower East Side of Manhattan, such neighborhoods served as settling points for Jewish immigrants who fled the oppression abroad to build new lives in our city and country. “Sadly, this year, as we observe Jewish American Heritage Month, we have witnessed a frightening rise in anti-Semitic hate crimes in New York City. We all must voice our collective outrage against these heinous acts. As a city and a nation, our diversity is our strength. “This May, I hope all New Yorkers take the time to honor the flourishing Jewish presence throughout our country. I am proud to represent such diverse and prosperous communities in New York City.” # # #
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after the PROMESA Oversight Board voted for Puerto Rico to enter Title III: “I am pleased the Board has chosen to employ the tools Congress granted it through PROMESA and that Governor Rosselló supported this move. Title III will ensure an orderly debt restructuring that can preserve important government services, protect the pensions of hardworking Puerto Ricans, while unwinding the island’s debt. This is far superior to a chaotic cascade of lawsuits that would have further penalized the Puerto Rican people who have already suffered immensely and only served to enrich wealthy vulture funds that purchased this debt for pennies on the dollar. “During PROMESA negotiations, many creditors claimed that Puerto Rico’s finances were not straightforward and could not be trusted. Like the creditors, the people of Puerto Rico deserve transparency over government finances. It is critical that the Board fully audit all of Puerto Rico’s debt prior to making any restructuring decisions. “Now, all of us in Congress and the Administration must begin the hard work of seeking solutions for Puerto Rico’s long term economic health. Puerto Ricans are American citizens who pay taxes and who have fought and died in our wars. We have a moral obligation to help them secure the future they deserve.” # # #
05.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding expiration of the stay preventing creditors from suing Puerto Rico: “When Congress passed PROMESA, we gave Puerto Rico the tools to begin reversing its downward economic trend. The power to comprehensively restructure 100 percent of its debt is the reason why I voted ‘yes’ on this bill last year. Inconceivably, today, May 2, 2017, the island is on the same path as it was prior to the enactment of the law. This is unconscionable. “Given this harsh reality, it is imperative the Board use this powerful tool and vote to file for a Title III proceeding immediately. And Governor Rosselló must either get on board or get out of the way. “Puerto Rico is no longer shielded from creditors rushing to the courthouse to lay claim to its assets – that includes the beaches, pieces of art, historical furniture and any assets whether they are nailed down or not. The people of Puerto Rico have had enough. The Governor and the Board have a moral imperative to act immediately. If they fail to do so, history will judge them harshly.” # # #
05.01.2017	Decades Old Rules Left Puerto Rican Investors Vulnerable Washington, DC – The House voted today to close a decades-old loophole that has exempted financial institutions operating in Puerto Rico and the territories from the same investor protections that apply on the mainland. By a widespread, bipartisan margin, the House approved H.R. 1366, the U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act. Introduced by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) in January, the bill affords the same financial protections to investors in Puerto Rico that have long been benefitted mainland Americans. “Today, the House acted in the best interest of retirees and individual investors in Puerto Rico,” said Velázquez. “For far too long, Puerto Rican retirees and others have been preyed on by unscrupulous investors who have exploited this disparity in the rules. By passing this measure in the House, we are one step closer to putting an end to these abuses.” Velázquez’s bill extends the Investment Company Act of 1940 to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico and all U.S. territories. It has been publicly reported that some entities in Puerto Rico have used the current law’s loophole to act both as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, and then repackaged those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. While this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to an exemption in the 1940 Company Act, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland. Puerto Rico’s ongoing debt crisis has worsened the situation. Retail investors holding government bonds have suffered significant losses and are claiming that at least one major investment company did not properly disclose the risks of these funds, due to this conflict of interest exemption. At the time the exemption was created in 1940, it was suggested Puerto Rico and other “U.S. possessions” were physically located too far away for the Investment Act protections to be enforced. Since then, both Hawaii and Alaska, which are farther away from the mainland than Puerto Rico, have been granted statehood and the protections in the 1940 Act. Additionally, air travel between the U.S. and Puerto Rico is common and many financial instruments are now traded electronically. “This 1940s era exemption is outdated,” Velázquez noted. “Since the adoption of twenty-first century technology and reliance on regular air travel, geography is no longer a barrier. Under this bill, Puerto Rico’s largest investment companies are prohibited from offering products to retirees without the basic safeguards that already protect millions of U.S. investors.” Velázquez’s legislation, the “U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act”, was twice approved by the House of Representatives last Congress, once as a standalone bill and once as part of a larger package of financial legislation. In both instances, the measure passed with widespread bipartisan support. However, in the waning days of the last Congress, the bill was blocked in the Senate. “Today’s bipartisan action in the House is a huge step for the people of Puerto Rico, and I will keep applying pressure for Senate action,” said Velázquez. Velázquez is the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress and the third most senior Democratic Member of the Financial Services Committee. The legislation will now need to be considered by the U.S. Senate. # # #
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding funding in the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act to bolster Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program: “Puerto Rico is facing a healthcare crisis of historic proportions that is of Washington’s making. Because Puerto Rico receives a lower reimbursement rate than the states, the island’s healthcare system is rapidly running out of money. “The $295 million included in this package is a positive step, but only that – a down payment. Secretary Price has acknowledged that it will require $900 million to truly address the Medicaid shortage facing Puerto Rico. In coming months, we must press for additional funds to make up this shortfall. “Moreover, it is important that the resources contained in this bill go specifically to Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall and not be diverted to other uses. The $295 million this bill appropriates will go to Medicaid – the question is where the funds that are freed up by the $295 million will go. If the Governor and Control Board decide to give that to General Obligation creditors then that is on them – and we will hold them accountable for that decision. But our intention is to help the people of Puerto Rico – not bondholders. “I want to thank Leader Pelosi and Leader Schumer for helping secure these funds. This is a positive, albeit limited, step. Going forward, I will work to see sufficient funds secured to make up this shortfall. It is my hope that Speaker Ryan can be helpful in this endeavor. As he has previously acknowledged, Puerto Ricans are our fellow citizens. They pay taxes and fight in our wars. Congress cannot turn our back on them.” # # #
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor regarding the pressing need for Congress to approve funding to address Puerto Rico’s Medicaid shortfall. The text of her remarks is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, while my Republican colleagues take their sweet time passing a bill to fund the government, Puerto Rico is watching its Medicaid funds evaporate. “In this package, we must provide sufficient resources to address this shortfall – from the funding authorized under the ACA – that is already owed to the Puerto Rican people. “I remind Congress the funding under discussion would close a Medicaid shortage that was created by the unequal treatment of Puerto Rico -- fueling a healthcare crisis of historic proportions. “Last year, Speaker Paul Ryan committed to helping the Puerto Rican people. As he himself recognized -- these are our fellow citizens. “Yes, Mr. President – they ARE American citizens! They have fought, shed blood and given their lives in nearly every major war. Yet they have been treated unfairly for decades. “Donald Trump’s own HHS Secretary recently acknowledged Puerto Rico needs $900 million to fund Medicaid. “For once, I agree with the Secretary! I yield back.” # # #
04.25.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after a court stayed the President’s Executive Order to block funding for cities that limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities: “New York has made clear that we will not be an accomplice to implementing anti-immigrant policies that tear apart families and sow fear in our communities. Today’s ruling is a positive step toward reversing this unlawful Executive Order, which we will continue to resist through every available avenue.” # # #
04.25.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written to New York Police Department Commissioner James O’Neill, praising the Department for declaring certain parts of Chinatown as “permit free zones.” Velázquez’s district, New York’s 7th, includes Manhattan’s Chinatown. “The community at large supports the Precinct’s actions,” the letter reads. “I encourage such efforts to continue, as the benefits are exponential for local business and police-community relations.” The full text of the letter is below. April 24, 2017 The Honorable James P. O’Neill Police Commissioner New York Police Department One Police Plaza New York, NY 10038 Dear Commissioner O’Neill: I write to express my support of the New York Police Department’s (NYPD) 5th Precinct in their work declaring certain areas of Chinatown as “permit free zones.” Over the course of the past few weeks, areas around Mott Street, Bayard and Mulberry Streets have been targeted areas of parking enforcement. Specifically, officers have posted notices on lamp posts and have affixed flyers on all parked cars that use “placard” parking privileges. In some cases, the Department has enforced this permit free zone policy by towing repeat offenders. The Department’s policy has been largely applauded by the community, as it has opened up scarce on-street parking that was previously inaccessible. The 5th Precinct’s work has made it easier for local business owners to receive their deliveries and has, in some cases, increased business sales. In summary, this approach has not gone unnoticed—and the community at large supports the Precinct’s actions. I encourage such efforts to continue, as the benefits are exponential for local business and police-community relations. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress cc: Tommy M. Ng, Deputy Inspector, NYPD 5th Precinct 維樂貴絲發聲支持“無執照區” 華盛頓特區–國會議員維樂貴絲 (D-NY) 今天寫信給紐約警察局局長詹姆斯·奧尼爾，讚揚該部門宣布唐人街的某些地區為“無執照區”。 信中寫道：“整個社區都支持警察局第五分局的行動。”“我鼓勵這樣的努力能繼續下去，因為對當地的商業以及警察局與社區關係的利益都有幫助。” 這封信的全文如下。 2017年4月24日 尊敬的詹姆斯·奧尼爾 行政長官 紐約警察局 One Police Plaza New York, NY 10038 尊敬的奧尼爾行政長官: 我寫信表達我對紐約警察局（NYPD）第五分局的支持。警察局第五分局宣布唐人街某些地區為“無執照區”。在過去幾週內，勿街，擺也街和茂比利街已經成為停車執法的目標區域。具體來說，警察在燈柱上張貼了通知，並在所有使用“標語牌”停車特權的車上貼了傳單。在某些情況下，警察局第五分局會通過拖走再次違規的車輛來執行這個無執照區的政策。 該部門的政策在很大程度上受到社會的表揚和支持，因為它給於了以前無法進入路邊停車的車輛更多的位置。第五分區的工作使當地企業主更容易收到遞送的貨物，並在某些情況下增加了業務銷售。 總而言之，這種方法得到了社區的關注， 並且整個社區都支持警察局第五分局的行動。我鼓勵這樣的努力能繼續下去，因為對當地的商業以及警察局與社區關係的利益都有幫助。 真誠的， Nydia M. Velázquez 國會議員 cc：吳銘恆，副督察，紐約警察局第五分局 Full letter here.
04.12.2017	Calls for Meeting with CEO New York, NY –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote the following letter to the President and CEO of United Airlines. The letter is also available online here. April 12, 2017 Mr. Oscar Muñoz President and CEO United Airlines 233 S. Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 Dear Mr. Muñoz: I am writing to express the profound dismay of my constituents regarding the incident on United Express Flight 3411 on April 9. As you may know, my district, New York’s 7th, includes Manhattan’s Chinatown and sizeable Asian populations in Brooklyn’s Sunset Park. Many residents of New York’s 7th Congressional District have suggested to my staff that they believe Dr. Dao was targeted and forcibly removed from the flight because he is of Asian descent. Some of my constituents have heard from their concerned loved ones in China and across the Pacific Rim who have encouraged them not to travel on United. While I understand that United is currently conducting its own review of how this incident unfolded and policies regarding passenger removal, I believe this situation raises important questions that need to be addressed quickly. To that end, I would ask whether you would be willing to meet with me and discuss these matters. Specifically, I would like to know: Does United have in place cultural sensitivity training? If so, when did the crew on Flight 3411 receive this training? The latest news reports indicate passengers were instructed to deplane to make space for airline personnel. Were other options explored for transporting staff without having to remove fare paying passengers from the plane? As this situation might have been avoided entirely if other passengers had previously volunteered their seats, I would like to know more about incentives United provides customers willing to volunteer their seats when flights are overbooked or additional seats are needed to transport airline personnel. Is it normal practice for airline security staff to be contacted when passengers resist deplaning? What were airline security personnel told about the situation before approaching Dr. Dao? What reasons were they given for his forcible removal? Was Dr. Dao passive in his resistance to airline personnel or did he actively resist leaving his seat? Video on social media strongly suggest the former. No one should be fearful that by boarding a commercial airline flight they are putting themselves in jeopardy at the hands of airline security. For these reasons, I would ask for a meeting with you in either New York City or Washington, D.C. to discuss these and other questions. I look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez 國會議員維樂貴絲要求聯合航空公司答復 要求與CEO會面 紐約 - 維樂貴絲（D-NY）今天寫信給聯合航空公司總裁兼首席執行官。這封信也可在網上看到： 2017年4月12日 奧斯卡·穆尼奧斯先生 總裁兼首席執行官 美國聯合航空公司 233 S. Wacker Drive Chicago，IL 60606 尊敬的穆尼奧斯先生： 我在次寫信表達了我的選民們對四月九日聯合快速航班3411號事件的深切沮喪。 你可能知道，我的選區，紐約第七選區，包括曼哈頓的唐人街和布魯克林的日落公園有相當大的亞裔人口。紐約第七國會選區的許多居民都曾向我的工作人員提議。他們認為陶醫生是因為其亞洲血統而被針對性地從飛機中強行離開。在中國和跨越太平洋沿岸的人們鼓勵我的一些選民不要去乘坐聯合航空。 雖然我已了解到聯合航空目前正在對這一事件展開獨自的審查，以及關於乘客離開的政策。我相信這種情況需要迅速的解決。 為此，我要問你是否願意和我會面並討論這些事情。 具體來說，我想知道： 1．聯合航空是否有文化敏感性培訓？如果是這樣，3411號航班人員是什麼時候接受這個訓練的？ 2．最新的消息顯示，為了讓航空人員有座位，乘客們被指令離開飛機。航班人員有沒有尋找其他的方法，而不必在飛機上強令讓已支付機票的乘客們離開？ 3．如果其他乘客自願讓出座位，這樣的情況是可能完全避免的。當乘客們知道還需要額外的座位給航空公司人員，我想了解更多關於聯合航空公司在航班超量預訂時願意自願乘坐座位的激勵措施。 4．當乘客抵制后，航空公司的保安人員做法是合理的嗎？在這種情況下，當航空公司的保安人員在接近陶醫生之前是如何告知的？他們強迫陶醫生離開的原因是什麼？ 5．陶醫生是否消極的抵制航班員工，還是積極的抵制離開座位？社交媒體的視頻裡強烈顯示前者。 當乘坐商業航空飛機的時候，在航空公司的保安人員手裡，沒有人應該擔心自己會處於危險之中。由於這些原因，我要求在紐約市或華盛頓特區與您會面，以及討論這些相關的問題。 我期待您的即時回復。 真誠的， 維樂貴絲 A copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
04.07.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the military strike in Syria: “The use of chemical weapons in Syria must be condemned in the strongest terms. There is no moral or legal justification for those atrocities. “I do have concerns that additional U.S. military action could inflame the conflict and further destabilize the region. The President owes Congress and the American people a clear explanation of what his strategy is moving forward. "Moreover, the President’s decision to act unilaterally raises questions related to Authorization of Military Force. Under our Constitution, only Congress can declare war and any more military action must be considered by Congress. “Finally, I would note that we cannot turn our back on the refugees fleeing that part of the world. I will continue pressing the Administration to rethink its policies blocking refugees seeking entry to the United States.” # # #
04.07.2017	Measure Would Expand Capital Options for Growing Firms Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation sponsored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) that would help funnel investment capital to fast growing startups. As the Ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Velázquez has long made entrepreneurs’ access to capital a priority. “Fast growing startups and small businesses drive growth and create jobs in our nation,” said Velázquez. “By channeling capital to them, we can create greater economic opportunity for all Americans.” Velázquez’s bill would allow venture funds that often provide seed capital to small companies to draw in more investors. The Investment Company Act of 1940 currently limits the number of investors in a venture fund to no more than 100 individuals, before the fund must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Velázquez’s bill will allow up to 250 accredited investors to invest in a venture fund without having to register, meaning more equity investment is available for small businesses. “The limit of 100 individual investors restricts the number of individuals that can invest in small businesses and startups – and that means less opportunity for our entrepreneurs,” Velázquez noted. “By easing this restriction, we’ll help more Americans pursue dreams of business ownership and more companies to scale up and hire people.” Many of these investors pool their money together either in local or national groups. More recently, many have started using on-line crowdfunding platforms in order to funnel more capital to small businesses and startups. Importantly, these types of funds are often a good fit for women and minority-owned firms seeking investment capital. “This bill will mean that businesses that have traditionally struggled to secure capital will have more options available to them,” noted Velázquez. “Small business ownership among minorities and women is a proven path out of poverty and this bill can help replicate that success.” A number of organizations including the Angel Capital Association and the Internet Association endorsed the measure. The bill has moved through the legislative process with strong bipartisan support every step of the way. Last month, the bill was approved by the Financial Services Committee with a broad bi-partisan vote of 54-2. The same day, the Senate Banking Committee passed its bi-partisan companion version. The legislation would next need to be considered on the Senate floor. # # #
04.06.2017	Washington, DC- Today, seventy-four Democratic members of Congress sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) urging immediate action to prevent the nearly 1 million residents of Puerto Rico who rely on Medicaid from losing their coverage. Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program receives a lower reimbursement rate than Mainland states and as a result relies on a temporary federal supplemental grant which is set to run out by the end of this year. “Puerto Rico is already experiencing dire economic conditions and a failure to address the Medicaid cliff will be a devastating step towards further havoc,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who spearheaded the letter. “Not only will it exacerbate the fragile economy of Puerto Rico, we are talking about a tremendous amount of people who will lose their health insurance. With a total population of around 3.5 million residents in Puerto Rico, the reality of 1 million losing coverage is unconscionable.” The letter highlights the creation of PROMESA’s Puerto Rican Task Force which led bipartisan legislation to address the Medicaid cliff. In the meantime, the letter asks for a short term immediate solution to ensure full fiscal year funding for 2018 to circumvent the impending Medicaid cliff. The text of the letter is below: Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to urge immediate congressional action to address the funding crisis facing Puerto Rico’s health care system. As you know, Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program receives a lower reimbursement rate than mainland states. This low rate is being temporarily supplemented by a federal grant that expires soon. Based on projections provided by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the island’s supplemental funding will be depleted by the end of this year. The Medicaid program is already experiencing cash flow problems. Congress’ failure to address this funding gap will not only exacerbate Puerto Rico’s already fragile fiscal condition but will deny health care coverage to nearly 1 million residents on the island. Not addressing the cliff will also result in additional outmigration to the mainland, where the cost of providing Medicaid is much greater than on the island. We have already seen unprecedented numbers of Puerto Rican residents, including health care providers, leave the island. The Puerto Rican Task Force established by PROMESA reached bipartisan consensus in support of fiscally-responsible legislation to address the impending Medicaid cliff. Enacting such legislation immediately is essential to provide Puerto Rico’s Medicaid agency with the certainty it needs to engage with the managed care organizations that operate the island’s Medicaid program. While we believe that a long-term solution for Puerto Rico’s historically inadequate federal Medicaid funding is long overdue, we want to stress our support for an immediate short-term solution to ensure full fiscal year financing for 2018 to avoid the Medicaid cliff. It is time for Congress to act – and act soon – as Puerto Ricans have suffered far too long. We are gravely concerned about the implications of the cliff and, for this reason, believe that it must have Congress’ full attention. The risks are too great to wait. Therefore, we urge you to make Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico a top priority and promptly bring legislation to the House floor as soon as possible. Sincerely, Download the full letter here. # # #
04.06.2017	Washington, DC - With tensions escalating between immigrant communities and federal immigration enforcement agencies, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced a bill to prohibit immigration officers from wearing any clothing bearing the word “police”. This bill would apply to entities like Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Patrol (CBP). With images and video circulating of ICE agents identifying as police while conducting raids, the bill has the potential to make law enforcement safer and more transparent by prohibiting a widely used, deceptive practice. “Not only are ICE raids an unconscionable attack on our most vulnerable communities, any attempt by immigration officers to deceivingly pose as local police ought to be prohibited,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “After holding various ‘Know Your Rights’ workshops in my district, I’ve heard firsthand from families who fear reporting crime or engaging with the police due to the potential of getting caught up with immigration agents. This only makes our communities less safe.” Due to the Trump Administration’s emphasis on targeting undocumented immigrants and changes in the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) detainment and deportation policies, immigrant communities are living in heightened fear of deportation and detention. By visibly identifying with the word “police”, immigration officers compromise the public’s ability to distinguish between local and federal officers. The bill has garnered strong support from prominent immigrant rights and advocacy groups. “We applaud this proposal to prevent ICE from using the word ‘police’ on their agents’ vests. For years, ICE has tried to confuse and scare community members by making people believe they are police officers, often trying to force their way into families’ homes without a warrant signed by a judge,” said Javier H. Valdés, Co-Executive Director of Make the Road New York. “Having the word ‘police’ on their vests is a central part of that strategy to enter people’s homes without warrants to tear families apart. Not only does this lead to the violation of people’s rights and family separation—it also makes everyone less safe, as it reduces trust in local law enforcement when people think that the police are immigration agents.” “Immigrant Defense Project (IDP) has monitored ICE raids for years and applauds Congresswoman Velázquez for authoring this critical legislation,” said Mizue Aizeki, Deputy Director, Immigrant Defense Project. “It will help mitigate the abuses related to ICE's widespread tactic of presenting as local police to enter homes without judicial warrants or set up meetings with individuals only to detain them. In IDP's Defend Against ICE Raids & Community Arrests toolkit, created with the Center for Constitutional Rights, we outline how these frequently used 'ruses' weaken trust between vulnerable people and local police; traumatize children, partners, and others who unwittingly turn their loved ones over for deportation; and ultimately, make communities less safe as people are driven away from our justice system. We encourage her colleagues in Congress to champion it.” Council on American-Islamic Relations National Executive Director Nihad Awad said, “There is a chilling effect on the ability of immigrant communities to build trust and call on local law enforcement for help when federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers interchangeably identify themselves as "police" or ICE. The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) strongly supports Congresswoman Velázquez's legislative solution to assure immigrant communities that they are actually engaging with local law enforcement and remove the fear of being profiled or deported.” “The ability of an ICE or CBP agent to pose as local police officers is a flaw in our system and that’s why I’ve introduced this bill. Instead of keeping our communities safe, this practice fuels fear, undermines trust and ultimately further marginalizes our immigrant neighbors,” added Velázquez. This bill has been co-sponsored by Reps. Juan Vargas (D-CA), Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Marc Veasey (D-TX), James McGovern (D-MA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Jose E. Serrano (D-NY). The bill has been endorsed by Church World Service, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Make the Road New York, South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), New York Communities for Change, Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem, Educational Alliance, Hamilton-Madison House, Cabrini Immigrant Services of NYC, Asian American Federation, Grand Street Settlement, New York Immigration Coalition, Fujian Consolidated Benevolent Association USA, Chinese Chamber of Commerce, United Mei Hua Alliance Gross Association, Fujian Association in USA, Central American Legal Assistance, Los Sures Social Services, Career Mobility Partnership, formerly known as Chinatown Manpower Project, CMP, Council of Peoples Organization, Center for Popular Democracy, Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), DRUM - Desis Rising Up & Moving, Kids in Need of Defense (KIND), MinKwon Center for Community Action, University Settlement, OCA-NY and Asian Pacific American Advocates. # # #
04.06.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on news that Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, has recused himself from the Committee’s investigation of Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election: “Mr. Nunes’ decision to step aside is long overdue. Unfortunately, due to his repeated inappropriate actions and coziness with the Trump Administration, the House Intelligence Committee’s investigation has become a sad farce. “The American people need confidence that their democracy is intact and that requires an independent, unbiased and thorough investigation. It is time for the Department of Justice to appoint a Special Counsel who can unearth all the facts related to Russia’s involvement in the election and the Trump Administration’s ties to that country.” In December of 2016, in a letter to outgoing Attorney General Lynch, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel to investigate. She repeated that request when news broke that Attorney General Sessions may have misled Congress during his confirmation hearings about his own meetings with Russia. # # #
04.05.2017	Representatives Carolyn Maloney and Nydia Velázquez are hosting a joint town hall to discuss the latest federal policies affecting New York City, hear from a panel policy experts and take your questions. The Representatives will joined by: James Parrott, Ph.D., former Chief Economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, to discuss how President Trump's budget proposal will affect New York City Marc Jahr, Co-Chair of the New York Housing Conference Board of Directors, to discuss the latest on affordable housing Ruthie Epstein, Senior Policy Advisor, New York Civil Liberties Union, to discuss federal immigration policy Following remarks by the Representatives and panelists, members of the public are invited to ask questions. RSVP's are encouraged for planning purposes, but are not required. Seating will be on a first-come, first serve basis. A link with more information and to register can be found here.
04.05.2017	Meeting Comes Amid Rise in Hate Crimes and Vandalism New York, NY –Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez along with representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will host a workshop Friday afternoon at 1:00 p.m. to empower communities and nonprofits to understand the resources available to them through the Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP). The workshop comes in the wake of a recent rise in hate crimes within the New York City Metropolitan area. Over a month and a half in 2016 there were thirty-one hate crimes reported and during the same period in 2017, fifty-six were reported. The NSGP program offers the tools to prevent and recover from biased-based crimes and acts of vandalism. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) WHAT: Workshop to Understand the Purposes and Goals of the Nonprofit Security Grant Program WHEN: Friday, April 7th, 1:00 p.m. WHERE: The Museum at Eldridge Street 12 Eldridge Street New York, NY 10002 # # #
04.04.2017	Washington, DC — Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today marked Equal Pay Day by cosponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and guarantee that women can challenge pay discrimination and hold employers accountable. Velázquez joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) in cosponsoring the legislation in the House of Representatives. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate. “For working women, Equal Pay Day is a reminder of the reality of being treated as second-class citizens. Every day that women work just as hard as their male counterparts for less pay is a day we prolong this injustice,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “As Ranking Member of the House Small Business Committee, I know the tremendous impact that women have in the workplace. I support the Paycheck Fairness Act because when women succeed, so do families and entire communities.” “Equal Pay Day falls 94 days into 2017, which is 94 days too late for millions of American women and their families. Every year, I hope we never have to recognize this day, and though we have made some progress in closing the wage gap, it still exists for far too many,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Women and men in the same job should have the same pay, and the Paycheck Fairness Act is a strong step forward in ensuring that we close the wage gap once and for all. This legislation addresses the issue in a comprehensive and sensible manner, and it is long overdue. President Trump campaigned on the promise that he would fight for American workers, including women, and I strongly encourage him to support this bill and make equal pay a reality.” “I’m proud to sponsor the Paycheck Fairness Act with Congresswoman DeLauro to make sure every woman working to support her family or herself is being paid the same as her male coworkers for the same work,” said Senator Murray. “At a time when many families are struggling to make ends meet, we should be working together to make sure women are not being left behind. This shouldn’t be a partisan issue, and I’m proud to join my colleagues to keep up the fight to ensure that all the hardworking women across this country are getting paid what they’ve earned.” Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still make only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African American women making 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making only 54 cents, on average, compared with white men. In New York, women overall make 89 cents for every dollar when compared to men, only slightly higher than the national average. However, for women of color, the numbers remain quite similar to the national average. Black women make 66 cents, Latinas make 56 cents, and Asian women make 82 cents when compared to every dollar earned by white men. The Paycheck Fairness Act would close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees. # # #
03.31.2017	Washington, DC –Researchers at Pace University have been awarded a $378,520 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that will allow them to shed light on the primary causes of hearing loss and deafness. “Hearing loss is a devastating and often debilitating condition that adversely affects too many Americans,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “I applaud the groundbreaking work conducted by researchers at Pace University and I’m confident these federal funds will go a long way in helping us better understand and treat hearing loss.” Over 30 million individuals in the United States alone suffer from hearing loss. In New York State, 185,731 individuals, approximately 1.5% of the state’s population, suffers from some sort of hearing impairment. For many of those who suffer from hearing loss, the underlying cause is due to the death or loss of sensory hair cells within the ear. In humans, these hair cells cannot regenerate, while in non-mammalian species including fish and reptiles, the cells can regenerate. Despite existing research, these differences are not yet well understood. This grant will provide researchers with the resources they need to better understand the distinction between mammals and non-mammals, a crucial step to developing possible regenerative therapies. Founded in 1906, Pace University is known for its commitment to advancing liberal education while providing students and faculty with the unique opportunities offered in New York City. In this regard, Pace fosters a sense of community within Lower Manhattan while also preparing students to be citizens of the world. Pace recently received a $3.1 million endowment to build new state-of-the-art research facilities on their New York City campus. “I am proud to have an institution like Pace University in our community,” noted Congresswoman Velázquez. “Many of us know someone who is hearing impaired and not only will this research contribute to the scientific field, it has the potential to help treat our friends, family, and neighbors who are currently suffering from hearing loss.” The grant was awarded by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders at HSS. HHS grants are dedicated to supporting research efforts in order to protect the public health and promote scientific breakthroughs. # # #
03.30.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor regarding the pressing need for an independent Special Counsel to investigate Russia’s intervention in the election: “Mr. Speaker, Russia’s efforts to influence our election constitute a direct assault on our democracy. These alarming events must be thoroughly investigated. In particular, we must determine if any Americans collaborated in these attacks – and are legally culpable. “Sadly, the House Intelligence Committee Chairman is either unwilling or incapable of conducting a fair investigation. How can Mr. Nunes run this investigation if he is briefing the President BEFORE talking with members of his Committee? How can he secretly be in meetings with so-called ‘sources’ at the White House? “Mr. Speaker, the American people need to know their democracy is intact – and that requires a full, fair, impartial investigation! Since December I’ve repeatedly called for the Department of Justice to appoint a Special Counsel. I’ve also cosponsored legislation to create a bipartisan Commission to investigate. The bottom line is this – Chairman Nunes has lost all credibility. He must recuse himself. “We need a real investigation! Appoint a Special Counsel - now!” Video clip can be downloaded here. # # #
03.30.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) announced that Henry Street Settlement has been awarded funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) for important local community work. The organization has received a grant of $360,000 to embark on a multi-platform project dedicated to sharing and preserving the history of Henry Street’s commitment to the wellbeing of New Yorkers. “Henry Street Settlement is an important community anchor in the Lower East Side, providing a place for residents to seek support and connect with one another,” said Velázquez. “I have had the pleasure to work with Henry Street over the years when they’ve hosted town halls, facilitated summer employment programs for students, and organized the community to rally around their shared goals.” Henry Street serves over 60,000 New Yorkers a year, many of whom rely on the organization for health care support services, senior services, employment services, arts and educational programming and transitional housing support. The grant will provide funding for a variety of new programs including: a web-based exhibit of educational materials for students; technology and programming for a mobile walking tour through the streets of the Lower East Side; the expansion of public programs with partner organizations; and a permanent exhibit of Henry Street’s history within their 1830s Federal style townhouse. “The funding provided by NEH will reaffirm and support Henry Street’s longstanding commitment to bringing the humanities to underserved communities,” said Velázquez. “Henry Street has a long track record of expanding educational opportunity in our neighborhood and this grant will help further that mission.” ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order rolling back climate change policies at the Environmental Protection Agency: “Donald Trump’s Administration appears dead set on rolling back environmental progress our nation achieved under President Obama. New Yorkers are acutely aware of climate change’s dangers and have seen the devastating effect from extreme weather like Hurricane Sandy. We will not stand idly by as President Trump takes steps enabling big polluters to ravage our planet and jeopardize our children’s futures. All of us must raise our voice in resistance to this ill-conceived policy.” # # #
03.28.2017	Measure Would Exempt Agency from January Trump Order Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation aimed at ensuring adequate staffing levels at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Her bill, H.R.1716, would exempt the agency from a Presidential Memorandum signed by President Trump in January that froze staffing levels at all federal agencies. “President Trump’s hiring freeze makes for bad policy all around, but is particularly damaging when it comes to our environment,” Velázquez said. “We need EPA to be fully staffed so they can protect our air and water and administer programs that keep local communities healthy.” The EPA’s mission is protecting the environment and human health. It develops and enforces policies stemming from environmental statutes enacted by Congress. Additionally, half of the agency’s budget goes into grants that are distributed to non-profit organizations, state environmental work and educational institutions focused on science-based research. “Already, the Trump Administration seems dead set on rolling back environmental protections and progress and we must resist these efforts.” Velázquez noted. “This hiring freeze at EPA is just one way the Administration is seeking to undermine environmental protections and this move should be immediately rescinded.” Velázquez’s district, New York’s 7th, includes parts of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. The district includes three environmentally damaged sites that have been targeted for cleanup under EPA’s National Priorities List or “Superfund” program. Gowanus Canal, Newtown Creek and Wolff-Alport Chemical Company are all located within the 7th district. The Gowanus and Newtown waterways have endured years of pollution and sewage runoff. Wolff-Alport is a former industrial site that has exhibited higher than normal levels of radiation. “The Superfund program allows us to turn around local environmental sore spots, reduce public health risk by removing contaminants, and enables commerce to thrive in previously blighted areas,” Velázquez noted. “Importantly, this initiative applies the principle of ‘polluter pays’ so cleanup costs are borne by those responsible for environmental harm. However, for this program to work, EPA needs adequate staff and I’m concerned Trump’s hiring freeze could hamstring the Superfund program.” Velázquez’s legislation has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for consideration. The measure is cosponsored by nine other House Members. Velázquez had previously introduced a measure that would exempt from the hiring freeze the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). # # #
03.27.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in response to comments by Attorney General Sessions on “sanctuary cities”: “Attorney General Sessions’ comments reflect this Administration’s backward thinking on immigration. Cooperation between immigrant communities and local law enforcement makes cities safer and, by chilling that relationship, this ill-advised policy would only serve to make Americans less safe. “Not only is this strategy an affront to our values and counterproductive, but it is legally questionable. Severing funding to strong arm local compliance with federal dictates raises significant constitutional concerns. We must work at all levels of government to resist efforts like these. New Yorkers do not want their city to be an accomplice in enforcing this Administration’s unjust immigration policies.” # # #
03.24.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after it was announced that Republicans were pulling their “TrumpCare” legislation from the floor: “From the beginning, TrumpCare was a bad piece of legislation that would have ripped away healthcare from 24 million Americans, imposed an age tax on older healthcare recipients and removed many essential health services from insurance plans. The American people made clear that they opposed this bill by wide margins and I am relieved this measure was stopped in its tracks. “I can only hope now that the Administration and the Republican Leadership recommit to working with Democrats on other issues going forward. Building consensus is the only way to address the pressing matters facing our nation. However, if Republicans continue a go-it-alone, slash-and-burn approach to legislation, I suspect they will see this same result frequently in the future. “I thank all those who raised their voices on behalf of the 24 million Americans whose coverage was in danger. I stand ready to work on sensible, bipartisan solutions to improve and strengthen our healthcare system.” # # #
03.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor in opposition to the Republican healthcare plan or “TrumpCare”: “Mr. Speaker, today, House Republicans are preparing to vote to rip away healthcare from 24 million Americans – 2.7 million of them in New York. In my district, 122,000 people would lose coverage – including 12,700 children. “Those who do retain coverage will pay more for less – with deductibles and premiums skyrocketing. “This is what House Republicans plan to put on the floor today. It is a plan that benefits the ‘healthy and the wealthy’ – while hurting everyone else. If you have a preexisting condition and your coverage lapses – under TrumpCare get ready to pay more. “Are you a senior? Good luck affording medical coverage if TrumpCare becomes law. You’re going to pay insurance companies five times more than younger people! “Mr. Speaker, the American people see this for what it is – a direct assault on the vulnerable, in order to give a tax cut to the wealthy and the healthy! Reject TrumpCare!” Video of Ms. Velázquez’s remarks are available online here. # # #
03.21.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Peter T. Lau: “Peter Lau was an instrumental and beloved part of the community. Known to many as the face of the first pharmacy in Chinatown, Mr. Lau often selflessly took the opportunity to educate his community about signing up for health insurance and the importance of protecting pharmaceutical benefits. “An exemplary public servant, Mr. Lau has received numerous awards and was the first Chinese-American recipient of the highest award in the pharmacy profession, the Bowl of Hygeia Community Service Award from the Pharmacists Society of the State of New York. “Mr. Lau was a longtime board member of Chinatown Partnership, which formed in 2006 and brought together small business and community groups focused on rebuilding Chinatown after 9/11. “My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Lisa, daughters, Allison and Jessica, and all who loved him. His invaluable contributions to the Chinatown community will never be forgotten.” # # #
03.21.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation aimed at ensuring there are adequate staffing levels at key agencies that protect the public health. Her bill, H.R. 1561, would exempt the Centers for the Centers for Disease Control and Protection (CDC) and the National Institute of Health (NIH) from a hiring freeze instituted when President Trump signed an Executive Order in late January. “The CDC and the NIH perform vital public health missions and artificially reducing their staffing levels endangers the public health,” Velázquez said. “President Trump’s hiring freeze for all federal agencies makes for bad, shortsighted policy, but these agencies in particular need to be operating at maximum capacity to prevent disease outbreaks and pursue cutting edge research.” CDC’s primary responsibility is the control and prevention of disease in the US and internationally. The agency directs resources toward developing and applying disease control and prevention. It especially focuses its attention on infectious disease, food borne pathogens and environmental health. The agency has been particularly out front in battling the Zika Virus and played an active role combatting the Ebola outbreak of 2014-2016. “At a time when Zika has been detected in 49 states and infected tens of thousands in Puerto Rico, we need CDC’s services more than ever,” Velázquez noted. “It would be the height of irresponsibility to hamper the agency with staffing restrictions, right now.” The second agency exempted from the hiring freeze under Velázquez’s legislation is the NIH, the primary U.S. entity responsible for biomedical and health-related research. NIH conducts its own research through its Intramural Research Program (IRP) and provides major biomedical research funding to non-NIH research facilities through its Extramural Research Program. The IRP is the largest biomedical research institution in the world. “NIH has been at the forefront of developing innovative new therapies and securing groundbreaking advances in areas like cancer research,” Velázquez noted. “Ensuring NIH can continue this lifesaving work is a moral imperative and that includes ending this ill-conceived hiring freeze.” Velázquez’s legislation has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for consideration. The measure is cosponsored by seven other House Members.
03.20.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement regarding FBI Director Comey’s testimony before the House Intelligence Committee: “Director Comey today made it clear how many troubling, unanswered questions remain about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. We now know that the FBI is specifically looking into whether the Trump campaign or other Trump associates were communicating or collaborating with Russian officials. These are profoundly disturbing charges that go to the heart of our democracy. “Today’s hearing also made clear that Trump’s claim that he was wiretapped or under other surveillance is a falsehood and cynical attempt to distract from the real concerns at hand. “As I have said previously, we need a Special Counsel to fully and thoroughly investigate these issues. I again call on the Department of Justice to appoint a Special Counsel to follow the facts wherever they lead.” In December, Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel to look into Russian hacking of the election. She reiterated her call for a Special Counsel after General Flynn resigned and when it was revealed that the Attorney General may have perjured himself during his confirmation hearings. In addition to calling for a Special Counsel, the Congresswoman has cosponsored legislation that would create a bipartisan panel to investigate.
03.17.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding two Courts ruling against the President’s revised Muslim Ban Executive Order: “At its heart, this policy is an affront to our nation’s values. No matter how the President’s advisers try to dress it up, this remains a flagrantly unconstitutional form of rank discrimination. The President’s own hateful rhetoric from the campaign has provided multiple Courts with enough evidence to rule against the Administration. It is my hope that the President will now abandon this ill-conceived policy, but if he continues pursuing it, we will continue fighting it at every turn.” In January, when the first Executive Order was being implemented, Velázquez went to John F. Kennedy International Airport where several individuals were being detained under the Order. One of those travelers, an Iraqi interpreter who had previously worked with the U.S. government in Iraq and who was released after her intervention, was Velázquez’s guest to the President’s speech to Congress in February.
03.16.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the release of President Trump’s budget today: “Donald Trump campaigned on promises of standing for working people. This budget makes a mockery of those claims and makes clear where the Administration’s real priorities lie. “Among other travesties, this budget would eviscerate the Environmental Protection Agency, reducing its resources by 31% and hobbling it from enforcing rules that keep our water safe to drink and our air breathable. Shortchanging the agency in this regard would hamper its ability to tackle the growing dangers of climate change. “For New Yorkers, this budget would undercut support for vital housing services. By slashing the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Administration would harm the New York City Housing Authority and prevent it from making badly needed infrastructure repairs and upgrades. For the 400,000 New Yorkers that call NYCHA units home, this underfunding constitutes a direct assault on their housing and quality of life. The budget even eliminates the Community Development Block Grant initiative, slashing support for programs like ‘Meals on Wheels’ that benefit some of our most vulnerable neighbors. “In almost every significant domestic policy area, the Trump budget would make life harder for working families. Public education funding would be reduced. Transportation services would be scaled back or become more expensive. Internationally, by weakening programs at the State Department, the Budget would jeopardize our national security. “At the end of the day, this budget is an attack on the values that Americans hold dear. In that regard, I am glad that several Republican Members of Congress have already called it ‘dead on arrival.’ I plan to hold them to that and work with all my colleagues to fund priorities important to all Americans.”
03.15.2017	Washington, DC –Democratic Members of the New York City Congressional delegation are calling on the Trump Administration to spare the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) from significant cuts in President Trump’s budget. In a letter to HUD Secretary Carson and Office of Management and Budget Director Mulvaney, the Members of Congress expressed concern that preliminary budget documents suggest the Administration will propose a 13% reduction in HUD’s public housing operating fund and a 66% reduction in HUD’s public housing capital fund. “Rather than inflating our military budget by slashing programs important to working families and seniors, we need to be investing in quality, affordable housing for all Americans,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) who led the delegation in writing the letter. “We will stand united in pressing the Administration to make wise investments in housing, not cut vital services.” On March 3rd, Velázquez hosted a strategy breakfast with New York State Assembly leaders, New York City Councilmembers, and other city officials to discuss how to preserve funding for NYCHA. President Trump’s initial budget outlines is expected to be released Thursday. The text of the letter is below. March 15, 2017 Honorable Dr. Ben Carson Secretary United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director United States Office of Management of Budget 725 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 Dear Secretary Carson and Director Mulvaney: We write to you on a matter of pressing concern for the New York City Housing Authority (“NYCHA”) and New York City in general. NYCHA is the largest public housing authority in the nation and plays a pivotal role in New York City’s affordable housing plan. NYCHA provides safe and affordable housing to more than 400,000 working individuals and families in 328 public housing developments across the City’s five boroughs. President Donald Trump’s proposed budget cuts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) which have been widely reported and not yet refuted by the administration, threaten the very future of the housing authority and the quality and availability of housing for more than 400,000 New Yorkers that call it home. Given the inveterate and increasing difficulty of finding an affordable place to live in a crowded, growing and vibrant place like New York City, where our future economic growth is directly connected to our ability to adequately provide affordable housing for our working families and seniors, now is not a time to disinvest further and risk losing valuable affordable housing in New York City and across the country. Due to years of underinvestment, recent estimates indicate that NYCHA has a $17 billion backlog in needed major capital improvements and repairs. As a result, far too many residents residing in approximately 178,000 NYCHA apartments are struggling with increasingly sub-standard living conditions. Excessive moisture in NYCHA buildings due to leaky roofs, crumbling bricks, and old piping has led to a severe mold problem in NYCHA units. This is particularly problematic for residents with asthma, as these conditions may aggravate symptoms, which has been found at a higher rate among public housing residents than other populations of the city. In fact, one study found that asthma prevalence among low-income children is nearly two times higher than rates among other children across New York City. Preliminary budget documents reveal the White House is considering more than $6 billion in cuts to HUD, and, while we understand that President Trump’s official budget request will not be available until later this week, we believe that the President’s proposed increase to defense spending—a reportedly historic $54 billion increase—should not come at the expense HUD’s public and other affordable housing programs. Further review of these preliminary budget documents indicates an approximately 13% reduction in HUD’s public housing operating fund and an 66% reduction in HUD’s public housing capital fund. HUD’s public housing operating fund is expected to be reduced to $3.9 billion from the FY 2016 enacted level of $4.5 billion and HUD’s public housing capital fund is expected to decrease to $600 million from the FY 2016 enacted level of $1.8 billion. As applied to NYCHA, a 13% cut to the public housing operating fund would result in fewer maintenance staff, longer response times for completing apartment repairs, and acceleration of deterioration of units. Reducing public housing capital funding by 66% would prevent NYCHA from keeping current on basic building repairs, much less moving forward on the authority’s five-year capital plan. Cuts to HUD would also exacerbate NYCHA’s $17 billion capital needs backlog and intensify the public health crisis facing its residents. We urge you not to cut funding to our nation’s public and affordable housing programs, which are already being squeezed by sequestration budget caps. NYCHA receives approximately 70 percent of its operating funding and almost all of its capital repair funding from HUD and the impact of these cuts to the working individuals and families in NYCHA units could be dire. HUD’s programs are vital to the future stability and sustainability of NYCHA and other public housing authorities around the country. Instead, we urge you to propose targeted increases to HUD’s public housing programs in order to improve the lives and living conditions for NYCHA, and all public housing authority, residents. As a former real estate developer, in New York City, President Trump should understand the fundamental role NYCHA plays in our city and how a targeted investment strategy to HUD’s public housing programs could not only improve the lives and living conditions for NYCHA residents, but could also be an engine for job creation and urban revitalization—two of his stated priorities. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. Sincerely Yours, Nydia M. Velazquez Charles Schumer Kirsten Gillibrand Gregory Meeks Carolyn Maloney José E. Serrano Eliot Engel Yvette Clarke Adriano Espaillat Jerrold Nadler Joseph Crowley Grace Meng Hakeem Jeffries # # #
03.14.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding Rep. Steve King’s Twitter post that, “we can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies”: “Steve King’s repugnant comments have no place in our society and are unbefitting of a Member of Congress. I have served with Steve King on the House Small Business Committee and have been frequently outraged by his anti-immigrant remarks. This, however, is a new low and I call on all honorable Republican Members of Congress to forcefully denounce these hateful remarks by their colleague.”
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Committees moved Thursday to close a decades-old loophole that critics say has caused significant financial losses for many Puerto Rican investors and retirees. The House Financial Services Committee and the Senate Banking Committee approved the “U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act”, legislation that would extend to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico and all the U.S. territories the same rules as those that apply on the U.S. mainland. “For too long, due to an inexcusable oversight in federal investment law, residents of Puerto Rico did not have the same consumer safeguards as are available on the mainland,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the lead sponsor in the House. “The result has been that retirees and working families have been fleeced out of their life savings, suffering enormous losses on financial products they were sold by unscrupulous companies. The legislation approved today will close this loophole and protect investors in Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories.” “The more than 3.4 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico know all too well the damage unregulated bad actors can inflict,” said Senator Menendez (D-NJ), the lead sponsor in the Senate. “Far too many seniors and retirees have lost their hard-earned savings due to this outdated and unfair exemption in our federal securities laws. The legislation approved today will provide the same consumer safeguards to investors in Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories as are provided to investors on the U.S. mainland.” “I’m proud to support this bipartisan bill because Puerto Rico is in the midst of a deep economic crisis,” said Rep. Duffy (R-WI), an original cosponsor of the bill. “Protecting investors on the Island is an important step toward economic growth. Puerto Rican investors should not be denied the same protections as investors in Wisconsin, Texas, or New York." “Today’s action moves the ball forward on leveling the playing field and providing long overdue protections for U.S. citizens who reside in our nation’s territories,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). “By closing this loophole, investors in these territories will be afforded the same protections as their fellow citizens in states across the country.” It has been publicly reported that some actors in Puerto Rico have used the current law’s loophole to act both as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, and then repackaged those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. While this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to the 1940 exemption, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland. The situation has been compounded by Puerto Rico’s ongoing debt crisis. Puerto Rican investors holding government bonds have suffered massive losses and are claiming that some financial companies did not properly disclose the risks of these funds, due to this conflict of interest. At the time the exemption was created in 1940, it was suggested that Puerto Rico and other “U.S. possessions” were physically located too far away for the Investment Act protections to be enforced. Since then both Hawaii and Alaska, which are farther away from the mainland than Puerto Rico, have been granted statehood and the protections in the 1940 Act. Additionally, air travel between the U.S. and Puerto Rico is common and many of these financial instruments are today traded electronically. The legislation, S. 484 in the Senate and H.R. 1366, was approved in both Committees with bipartisan backing. The measures must now be considered by the full U.S. House and Senate.
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored legislation that would stop state and local law enforcement from being deputized by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to pursue undocumented immigrants. The legislation targets a provision of immigration law, section “287(g)”, that permits the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to enter into Memorandums of Agreement with state and local law enforcement officers to perform the functions of federal immigration agents. “Local police resources should be used to pursue dangerous criminals, not implement unjust anti-immigrant policies that tear families apart,” said Velázquez. “My bill would put an end to this practice once and for all and ensure local police are not accomplices to this Administration’s immoral federal immigration policies.” Since its enactment more than ten years ago, the 287(g) initiative has drawn significant criticism. Not only does the program divert law enforcement resources away from pursuing and preventing serious crimes, but many immigration advocates have said that the initiative lacks proper federal oversight. Moreover, previous investigations have found that the 287(g) program can cause racial profiling. For instance, a review by the Department of Justice of the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office revealed numerous constitutional violations and racial profiling of Latinos, after the Sheriff’s Office entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with DHS to enforce immigration law. “Immigrant communities everywhere are profoundly concerned by the direction the Trump Administration is taking and the hateful rhetoric they are hearing from Washington,” Velázquez added. “This bill will make it clear to our immigrant communities that they do not need to fear being deported or detained if they cooperate with local police, which makes us all safer.” Velázquez’s legislation was endorsed by a range of immigration advocacy, civil rights and labor groups. Javier H. Valdés, Co-Executive Director of Make the Road New York, said, “This important legislation would undo one of the worst provisions of President Trump’s attacks on immigrants. 287(g) seeks to deputize local law enforcement officers to be immigration enforcement—which puts immigrant families in danger and makes all Americans less safe. By drawing a bright line between local law enforcement and immigration enforcement, communities will have more trust to report crimes they witness or suffer to local officers—which makes everyone safer.” Rocio Sáenz, International Executive Vice President, SEIU, said, “The 287(g) program is a recipe for racial profiling that is set to be dramatically expanded under Trump's Executive Orders on immigration. Some police departments have used 287(g) as license to illegally target communities of color, as was documented with the former Sheriff of Maricopa County, Arizona Joe Arpaio, and we have no faith that Trump will hold local departments accountable for these discriminatory policies. If enacted, the No State Resources for Immigration Enforcement (NSRIE) Act, will make us all safer by ensuring a clearer division of labor between local police, whose job is protecting public safety, and immigration enforcement agents who are charged with deporting immigrants." Héctor Figueroa, President of 32BJ Service Employees International Union, said “Eliminating the harmful 287g program is the right thing to do. When immigrant communities, regardless of immigration status, know or believe that police are involved with ICE, seeking aid from police becomes too risky. Crimes go unreported and victims go unprotected when entire communities fear the police. This is bad for everyone in our communities. We strongly support the proposed legislation so we can stop conscripting local law enforcement into being the shock troops for a broken immigration system that is being used to separate and terrorize hard-working families.”
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored legislation to improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), a government initiative that allows property owners to purchase insurance for protection against damage from floods. In addition to reauthorizing NFIP for ten years, Velázquez’s bill would make a number of necessary reforms, correcting problems in the program that became apparent after Hurricane Sandy. “After Sandy, we heard countless stories from homeowners who saw their claims denied or significantly delayed due to systemic problems in the flood insurance program,” Velázquez said. “My bill would address shortcomings in this program and make it work better for policyholders.” Velázquez’s legislation would make significant reforms to the Write Your Own (“WYO”) component in the NFIP. The WYO program is an arrangement between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the private insurance industry, which allows participating property and casualty insurance companies to write and service FEMA’s Standard Flood Insurance Policy (“SFIP”) in their own names. As of 2015, there were 79 companies participating in the WYO program and handling the majority of flood insurance policies. In addition to the WYO program, FEMA also administers a small number of policies through the NFIP’s Direct program. “Multiple studies and investigations have found that FEMA hasn’t conducted the appropriate oversight over the Write Your Own initiative,” Velázquez noted. “Unfortunately, some bad actors participating in this program have gamed the system to avoid paying policyholders’ claims after flood disasters.” As of 2015, FEMA was seeking to settle roughly 1,800 lawsuits filed by homeowners claiming they were underpaid on flood insurance claims after Sandy. According to advocates and others, private insurers had engineering firms alter reports to reduce the amount and number of claims the insurance companies paid out. Among other reforms, Velázquez’s legislation would improve disclosure and transparency for policyholders, institute protections for whistle blowers and stiffen penalties for falsification of engineering reports used to adjust claim payouts. “Unfortunately, as our climate changes, I expect we will have more catastrophic weather events in the years to come,” Velázquez noted. “Homeowners and property owners living in flood prone areas need to have a functional flood insurance policy with the assurance they will be treated fairly in the event of property damage.” Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. She introduced her legislation the day before that Committee’s Subcommittee held its first hearing on reauthorization of the NFIP. The program is slated to expire at the end of September and Congress must pass legislation reauthorizing it before then. # # #
03.08.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez made the following statement today on the House floor regarding "A Day Without A Woman": Mr. Speaker, today, across the nation, from every major city to every small town, women are standing in solidarity, and reminding the world of our contributions. On this “Day Without A Woman”, women are sending a powerful message – about the role we play in local communities, in our nation and throughout the globe! Yet, sadly, on this very same day that women are standing up to end gender discrimination and economic injustice, defend our bodies from governmental intrusion and to choose our own destiny, Republicans are proceeding with legislation to roll back the clock. Congressional Committees are starting to consider legislation eviscerating the Affordable Care Act. Not only would the Republican plan slash Medicaid – harming working women and children – but it defunds Planned Parenthood, ultimately depriving millions of women of lifesaving health services. Mr. Speaker, it is a sad irony - on this “Day Without A Woman” – when millions of ordinary Americans are standing for women’s rights and a more just economy – Congressional Republicans are rushing to deprive millions of women and their families of health services they need to survive. This bill was composed behind closed doors, in secret, and now Republicans are rushing it through the Committee process to avoid scrutiny. On this “Day Without A Woman” we are sending a powerful message. I can only hope my Republican colleagues in Congress are listening. Because, today, women everywhere are saying with one collective voice – we will not be silenced! I yield back.
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the release of Republicans’ plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and take healthcare from millions of Americans: “The Republican legislation that was released last night will mean less coverage for working families, but higher costs – while enacting a massive tax cut for millionaires. “Not only will the bill terminate the Medicaid expansion enacted through the ACA, but it would also impose devastating cuts and caps on the program, harming 70 million Americans who rely on Medicaid, including seniors with long-term care needs, Americans with disabilities and vulnerable children. Further, the bill would put insurance companies back in charge and enable companies to charge more or discriminate against those with preexisting conditions in some instances. The bill also unacceptably blocks funding for Planned Parenthood, which provides healthcare services to millions of women, annually. “This plan to ‘make America sick again’ is a non-starter. I encourage all Americans to make their voices heard in opposing this legislation to rip healthcare away from millions of Americans.”
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the passing of Bienvenido Antonio Reina: “Bienvenido was a respected and hardworking member of the Williamsburg community. As an immigrant from the Dominican Republic, he came to our City, worked hard and raised his children to be good citizens. I know he must have been immensely proud when his daughter, Diana, became the first Dominican women elected to the City Council and, later, when she became the first Dominican to serve as the Deputy Borough President of Brooklyn. My thoughts and prayers are with Bienvenido’s family and all those who knew and loved him.”
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement after the President signed a new Executive Order seeking to reinstate the Muslim and Refugee ban: “At its heart, this policy is an affront to our national values, makes our country less safe, potentially isolates our allies and will almost certainly not pass constitutional muster. The President may try and change the window dressing with his latest Order, but the central thrust remains an offensive, immoral, unconstitutional and un-American policy. We will fight this latest Executive Order in the courts, in the halls of Congress, in the airports and in the streets.” In late January, Velázquez went to John F. Kennedy International Airport where several travelers from Muslim nations had been detained under the previous Executive Order. Last week, she brought one of those travelers, Hameed Darweesh, as her guest to the President’s speech to Congress.
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions failed to disclose communications with Russian officials during his confirmation hearings: “Jeff Sessions has lost all credibility. He must resign immediately. As I have said previously, we need a Special Counsel to investigate Russia’s interference in our election. The American people need assurance that a fair, thorough and unbiased investigation is being conducted. To that end, Attorney General Sessions should resign immediately and the Acting Attorney General who replaces him must appoint a Special Counsel to investigate how Russia sought to influence our electoral process through cyberattacks and ensure that those who perpetrated or facilitated these attacks be held legally responsible.” Velázquez was the first Member of Congress to call for a Special Counsel to look into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election. In December, Velázquez wrote to then-Attorney General Lynch asking that she appoint a Special Counsel. Following the resignation of General Flynn she renewed that request in a letter to Attorney General Sessions. # # #
03.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s address to Congress: “I heard little substantive tonight to suggest that the President has adopted a new tone or is attempting to heal the deep rifts roiling our nation. As a candidate, Donald Trump ran on a platform of helping working families, but in forty days, he has done nothing to address the myriad problems facing America’s most vulnerable. “Instead, we’ve heard time and again that Republicans and the President want to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, depriving 30 million Americans of medical coverage. In New York State alone, 1.6 million of our neighbors - who gained coverage through ACA - could see their health insurance taken away through this approach. And, 2.7 million New Yorkers who have enrolled in Medicaid could lose coverage. “Yet, tonight, when he had the chance, the President did not offer a clear, cohesive policy that would replace the ACA and protect the care of America’s most vulnerable. Rather, he pointed to a grab bag of ideas that experts have repeatedly said would put the burden of healthcare costs on the poor and the sick, and only benefit the healthy and wealthy. If the President and Congressional Republicans continue down this path, they can expect resistance not only from Democrats in Congress, but also from Americans around the nation who are already making their collective voice heard and demanding that their care be protected. “Likewise, I heard few specifics on how this Administration would create jobs, spur growth, raise wages, or provider greater economic security for Americans. The President says he wants a significant infrastructure investment but provided no details on how he would pay for it. These are areas where one might hope for common ground. Yet, there was little in tonight’s speech to suggest the President is ready for this type of progress, either. “Lastly, on immigration, let me say this - the President says he wants to find compromise but continues reiterating rhetoric about walls, bans and division. Let’s be clear, tearing families apart and sewing fear in immigrant communities cannot be part of any compromise. That is a non-starter. “Americans today increasingly feel troubled and unsettled. Every day, I hear from New Yorkers who have profound concerns about the direction the President has staked out. I continue hoping that, at some point, we’ll hear better, more substantive ideas from the Administration than what we heard tonight. But, if the President and Congressional Republicans double down on policies harming working families, they can be certain New Yorkers and Americans everywhere will stand up and oppose them.”
02.27.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez today submitted comments to to the House Appropriations Committee, seeking adequate funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The comments she filed are below. Statement of Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez NY-07 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Statement for the Record in Support of a $10 billion funding level for the Environmental Protection Agency for FY18 For over 40 years, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has played a vital role advancing environmental research, supporting sustainable initiatives, and holding polluters accountable - all in an effort to make communities healthier and safer. As such, fully funding EPA programs will ensure it continues advancing its mission to protect human health and the environment. In recent years, due to sequestration, government shutdowns, and budget cuts, EPA has had to take drastic measures to try and fulfill its mission. Forcing dedicated civil servants to take unpaid leave during furloughs left the agency short-staffed to implement statutory requirements. Through grant rescissions and other reductions, EPA has been hamstrung by targeted chronic underfunding. The vital role of the EPA necessitates Congress dismiss outright any legislation that would eliminate EPA or severely curtail its budget. In fact, we should increase funding to pre-sequestration levels to ensure the principal source of environmental data functions at full capacity. Further, almost half of EPA’s budget is distributed through grants, most of which are to State, local and Tribal governments that depend on that funding to support essential programs such as pesticide applicator training, hazardous waste management, indoor radon education, wetland development and water pollution control. Finally, through the Superfund program, EPA has an essential role in managing the cleanup of hazardous waste sites. With three Superfund sites in New York’s 7th Congressional district, it is of particular importance to my constituents that this program remains intact. Eliminating EPA or drastically cutting its budget is ill advised due to the agency’s role in providing these unique services. Therefore, I urge the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies to appropriate a minimum of 10 billion dollars to EPA to guarantee State, local and Tribal governments receive the federal funding needed to effectively implement programs supporting key environmental laws such the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act.
02.24.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after receiving a letter from the New York Police Department estimating the costs to the City of providing security for the First Family in Trump Tower: “As I have said previously, under no circumstances should the New York City taxpayer foot the tab for security at a second, full-time residence for Mr. Trump’s family. Donald Trump campaigned to be President of the United States. Traditionally, when taking that job, our Presidents have relocated their families to the White House, where they are kept safe at reasonable federal public expense. “I will work with my colleagues in the delegation to secure federal funding to offset these costs, but I continue to believe that if Mr. Trump and his family choose to maintain two, fulltime residences then he should help pay this cost from his significant personal financial resources.” In December, Velázquez led colleagues in writing to the Governor and Mayor calling on Trump to pay for the costs of securing Trump Tower. # # #
02.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote to New York Police Department Commissioner O’Neill and Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez calling for an investigation into the shooting death of Sergio Reyes. Reyes was reportedly shot fourteen times by police in Bushwick early Sunday morning. The full text of the letter is below and online here. February 23, 2017 The Honorable James P. O’Neill Police Commissioner, City of New York 1 Police Plaza New York, NY 10007 The Honorable Eric Gonzalez Acting District Attorney 350 Jay Street, 16th Floor Brooklyn, NY 11201 Dear Commissioner O’Neill and Acting District Attorney Gonzalez: I am writing to express my concern over the death of Sergio Reyes, who was killed this past weekend at the hands of New York City Police Department (NYPD) officers. Mr. Reyes, being chased by officers from the 83rd Precinct, was shot with 14 bullets after fleeing a grocery store where he pulled a realistic-looking pellet gun in an attempted robbery. According to reports, Mr. Reyes was shot in his heart, lungs, aorta, spinal cord, liver, stomach and bones. Sergio died from his injuries. From a third party standpoint, these wounds are extremely alarming. It can be argued that Mr. Reyes, sustaining one injury in any of these locations could have been apprehended and taken immediately to a local hospital for medical treatment—which could have potentially saved his life. While all the facts have not yet been made fully public, there are questions in the community about when Mr. Reyes was effectively incapacitated from his injuries and whether he could have been apprehended, taken to a local hospital for medical treatment and potentially survived. Given the egregious nature of Sergio’s injuries, I am requesting that both the NYPD and the District Attorney’s (DA) office investigate this incident. In addition to this investigation, I request that both your offices conduct an evaluation of the following: • The overall effectiveness of new or revised “use of force” policies (implemented in June 2016), specifically with de-escalation mechanisms and the metrics that define the “objectively reasonable standard;” • The current de-escalation techniques which are consistent with the current NYPD Patrol Guide. • The criteria established by the Force Investigations Division to determine whether an officer has acted negligently in breaking with force/restraint and firearm prohibitions; • The total number of training hours, including the specific conditions and scenarios, NYPD officers receive when it comes to practicing de-escalation mechanisms and restraint of force; and • An examination of potentially successful strategies, including professional development or continuing education to prevent further instances of disproportionate use of force. I look forward to your responses and working collaboratively to ensure that our communities are safe and able to interact with the police officers that serve and protect them. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress cc: Deputy Inspector Sergio Centa, Commanding Officer, 83rd Precinct, Brooklyn # # #
02.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to rescind the Obama Administration’s Title IX guidance to schools regarding transgender students’ rights: “The Trump Administration’s heartless decision to remove these protections is an assault on the rights of young people who already face extraordinary challenges in simply trying to secure an education in a safe environment. This attack on the civil rights of the LGBT community is an affront to our fundamental values of equality. We must all forcefully and publicly oppose this move, while continuing efforts to advance equality for all.” # # #
02.14.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez today wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling for a Special Counsel to investigate Russian interference in the United States 2016 election. Velázquez had previously called for such a Counsel in December. In her letter, she notes she is renewing this request in light of news surrounding the resignation of National Security Advisory Flynn. “These issues go to the heart of our democracy and the American people deserve a full accounting of the facts,” Velázquez states in the letter. “It is important that any investigation avoid even the appearance of bias or political interference. Appointing a Special Counsel would help assure the American people that these matters are being investigated fully, thoroughly and by a nonpartisan entity that will ultimately make public all relevant facts.” The full text of the letter is below and a .pdf is online here. February 14, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions United States Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Sessions: As you may be aware, in December, I wrote to your predecessor, Attorney General Lynch, asking her to appoint a Special Counsel tasked with examining Russia’s involvement in the 2016 U.S. presidential and congressional elections, the role cyberattacks played in the elections and any involvement or knowledge by American citizens. At that time, I made clear it was my expectation that such a Counsel would continue its work in to the new Administration. Today, I am resubmitting this request to you. Recent events make clear the need for the Department to exercise this prerogative. The startling resignation of General Flynn from the position of National Security Advisor and revelations that he was less than forthcoming about his conversations with Russian officials have raised yet more disturbing questions about the Administration’s ties to Russia and that country’s interference in our democratic process. We now have a situation where there may have been inappropriate contact between the National Security Advisor and the Russian Ambassador. It is unclear when other members of the Administration, including close advisors to the President and the White House General Counsel, were made aware of these discussions. It is being publicly reported that the President was aware of this turn of events weeks ago. All of this is particularly disturbing given previously unanswered questions surrounding Russian intelligence agencies’ hacking of U.S. political organizations, ties between then-candidate Trump’s campaign staff and pro-Russian politicians in Europe and suggestions that the Russian government may have amassed damaging information on the President. These issues go to the heart of our democracy and the American people deserve a full accounting of the facts. It is important that any investigation avoid even the appearance of bias or political interference. While there are currently underway investigations by Congressional Intelligence Committees, there is no guarantee the information they unearth will be made public. Appointing a Special Counsel would help assure the American people that these matters are being investigated fully, thoroughly and by a nonpartisan entity that will ultimately make public all relevant facts. The authority to appoint a Special Counsel exists precisely for situations like this. Under the law, a Special Counsel can be appointed when there are “extraordinary circumstances” and “it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter.” The current state of affairs is extraordinarily troubling and, to say the least, incredibly politically sensitive. For all these reasons, it is critical that you immediately appoint a Special Counsel to investigate these matters. I look forward to your swift response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress
02.08.2017	Washington, DC – The House Financial Services Committee has approved three amendments authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). The provisions were adopted as part of the Committee’s Authorization and Oversight Plan and would help address pressing issues facing New Yorkers. “Housing issues are critically important to all New Yorkers and the amendments I authored and my colleagues approved will make important strides for both renters and homeowners living throughout the five boroughs,” Velázquez said. One amendment would ensure that the Financial Services Committee conducts vigorous oversight of landlords participating in the Section 8 program, to ensure they follow rules set out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and to prevent abuse of tenants. “We’ve heard numerous stories of unscrupulous landlords allowing units to fall into disrepair to force families out, jack up rents and make more money,” Velázquez noted. “This amendment would ensure HUD and the Committee proactively prevent egregious acts like these.” A second amendment requires that the Committee look into targeted funding for capital repairs and upgrades in public housing facilities like the New York City Housing Authority. Velázquez noted that inadequate investment in public housing infrastructure has resulted in serious health problems for residents. For example, one study found that asthma prevalence amongst children living in NYCHA housing is nearly two times higher than rates amongst children living in other types of housing in the City, due to the presence of mold. “These are fixable problems that can be solved by repairing leaky windows, replacing roofs and make other upgrades,” Velázquez noted. “This amendment will ensure the Committee takes these issues seriously and prioritizes these investments.” Velázquez’s third amendment seeks to tackle problems in the nation’s Flood Insurance Program. After Superstorm Sandy, there were multiple incidents of fraud reported and several studies found the Program lacks internal controls and oversight. “The Flood Insurance Program needs to function efficiently and transparently in order to ensure help is going to those harmed by catastrophes like Sandy,” Velázquez said. “My amendment would ensure the Committee takes steps to implement needed reforms.” The Committee approved a total of eight amendments – three of them Velázquez’s - during its consideration of its Oversight plan. The Congresswoman’s amendments were approved by voice vote. Velázquez is the third most senior Democrat on the Financial Services Committee and the only New York City Member of Congress to serve on the Housing Subcommittee.
02.08.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled new legislation that would steer federal funding to transportation alternatives when major transit arteries are closed or delayed due to infrastructure upgrades. The legislation, the “Increase Transportation Alternatives Investment Program,” could help expand choices for New York commuters who currently rely on the L and M trains, both of which are expected to close in the near future for extensive repairs. “With transit options being closed for critical repairs, we need to invest in smart, alternative transportation options that create additional options for commuters,” noted Velázquez. “This legislation will help ensure federal dollars best meet the needs of New Yorkers who rely on these critical transit arteries for work or school. Under the legislation, states securing funding through the federal government’s Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) Program would be required to prioritize transportation projects in areas where there is significant reconstruction or repair of transportation infrastructure occurring. The STBG provides funding that may be used by States and localities for projects to preserve and improve the conditions and performance on any Federal-aid highway, bridge and tunnel projects on any public road, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, and transit capital projects. “With the L Train slated to close in January of 2019 and the M train expected to close this summer, we need to think proactively about how to minimize disruption for working families,” Velázquez added. “This measure would ensure areas experiencing extensive infrastructure work move to the top of the list when seeking financing to expand transit alternatives.” Beyond updating the STBG initiatives, the bill would create a new competitive grant program at the Department of Transportation that supports community efforts to invest in transportation. Eligible programs include carpool and telecommuting projects as well as expanding bicycle and pedestrian mobility and access. That program would also give preference to areas undergoing extensive repair of transportation systems. The L Train is slated to close for 18 months in January 2019 to make way for repairs of the Canarsie Tunnel. Parts of the M line, which runs from Middle Village through Midtown into Queens, could be shut down for as long as 10 months for reconstruction starting the summer of 2017.
01.28.2017	New York, N.Y. -- Today, U.S. Representatives Nydia Velázquez and Jerrold Nadler traveled to JFK airport to demand the release of refugees being held under the president’s executive order. After meeting with officials from the Custom and Border Patrol agency, one of the refugees, Hameed Khalid Darweesh, an Iraqi translator who helped the United States government, was released. Reps. Velázquez and Nadler are still working to release 11 others being held at JFK under the new executive order. Reps. Velázquez and Nadler issued the following joint statement: “Today, we saw in real human terms the damage and the absurdity of Trump’s policies. The president’s executive order is mean-spirited, ill-conceived, and ill-advised. The order almost banned a man from entering the country who has worked for the United States government for 10 years, who risked his life to help us and to help our troops, and who loves our country. Thankfully, we did not sit idly by. We took action. We demanded his release, and the release of the others who are being unlawfully detained. We are pleased to announce that Hameed Khalid Darweesh has been released and can now be reunited with his family. “This should not happen in America. We shouldn’t have to demand the release of refugees one by one. We must fight this executive order in the streets, in the courts, anywhere, anytime. We must resist. We must fight. We must keep working to keep America the land of the free and the home of the brave.” # # #
01.27.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Lunar New Year: “The Lunar New Year provides a time for families to gather, honor ancestors, pay tribute to traditions, celebrate a year of hard work and prepare for a prosperous new year. The events celebrating the Lunar New Year throughout our nation and across the country highlight our country’s cultural vibrancy. “One of New York’s greatest strengths has always been its diversity and Asian communities are a vital part of our cultural tapestry. I wish all my friends and neighbors good luck and prosperity in the Year of the Rooster.” # # #
01.26.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of former Bronx Congressman Robert Garcia: “I was profoundly saddened to hear of the passing of my friend, Congressman Garcia. A steadfast public servant, Bobby served the people of the Bronx tirelessly in the New York State Assembly, the New York State Senate and the U.S. House. “During his decade in the House of Representatives he secured a number of achievements important to New Yorkers and Latinos. He worked across the aisle to help create the Empowerment Zone program, opening doors of opportunity for thousands of Americans. By working with President Carter to see the term ‘Hispanic’ included in the Census, he helped boost political representation in our community. An advocate for equality for all people, he was one of the most forceful advocates for establishing a holiday paying tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “Being one of the first elected officials of Puerto Rican descent in the Bronx, Bobby Garcia was a trailblazer who knocked down doors for many of us who followed in his footsteps. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Jane and his entire family. I hope they take comfort in the many contributions he made throughout his life.”
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive actions related to immigration signed today: "These actions make for abysmal immigration policy and are an affront not only to our immigrant communities, but also to all Americans. “Mr. Trump’s wall plan serves as little more than a political distraction. We’ve learned time and again that when people build 10-foot walls, others build 11-foot ladders. At the end of the day, this will amount to an ineffectual, expensive boondoggle that costs American taxpayers billions of dollars, does nothing meaningful to address immigration issues and simply serves as a symbol of this Administration’s hateful rhetoric. “Mr. Trump’s attack on cities that respect diversity and immigrant communities will also fall short. New Yorkers understand diversity is strength and we are a nation of immigrants. Our City will not be bullied into being accomplices in policies that create fear in immigrant communities. “The U.S. must work on comprehensive immigration reform that keeps families together and honors our nation’s immigrant heritage. While these Executive Orders do nothing to advance that goal, I will continue fighting for action in this regard.” # # #
01.17.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that President Obama pardoning Oscar Lopez: “I thank President Obama for taking this step, an act of magnanimous grace. I also want to thank all the activists, elected officials and ordinary Puerto Ricans who labored tirelessly to secure Oscar’s freedom. “Over the many years of his imprisonment, Oscar López Rivera has become a symbol for all Puerto Ricans, whether on the island or among the diaspora. His struggle is our struggle and in many ways represents the pain and the journey that all Puerto Ricans have and are living. “The news that President Obama is pardoning Oscar López is momentous for all Puerto Ricans. At this time, when our beloved island has endured so much economic turmoil and hardship, the release of this gentle man is an important step of justice. Oscar’s dignity and humanity has helped bring Puerto Ricans of all political orientations together, unifying our people. His release, at long last, must be celebrated and I am profoundly moved that he will, finally, be coming home.”
01.12.2017	Washington, DC – Democratic lawmakers today wrote to President Obama asking that, in his final days in office, he grant a pardon to Legal Permanent Residents who are at risk of deportation due to minor criminal offenses. The letter, authored by New York Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez and José E. Serrano, notes that 100,000 to 200,000 families include green card holders who, while in the country legally, are in jeopardy of removal due to minor infractions, many of which occurred some time ago. Many immigrants have expressed fear that the incoming Administration will target individuals in this category for deportation. “There’s palpable fear in immigrant communities, particularly among some legal residents who are at risk of deportation due to small legal infractions, many of which happened a long time ago,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “We can’t allow families in these circumstances to be torn apart, and President Obama could – with the stroke of a pen – provide these individuals with a degree of assurance.” “We’re asking President Obama to address the fears that many immigrant families have of a Trump Administration, where thousands of green card holders with minor criminal records will likely be at risk of deportation. A 20 year old conviction for turnstile jumping should not lead to deportation. Without action, these individuals could be forced to go back to a country they do not know and they may be separated from their spouses and children- leading to unnecessary emotional and economic harm. President Obama has previously used his executive authority to deprioritize the deportation of these individuals- we’re asking that he use his pardon powers to ensure their safety and security beyond January 20th,” said Congressman Serrano. The letter is also signed by: Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA); Gene Green (D-TX); Adriano Espaillat (D-NY); John Lewis (D-GA); Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Grace Meng (D-NY); Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY); James P. McGovern (D-MA); Mark Takano (D-CA); Judy Chu (D-CA); Marc Veasey (D-TX); Albio Sires (D-NJ); Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) ; Keith Ellison (D-MN); Juan Vargas (D-CA); Darren Soto (D-FL); Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL); Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA); Tony Cárdenas (D-CA); Jerrold Nadler (D-NY); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Alma S. Adams (D-NC); Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Barbara Lee (D-CA). The text of the letter is below. January 12, 2017 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write with great urgency to ask that you pardon all Lawful Permanent Residents (LPRs) who are legally deportable based solely on minor criminal offenses. LPRs, or green card holders, already possess legal status. These immigrants are productive members of our community and many of them have resided in the U.S. for significant periods of time. To deport these individuals due to relatively minor infractions is not only disproportionate, but also morally unacceptable. Furnishing a pardon against the civil deportation charges that can be generated by these minor convictions will effectively provide many American families with long-lasting protection against deportation and help ease fears in immigrant communities as we transition into the new Administration. Furthermore, your pardon power could also be used to rectify current limitations that prevent certain immigrants from legalizing their status. The Supreme Court has previously recognized under current law deportation is largely a predestined fate for a wide range of noncitizen offenders. In addition to more serious offenses, low-level convictions can result in deportation. This remains the case for scenarios in which offenses may have occurred decades ago, or alternatively, when the underlying criminal sentences involved minimal or no jail time. In short, individuals in possession of legal status are subject to an additional penalty for any criminal offenses. Aside from any sentence received from a criminal court, these people are subject to deportation based on these minor infractions. In most cases, these individuals have already served a sentence, paid a fine or otherwise repaid their debt to society. A longtime LPR with a conviction for a minor offense, for example, can face deportation to a country they may have left as a child, no longer recognize and where they have no family or support network. These negative consequences are even more devastating when families are involved. Needless deportations can tear families apart or require a U.S. citizen spouse to accompany their deported spouse to another country. The sons and daughters of these immigrants, in cases where they have no family to care for them in the case of deportation may likely find themselves facing unnecessary foster care placement. In cases where there are no additional options, both the immigrant, U.S. spouse and their children would likely have no additional option other than to move abroad. The disproportionate burden this places on legal permanent residents and their families is not only unfair—it is completely unjustified. A presidential pardon for those with low-level offenses would ameliorate this situation and protect many Legal Permanent Residents from devastating, life changing consequences. Your Administration has already exhibited great leadership de-prioritizing removal of some people with minor convictions. Although we believe that the deportation of many people who fall within the current enforcement priorities is disproportionate to their offenses, at minimum, we urge you to make permanent your Administration’s established priorities by pardoning all LPRs who fall outside of those enforcement priorities. Doing so would protect between 100,000 and 200,000 families. The Supreme Court has been clear that such broad categorical reprieves are consistent with the presidential pardon power, do not require legislative approval, and further, that the pardon power does not only apply to criminal penalties. A robust presidential pardon would ensure just treatment for permanent residents and keep families together who might otherwise be separated via deportation. We ask that you move swiftly to take this timely step. Thank you for your consideration of our views. Sincerely, # # #
01.12.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the Department of Justice has filed a motion claiming the New York Board of Elections violated the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 when it removed Brooklyn voters from the rolls this past April: “We must be absolutely vigilant in protecting voting rights – one of the most precious and fundamental rights in our democracy, so I am pleased to see the Department of Justice intervene. I look forward to seeing this case make its way through the Courts so New Yorkers can have confidence this will not happen again -- and voters will not be disenfranchised.” Last summer, WNYC reported that voters in Velázquez’s Congressional District, New York’s 7th, were disproportionately impacted by the voter purge, which prompted Velázquez to call on the Department of Justice to provide federal election monitors for last June’s Congressional primary.
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor in opposition to Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Her remarks as prepared for delivery are below and video can be found online here. “Mr. Speaker, House Republicans are playing politics with millions of Americans’ healthcare. In fact, if Republicans go forward with their plan to chaotically dismantle the Affordable Care Act, 30 million Americans will lose health insurance. “In New York State alone, 1.6 million of our neighbors - who gained coverage through ACA - will see their health insurance taken away. And, 2.7 million New Yorkers who have enrolled in Medicaid could lose coverage. “But let us remember that this is not just about New Yorkers. In fact, the sad irony is that many of the Americans who will be most devastated by repeal of this law are in the “red” states and counties -- the places that voted for President Elect Trump. Those areas have high numbers of Americans on the Medicaid rolls. “Already, states like Idaho, Nebraska, South Dakota and Georgia are putting Medicaid expansion on hold, waiting to see how action on the ACA plays out. That means half a million Americans will have to wait for health benefits. “But let’s keep in mind -- this is not just about Medicaid. And, it is not just about those who obtained coverage through the exchanges. What we need to remember is that all the elements of healthcare reform work together. If you start chipping away at one part of the system, you will see disasters in other parts of the market. “This is about the young person, just out of college, who can stay on their parents’ insurance until they turn 26, giving them time to secure employment and coverage on their own. It is about patients with a preexisting condition who, until the ACA, were barred from securing quality medical insurance. It is about women who have -- time and again -- faced gender discrimination in the insurance market. “Just this past Saturday, New Yorkers in my district rallied together to oppose Republican plans to roll back the ACA and “Make America Sick Again.” We heard from our local hospitals and healthcare providers who talked about how they would be affected by a dramatic surge in charity care. Nationally, healthcare providers could get stuck with $88 billion in 2019 alone -- and $1.1 trillion from 2019 to 2028 in uncompensated care. This will strain resources and make it harder for them to provide care to all their patients. “And, we heard from ordinary working people who have benefited from the ACA. People like Juana Alvarez who was able for the first time to secure coverage for her family through this law. We heard from Susan Maples who told us she would not have been able to start her own business without the health benefits afforded under the Affordable Care Act. “These are the people Republicans are planning to harm with their irresponsible, chaotic and destructive attack on our health system. “Now, let me also note this – the Republican slogan -- “repeal and replace” is a sham. What are they going to replace the ACA with? They have never – not once – put together a realistic, defensible plan to replace the ACA. “The Republican plan is not “repeal and replace” – it should be called “repeal and DISPLACE” – because it will mean displacing millions of Americans from their health coverage. “So, let’s be clear – if you are voting to take away the ACA you are voting to take away health care from millions. And, for those who DO retain their employer-based coverage, you are voting to increase their premiums, as millions of healthy Americans are taken out of the insurance pool. This is a recipe for disaster. It is a plan to “Make America Sick Again” and it cannot stand! “I urge my colleagues – think about what you are doing. Think about going home and looking in the eye your constituents and telling them you voted to take away their health coverage. “Enough playing politics with healthcare! I yield back.”
01.10.2017	Washington, DC – With student loan debt spiraling nationwide, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored legislation to help recent college graduates who are launching their own businesses to afford student loan repayment. The bill, H.R. 201, would empower more young people to go into business for themselves upon completing their education without being constrained by debts incurred when securing a college or graduate degree. “Too many young people are abandoning dreams of entrepreneurship because of a need to pay down their student loans,” Velázquez said. “This legislation would give them the flexibility to build a business without falling behind on their loan payments.” Under Velázquez’s proposal, founders of business startups could secure three years of deferment on student loans. Additionally, entrepreneurs that create new ventures in economically distressed areas could be eligible for $20,000 in loan forgiveness. “With this bill, we are telling recent graduates that if they are willing to take the risk in forming a new business, then we will give them some breathing room from their student loans, so they have the financial space to build their new venture,” Velázquez added. “For those entrepreneurs who create opportunity in economically distressed areas, additional student debt assistance would be available.” The cost of paying for and financing a college education has grown significantly in recent years and has become a major hurdle for recent graduates interested in pursuing a career in entrepreneurship. The current amount of student loans has increased tenfold in the last decade. This mounting debt has constrained new business formation by dissuading many young people from creating their own firms. Today, around a quarter of new entrepreneurs are aged 20-34, a significant decline from the mid-1990s when this younger demographic comprised 34 percent of new business entrepreneurs. “It can be very difficult for a college graduate to assume the risk of launching a new company when they can barely keep up with their student loan payments,” Velázquez noted. “This is unfortunate, because new businesses often grow the fastest, adding to their payrolls and creating badly needed jobs.” Velázquez is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business. In that role, she has long advocated for greater opportunities for entrepreneurship, particularly among women, people of color, veterans and young people.
01.09.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the terror attack Saturday in Jerusalem: “My heart breaks at these unconscionable attacks in Israel, which took four lives and injured many others. This violence is unacceptable and we must all condemn it in the strongest possible terms. Like many New Yorkers, I stand in solidarity with the people of Israel during this painful time. I pray for peace and healing.”
01.05.2017	New York, NY –Members of New York City’s Congressional delegation, New York healthcare providers, advocacy groups and others will rally Saturday morning at 11:30 a.m. in Brooklyn to oppose Republican efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and inflict deep cuts on Medicare. The rally comes as Republicans in the U.S. House and Senate begin initial legislative efforts to repeal the ACA and move Medicare toward a voucher system. The event also comes on the heels of President Obama’s meeting with Congressional Democrats, calling on them to resist efforts to undo the landmark laws. WHO*: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez Rep. Hakeem Jeffries Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney Rep. Yvette Clarke Rep. Jerrold Nadler Dr. Isaac Dapkins, NYU Lutheran Family Health Centers SEIU 1199 Alliance for Retired Americans Patient Advocates WHAT: Rally to Oppose Repeal of Affordable Care Act, Medicare Cuts WHEN: Saturday, January 7th, 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Woodhull Medical Center Auditorium 760 Broadway Brooklyn NY * Speaker list to be updated
01.04.2017	Washington, DC – On the first day of the 115th Congress, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation aimed at addressing problems in the Section 8 housing program. The bill, the “Landlord Accountability Act”, aims to protect tenants, particularly those in the Section 8 program, from unscrupulous behaviors by landlords. “Throughout New York, there are reports of landlords intentionally letting apartments fall into disrepair with the goal of displacing low-income tenants and, then, renting the units for greater profit,” Velázquez said. “This bill would take important steps to protect residents of Section 8 buildings and other properties from these abuses, while holding dishonest landlords to account.” Media reports have documented instances where landlords neglect Section 8 eligible apartments, causing the units to no longer qualify for a voucher. By removing units from the Section 8 initiative, this practice essentially raises rents on lower income tenants, forcing them from their homes. To help address this, Velázquez’s legislation would fine landlords who take actions, or neglect to act, with the intention of disqualifying units for federal housing programs. Landlords could be fined up to $100,000 for violations and face a second set of fines of $50,000 with revenue going to aggrieved tenants. “Unscrupulous landlords understand only one thing -- money,” Velázquez added. “If landlords try to force tenants from their homes, we’re going to hit them where they feel it most– in their pocketbooks.” Velázquez’s bill would extend other assistance to tenants. The bill would establish a new Multifamily Housing Complaint Resolution Program to investigate and attempt to resolve disputes through mediation. Complaints received through the new program would be made publicly available. With New York facing a growing crisis in affordable housing, the bill would expand the availability of affordable housing by ending discrimination against tenants with a Section 8 voucher. As more than half of New York City renters are now considered “rent burdened”, it is increasingly difficult for working families to secure affordable apartments. The legislation would for the first time ban housing discrimination based on a tenant’s use of a housing voucher. “You cannot legally discriminate against a potential tenant based on race, religion or gender and this same protection should extend to a potential tenants’ income,” Velázquez added. Beyond assisting Section 8 voucher holders, the bill would direct federal resources to local programs benefiting other tenants. A new $25 million grant program would steer resources to agencies that provide tenants with assistance and legal advice. Locally based initiatives like New York City’s Tenant Harassment Prevention Task Force could apply for this federal support. Velázquez’s bill, which she introduced in the House late yesterday, has previously garnered support from a wide range of advocacy groups and other elected officials including: New York City Councilman Carlos Menchaca, District 38 Brooklyn; New York City Councilman Antonio Reynoso, District 34 Brooklyn; New York City Councilwoman Margaret Chin, District 1 Manhattan; New York City Councilman Steven Levin, District 33 Brooklyn; New York City Councilman Brad Lander, District 39 Brooklyn; Brooklyn Community Board 7; Brooklyn Community Board 6; Manhattan Community Board 3; Dealice Fuller, Chair Brooklyn Community Board 1; Make the Road NY; Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A; Urban Homesteading Assistance Board (UHAB); Legal Aid; Los Sures Housing Corporation; Association of Neighborhood and Housing Development, Inc. (ANHD); The Black Institute; Families United for Racial and Economic Equality (FUREE); The Bowery Alliance of Neighbors; Community Service Society (CSS); Fifth Avenue Committee; Neighbors Helping Neighbors; Asian Americans for Equality (AAFE); Churches United for Fair Housing; Tenants and Neighbors; New York Asian Women's Center; Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation; Grand Street Settlement; New York Communities for Change; Cabrini Immigrant Services; St. Nicks Alliance; National Alliance of HUD Tenants (NAHT); VOCAL-NY; Urban Justice Center; New York Housing Conference; Wyckoff Gardens Resident Association; CAAAV; and Vladeck Houses I & II Resident Association. # # #
12.30.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passage of a U.N. Security Council Resolution condemning Israeli settlement activity. The United States abstained from voting on the Resolution. “Passage of this resolution will not bring us closer to peace, but rather create greater division within this troubled region. The United States' abstention from this vote is particularly disappointing and sends the wrong signal to Israel and the world. The United States must - and will -remain a steadfast ally of Israel. “By refusing to acknowledge Palestinian responsibility for incitement of violence or their refusal to resume talks with the Israelis, this one-sided Resolution will not advance the cause of peace and, in fact, may lead to greater violence. “The only way to achieve meaningful Israeli-Palestinian peace is with direct negotiations between the parties and I will continue working to see that objective achieved.”
12.21.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote Attorney General Loretta Lynch, asking that, before leaving office, the Attorney General appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the role cyberattacks played in the 2016 election. “I would request you empower this Counsel to continue their inquiry until all relevant facts have been unearthed, which will likely require their work to continue into the next Administration,” Velázquez’s letter states. “As you are aware, nothing in statute or existing regulations requires a Special Counsel to circumscribe, alter or end their investigation with a change in Administration or the confirmation of a new Attorney General.” The full text of the letter is below. December 20, 2016 The Honorable Loretta Lynch United States Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Lynch: First, let me thank you for your service and commitment to upholding justice and the law during your tenure as Attorney General. I am writing to request that, before leaving office, you use your statutory authority to appoint a Special Counsel tasked with examining Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election, the role cyberattacks played in the election and any involvement or knowledge by American citizens. It would be my expectation that such a Special Counsel would continue its work into the new Administration, free of interference, as provided for under the statute and regulations. While President Obama has called for a report to be issued by the intelligence community and Congressional hearings may be held, the Department of Justice still has an important role to play in determining what laws may have been broken and who in the United States or elsewhere may be legally culpable. There are a number of reasons for the Department to assign a Special Counsel. Given the complexity of the topic, it is almost certain that the information to be released in January by the intelligence community and the White House will be a starting point for additional investigation, not the conclusion of this matter. In addition, no timeline has been set for Congressional hearings and, if held in the House or Senate Intelligence Committees, the content of those hearings may not be available to the public. Moreover, while there are legislative efforts underway to establish a Commission or a Select Congressional Committee to examine these events, it is unclear when, if at all, those bills will receive consideration. The information that has been publicly reported in the media to date is profoundly troubling. Initial revelations that Democratic party IT systems had been compromised were worrisome enough; subsequent reports suggesting hackers were trying to benefit a specific candidate and harm certain Congressional candidates by launching cyberattacks and leaking sensitive information are even more alarming. Recent suggestions in the media that our intelligence community believes these operations may have been directed by the President of Russia have only further elevated these concerns . It is equally disturbing that one longtime informal advisor to the Republican nominee claimed publically that he had engaged in “back channel” communications with WikiLeaks . In addition, there are known previous business ties between some members of the President-elect’s campaign staff and pro-Russian political parties in Ukraine . As the federal agency tasked with protecting the integrity of the U.S. electoral system, DOJ has an important obligation to investigate these matters vigorously. However, given the sensitivity of these events, it is critical that any investigation be independent and avoid even the appearance of interference by political appointees from either party. The authority to appoint a Special Counsel exists precisely for situations like this. Under the law, a Special Counsel can be appointed when there are “extraordinary circumstances” and “it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter.” Given the unprecedented nature of these events and the importance of informing the public about what has transpired, I urge you to exercise this prerogative before leaving office. Furthermore, I would request you empower this Counsel to continue their inquiry until all relevant facts have been unearthed, which will likely require their work to continue into the next Administration. As you are aware, nothing in statute or existing regulations requires a Special Counsel to circumscribe, alter or end their investigation with a change in Administration or the confirmation of a new Attorney General. For these reasons a Special Counsel would be well equipped to conduct the vigorous investigatory oversight to bring all facts to light, helping restore many Americans’ confidence in our electoral system. It is vital the American people understand the exact nature of how Russia sought to influence our electoral process through cyberattacks and that those who perpetrated or facilitated these attacks be held legally responsible. You could help ensure these matters are addressed before leaving office by establishing a Special Counsel. Thank you for your review of this time sensitive request. I look forward to your swift response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
12.20.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the release of the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico’s report: “The Task Force has put forth a robust set of recommendations for Puerto Rico that, if enacted, would represent powerful change for those that call the island home. In doing so, the Task Force has bridged many divides and has come together in a bipartisan manner for the good of Puerto Ricans. In this regard, I want to thank Chairman Hatch for his leadership and recognize all of the Members for their hard work and input in crafting this report. However, make no mistake, much work needs to be done to turn these ideas into law. “The most critical recommendations in this report regard funding for the island’s health care system, which is severely stressed. The report calls for Congress to enact legislation to address Puerto Rico’s Medicaid crisis and to stabilize its Medicare program, including Medicare Advantage, which accounts for 50 percent of all health care dollars on the island. “I am proud that the report also calls for an expansion of the child tax credit. It is projected that this change could channel nearly $3 billion to the island’s economy over the next ten years, helping more than 400,000 children. “I was also pleased by the inclusion of a number of small business provisions I authored, which will provide a path for the island to embrace entrepreneurship and create greater opportunity for those who live there. One such provision would increase the availability of small business loans on the island, while reducing their cost to borrowers. Additionally, the report calls for a local contracting preference for Puerto Rican businesses. This would help reverse the trend that sees prime federal contracts awarded to firms located on the mainland, only to see the island’s firms hired as subcontractors. Together, increasing the flow of capital and contracts to the island has real promise to create economic growth and the jobs the island needs. “Finally, the Task Force also agreed on the importance of accelerating the restoration of Caño Martín Peña. Doing so will not only improve the economy, but it will help protect our environment and the public health. We have a moral obligation to ensure this distressed area is not left behind. “Now that the Congressional Task Force has acted, it is incumbent on the new Congress to begin enacting recommendations quickly. Puerto Ricans have suffered for far too long and I will be working with my colleagues to see these measures passed into law.” A summary of the Task Force’s recommendations prepared by the offices of Reps. Velázquez and Pierluisi (D-PR) is below. The full report is available online here.Summary of Puerto Rico Task Force Report Key Recommendations Health Care Medicaid • The TF recommends that Congress enact fiscally-responsible legislation to address the impending Medicaid cliff. The TF recommends that Congress begin to address the funding issue early in 2017 to enable PR’s Medicaid agency—ASES—to engage with more certainty when signing contracts with its Medicaid managed care organizations for PR Fiscal Year 2017-2018. The TF recommends that, going forward, federal financing of the Medicaid programs in PR should be more closely tied to the size and needs of its low-income population. The TF recommends that any additional federal Medicaid funding provided to PR be paired with appropriate oversight of and safeguards on PR’s Medicaid program through use of the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU) and Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) mechanisms. Medicare • The TF recommends various steps to improve PR’s treatment under Medicare Part A (hospital services), Part B (physician services), Part C (Medicare Advantage), and Part D (prescription drug coverage). o On Part A, the TF recommends that Congress consider providing increased flexibility to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to ensure that island hospitals are being fairly compensated under a federal program that provides extra payments to hospitals that treat a large percentage of low-income and other vulnerable patients. o On Part B, the TF recommends that Congress amend federal law so that Medicare beneficiaries in PR are automatically enrolled in Medicare Part B with the option to opt out of coverage, the same way their counterparts in every state and other territory are treated. Thousands of island seniors are paying lifetime late penalties as a result of PR’s disparate treatment in current law. o On Part C, the TF notes that 75 percent of Medicare beneficiaries in PR are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan, the highest penetration rate in the nation. The TF recommends that Congress and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) consider whether additional legislative or administrative steps may be warranted to ensure that MA plans in PR are being fairly and properly compensated for the services they provide to beneficiaries. o On Part D, Medicare beneficiaries in the states with incomes at or below 150 percent of the federal poverty level are eligible to receive a low-income subsidy (LIS) from the federal government, which eliminates or reduces their monthly premium and other costs related to prescription drug coverage. Low-income seniors in PR are not eligible for the LIS. Instead, PR receives a relatively small annual block grant, under the enhanced allotment program (EAP), which it can use to help low-income seniors afford prescription drugs. PR must pay 45 cents in order to draw down 55 cents of EAP funding. Because of PR’s difficult fiscal condition, it has recently been unable to access about half of its $50 million in annual EAP funding. The TF recommends that Congress eliminate the matching requirement for PR and that Congress consider increasing the annual EAP allotment by a reasonable amount and in a fiscally responsible manner, so that the allotment is more closely tethered to actual need in PR. In addition, the TF recommends that Congress explore the feasibility and cost of extending LIS to residents of PR and eliminating the EAP program. o The TF recommends that Congress consider giving CMS the authority to make adjustments to any formula providing for payments to physicians, hospitals or health plans in PR, where the formula is dependent in whole or in part on data that are unavailable or unreliable for PR, or dependent on factors that are inapplicable to PR. Family-to-Family Health Information Center Grant Program • F2F centers are non-profit organizations operated by families with children with special health care needs. They help other families of children with special health care needs navigate the health care system. The TF recommends that Congress consider amending the law authorizing the program to enable PR to receive funding for a center. Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program • This program supports home visiting services for families with young children who reside in communities that have concentrations of poor child health. Home visits are conducted by nurses, mental health clinicians, social workers, and others with specialized training. The funding formula established by HRSA is based in part on the relative share of children under age five in families at or below 100 percent of the federal poverty line living in each state and territory. However, the poverty data are derived from the U.S. Census Bureau’s Small Area Income Poverty Estimates, which are not available for the territories, resulting in allocations to PR that are insufficient. The TF recommends that HRSA utilize an appropriate alternative source for child poverty data, such as the PR Community Survey, when making allocations to PR. Federal Tax Policy • The TF recommends that Congress amend IRC Section 24 to authorize otherwise eligible families in PR with one or two children to claim the additional child tax credit, providing them with the same treatment that is currently provided to island families with three or more children. It has been estimated that this proposal could inject $2.9 billion into PR’s economy over the next decade, benefitting about 355,000 families and 404,000 children, with an average annual household payment of $770. • The TF does not intend to foreclose debate on whether further modifications to federal tax policy toward individuals and families in PR may be appropriate. Potential options for examination include: (1) authorizing PR families to claim the additional child tax credit without any limitation; (2) extending the earned income tax credit to eligible PR households, and (3) providing federal wage subsidies to employees and employers in PR. • The TF recommends that Congress make the full amount of the rum cover-over payment to PR permanent, rather than permanent in part and subject to periodic extension by Congress in part. The TF recommends that Congress increase the cover-over payment from the current rate of $13.25 per proof gallon to the generally applicable distilled spirits rate, currently $13.50 per proof gallon. • The TF recommends that Congress amend the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 domestic production activities deduction so that it applies to PR on a permanent basis. This deduction reduces federal taxes for U.S. companies that operate in PR in branch form. • The TF recommends that Congress amend Internal Revenue Code Section 181 so that film and television producers can receive the same tax benefit for filming in PR that they receive for filming in the 50 states. • The TF believes that PR is too often relegated to an afterthought in congressional deliberations over federal business tax reform legislation. The TF recommends that Congress make PR integral to any future deliberations over tax reform legislation. • The TF recommends that Congress continue to be mindful of the fact that PR is a U.S. jurisdiction, home to U.S. citizens, and that jobs in PR are American jobs. • The Task Force is open to the prospect of Congress providing U.S. companies that invest in Puerto Rico with more competitive tax treatment as long as appropriate guardrails are designed to ensure the company is creating real economic activity and employment on the island. SSI/AABD • The SSI program provides monthly benefits directly to low-income aged, blind, or disabled persons in the 50 states, DC, and the Northern Mariana Islands. PR participates in a federal program called AABD, which is administered by ACF within HHS. The TF believes that it is important for Congress to debate the adequacy of the AABD program in PR. The TF reviewed the historical record and was unable to identify a hearing conducted in Congress on this issue. The TF recommends that Congress examine the costs and benefits of: (1) including PR in the SSI program with full benefits; (2) including PR in the SSI program with reduced benefits; (3) increasing the annual AABD grant provided to PR; (4) indexing the AABD and TANF caps to inflation; or (5) maintaining current law. Support for Small Businesses • The TF recommends that Congress take a number of actions to improve PR’s treatment under programs administered by the Small Business Administration (SBA). Among the recommendations are to: o temporarily increase the percentage of a small business loan that SBA guarantees in PR, o temporarily eliminate or reduce fees that firms in PR must pay to receive an SBA-approved loan, o consider providing PR with a contracting preference to address the fact that about 60 percent of (the relatively few) federal contracts performed in PR are awarded to firms located outside of PR, and o authorize SBA to make loans available to help small firms in a state or territory recover from any substantial economic injuries they have experienced as a result of health-related travel advisories, such as those issued by the CDC in connection with Zika. Energy • The TF recommends that the government of PR continue efforts to make operational reforms at PREPA, improve the efficiency of electricity generation and transmission, and diversify PR’s energy supply—with the ultimate goal of making electric power more reliable and affordable. • The TF recommends that PREPA and the PR Energy Commission seek technical assistance from USDOE, and recommends that USDOE provide all authorized forms of technical and financial assistance. • A federal law requires the U.S. Department of Energy to appoint a team of technical, policy and financial experts to develop an “energy action plan” for PR. The TF recommends that USDOE appoint a team of experts as soon as practicable, that the team prepare and publish the plan in a timely manner, and that USDOE annually update Congress on the efforts that PR has made to implement the plan. • The TF recommends that USDOE assess whether PR receives equitable treatment relative to other jurisdictions under grant programs for energy-related research and, if it does not, recommends that USDOE resolve any inequities. Former Naval Station Roosevelt Roads • The TF recommends that the government of PR, in conjunction with the Revitalization Coordinator established in PROMESA, elected leaders of the surrounding communities, federal government partners, and the private sector, prioritize the redevelopment of the NSRR. The TF recommends that the LRA responsible for overseeing the redevelopment effort develop a sensible and sustained strategy. Caño Martín Peña (Martín Peña Channel) • The TF believes that the project to restore CMP can provide a significant return on investment for the federal government in terms of improving the economy, protecting public health, and restoring the natural environment in some of PR’s most distressed communities. The TF recommends that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the non-federal sponsor (ENLACE) finalize the Project Partnership Agreement for the project as soon as feasible; that Congress consider appropriating funding to construct this project; and that Congress consider relaxing the cost-sharing obligations of the non-federal sponsor or otherwise taking steps to ensure that the government of PR’s fiscal crisis does not result in progress on this project being halted. Arecibo Observatory • The TF recognizes that the Arecibo Observatory is vital to PR in a variety of ways, and believes that science-focused and education-focused operations should be continued at the site. The TF recommends that the National Science Foundation, in collaboration with other government and non-government stakeholders, take all feasible steps to achieve this result. Municipal Solid Waste Landfills • The TF is concerned with the state of PR’s municipal solid waste landfills, and the potential impact on public health and the environment. The TF recommends that Congress examine this issue to determine whether there are additional steps that should be taken. U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis • The TF recommends that BEA calculate Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for PR, just as BEA does for every other U.S. state and territory. The TF recommends that the federal government fund this effort. The TF believes that BEA’s longer-term objective should be to include PR in BEA’s national-level GDP estimates. International Trade Administration • The TF recommends that ITA take all reasonable steps to educate stakeholders in PR about the multiple services that ITA provides to increase foreign direct investment, exports, and travel and tourism by foreign nationals, including by holding educational or technical assistance events in PR. • The TF recommends that the government of PR consider whether the benefits of operating its own trade offices in other nations outweigh the costs, particularly if these benefits can be realized by tapping into existing ITA resources and expertise. • The TF recommends that the government of PR publish annual statistics about foreign direct investment on the island, disaggregating the data so that investment from the U.S. mainland and investment from foreign nations are tabulated separately. • The U.S. Travel and Tourism Advisory Board advises the Secretary of Commerce on matters relating to the travel and tourism industry in the U.S.. The TF recommends that the Secretary take reasonable steps to appoint at least one member who has special expertise on tourism in PR. • The TF recommends that the private operator of the San Juan international airport, the PR Ports Authority, and the PR Tourism Company work with ITA with the goal of authorizing the Survey of International Air Travelers to be conducted at the airport, to help PR develop a strategy to attract visitors from foreign nations. Economic Development Administration • The TF recommends that a PR-based Economic Development Representative (an EDA employee) begin work as soon as possible, providing technical assistance and identifying projects on the island that may be suitable for EDA support. The goal should be to ensure that the quantity of EDA grants to PR-based applicants more closely corresponds with the size of PR’s population and the scale of its economic development needs. • PR, with technical assistance from EDA, is preparing its 2017 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS). The TF recommends that the CEDS Committee obtain input from stakeholders in private and non-profit sectors. The TF recommends that that Committee, once the CEDS has been approved by EDA, make the CEDS available on-line and otherwise publicize the CEDS to stakeholders on the island, in the U.S. mainland, and abroad. • Over 80 percent of the food consumed in PR is transported to the island from the U.S. mainland and foreign countries, and an extended disruption in maritime trade could result in PR’s supply of food being exhausted within a matter of weeks. The TF recommends that stakeholders explore the possibility of conducting an EDA-funded study aimed at increasing food security and self-sufficiency in PR, as was done in Hawaii. Electronic Export Information • The TF recommends that the U.S. Department of Commerce conduct a thorough evaluation of its regulations requiring Electronic Export Information (EEI) filings for shipments between the states and PR. U.S. Department of the Treasury • The TF recommends various steps designed to enable PR-based entities to better compete for competitive funding under multiple programs administered by the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund, including the New Markets Tax Credit program. For example, the director of the CDFI Fund is advised by a 15-member Community Development Advisory Board. The TF recommends that the CDFI Fund make efforts to appoint an individual to the Board with personal experience and specialized expertise in the unique lending and community development issues facing PR. • The TF recommends that Congress continue to authorize the Treasury Department to provide technical assistance to the government of PR, in order to help it stabilize and strengthen its financial management and tax collection systems. Investor Protection • The TF recommends that Congress pass the U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act of 2016, which would, after a period of time, terminate the current exemption from the Investment Company Act of 1940 for investment companies located in PR. Federal Statistical Programs • The TF recommends that federal statistical agencies take all reasonable steps to include PR in its statistical programs. Federal Interagency Advisory Council on Child Poverty • As proposed by the Boys and Girls Clubs of PR and the Youth Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo de la Juventud), the TF recommends that the federal government consider establishing an advisory council to report to Congress on ways to address persistent child poverty in the United States, including its territories. Public Safety • The TF recommends that Congress continue to exercise oversight authority to ensure that federal agencies are working in coordination with each another, and with local law enforcement officials, to reduce drug trafficking and associated violence in PR and the USVI. • The TF recommends that Congress make permanent the requirement that ONDCP publish a Caribbean Border Counternarcotics Strategy. PR’s Political Status • If the government of PR conducts a plebiscite authorized and funded by Public Law 113-76, the TF recommends that Congress analyze the result of this plebiscite with care and seriousness of purpose, and take any appropriate legislative action. # # #
12.20.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Brendan Dugan: “Like many New Yorkers, I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Brendan Dugan, a strong champion for expanding educational opportunity. As the President of St. Francis College, he strived tirelessly to help more working families secure an affordable, quality education. “Even before coming to St. Francis, he played a transformative role in Brooklyn and New York, starting with his four decades in commercial banking. While he was active in business, Brendan always maintained a humble demeanor, finding ways to give back to his community, in keeping with his deep Catholic faith and values. “My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Barbara, his children and grandchildren and all those who knew and loved him. It is my hope that they find comfort in the many achievements he made for Brooklyn and the thousands of lives he affected so positively. His contributions will be remembered by us all.”
12.19.2016	Washington, DC – With the snow season upon us, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote the New York Department of Sanitation (DSNY) calling for better snow cleanup in Woodhaven, Ozone Park and Ridgewood. Her letter calls for stronger coordination between DSNY, the Office of Emergency Management, the Department of Transportation and other city agencies to ensure more timely snow removal in neighborhoods that have previously seen significant delays. The text of the letter is below. Kathryn Garcia, Commissioner New York Department of Sanitation 125 Worth Street New York, NY 10013 Dear Commissioner Garcia, It is with great concern for the safety and the mobility of New Yorkers that I am writing to you. With the snow season upon us, it is critical that the Department of Sanitation New York (DSNY) be prepared with a robust and aggressive snow removal action plan for all New Yorkers but particularly for the communities I represent in Congressional District 7 including Woodhaven, Ozone Park and Ridgewood. These neighborhoods are among those most severely burdened by inefficient snow removal last year. As you know, and as was reported on the news, last winter streets in the Woodhaven, Ozone Park and additional neighboring communities were not plowed for days - leaving many local residents stranded and unable to get to their jobs, school and even to the grocery store. Oversized plows got stuck in the snow along secondary streets making it challenging for residents, small business and emergency vehicles to access the roads. My office received numerous calls from New Yorkers very concerned and in need of assistance – a situation some residents were in for over two weeks. I understand that during the winter season your agency may encounter unforeseen challenges. However, I urge DSNY to ensure adequate staffing levels and that equipment is fully functional to meet the demands of an efficient and effective snow removal process. I encourage strong coordination with the Office of Emergency Management, the Department of Transportation and other city agencies to make certain all New Yorkers in every neighborhood receive timely snow removal efforts. Doing so will ensure a smooth and safe operation for New York’s Strongest and our communities. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. I look forward to hearing back from you. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
12.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) called for Congressional hearings into whether President-elect Trump’s financial interests pose potential conflicts of interest once he takes office. In a letter to Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Velázquez said that the Committee should convene hearings in the new Congress before the President-elect is inaugurated. The full text of the letter is below. December 16, 2016 The Honorable Jason Chaffetz Chairman House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Chaffetz: I urge you to convene a hearing before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to investigate potential business conflicts of interest that may arise in the incoming Trump Administration. It is my belief that such a hearing should occur within the first weeks of the 115th Congress and before the President-elect is inaugurated. As you know, Mr. Trump and his companies have substantial commercial relationships spanning the globe. Should Mr. Trump fail to fully divest from his business organizations while in the White House, this arrangement raises troubling questions about whether the incoming President might be influenced by personal financial interests. While the President of the United States is legally exempted from many conflict-of-interest statutes, most previous Presidents with significant financial interests have placed their business assets into a blind trust. Members of Congress strive to identify and steer away from potential conflicts of interest and they are legally required to fill out financial disclosure forms. This disclosure, provided by all Members of Congress, contains information “summarizing financial information concerning themselves, their spouses, and dependent children… these statements must disclose outside compensation, investments and assets, and business transactions.” By contrast, President-Elect Trump has refused to release his taxes and has postponed an official announcement about his plans for his business interests, while he is in office. Such actions are not only unacceptable—they undermine our democratic principles of government and cast doubt on the legitimacy of policy decisions that will be made by the incoming Administration. It is imperative the American people know whether their newly elected president has business relationships that potentially influence domestic and foreign policy. Mr. Trump has previously talked about unifying our country. This can only be achieved with trust and transparency, requiring a complete review and disclosure of any and all business interests. You and your committee can play a major role in accomplishing this goal. I look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding funding in the Continuing Resolution for security costs at Trump Tower: “It’s shameful Congressional Republicans would saddle New York City taxpayers with the bulk of the cost for securing the President-Elect and the First Family at Trump Tower. The Presidency is a federal office and New Yorkers should not be forced to bear these costs alone. “Yesterday, Members of the New York Delegation heard from NYPD representatives who detailed why it is so costly and complicated to secure this location. With 7,000 pedestrians passing through this area hourly, the Trump Tower location is one of the busiest intersections in the world. Yet House Republicans are proposing only one-fifth of the security funds the City said would be needed. “Now that Republicans in Congress have abdicated this basic responsibility, the question remains – will President-Elect Trump chip in for the cost of maintaining a second, full-time residence? The fact is if the entire First Family relocated to the White House, this problem would be solved with minimal expense for taxpayers. If Mr. Trump chooses to have a full-time, second residence - located at one of the busiest intersections in the world - then he should use his own significant personal resources to help shoulder the security costs. I will continue asking the Mayor to make this case to the President-Elect.” On Monday, Velázquez wrote the Mayor and the Governor on this topic saying City taxpayers should not be required to shoulder the costs of securing a second, full-time residence for the President-Elect. That letter is online here.
12.05.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding passage of H.R. 6427, legislation that would extend to investors and retirees in Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories the same protections afforded to those on the U.S. mainland: “For too long, investors in Puerto Rico have not been granted the protections they deserve, due to an archaic loophole in the law. The legislation approved today would ensure basic investment law safeguards apply in Puerto Rico and throughout the U.S. territories. “Passage of this bill brings us one step closer to ensuring regulatory parity and protecting investors and retirees from potentially unscrupulous financial practices. I thank my colleagues for supporting this measure and look forward to seeing it swiftly approved in the Senate.” The Puerto Rico-related provisions contained in H.R. 6427 are modeled in part on H.R. 3610, legislation introduced by Velázquez last year. H.R. 6427 passed the House by a vote of 391 to 2. Velázquez, who represents New York’s 7th Congressional District, is the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress.
12.05.2016	Washington, DC –Six Members of the New York City delegation today wrote to Governor Andrew Cuomo (D-NY) and Mayor Bill De Blasio (D-NY) asking the State and City refuse to pay for enhanced security at Trump Tower once President-Elect Trump is inaugurated. In their letter, which was authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the lawmakers argue that if the First Family chooses to maintain two full time residences, then the President-Elect should pay for security costs. “While I understand the absolute importance of keeping the First Family safe, New Yorkers shouldn’t be footing the bill for President-Elect Trump to maintain two permanent residences,” said Velázquez. “If the incoming First Family were to relocate to the White House with the President-Elect, this problem could be solved, but, if that’s not possible, then Mr. Trump needs to pick up the tab.” In addition to Velázquez, the letter was also signed by New York City Reps. Meng, Nadler, Clarke, Serrano and Jeffries. The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Andrew M. Cuomo Governor of New York State NYS State Capitol Building Albany, NY 12224 The Honorable Bill de Blasio Mayor of New York City City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio: We are writing to express concerns about taxpayer costs of providing security at Trump Tower. At least one publicly reported estimate suggests it is costing New York City as much as $1 million per day to provide adequate security for President-Elect Trump and his family. Our concerns are compounded by news that members of the President Elect’s immediate family have stated they plan to remain in New York City for the foreseeable future even after President-Elect Trump relocates to the White House. This decision to maintain multiple permanent residences will mean additional expense for the City and taxpayer dollars being spent on ongoing security enhancements. These local resources could be spent more wisely on countless other investments such as: expanding the stock of affordable housing in New York; addressing looming transportation problems like the upcoming closures of the L and M trains; providing emergency shelter for the city’s burgeoning homeless population; investing in greater climate resiliency for waterfront neighborhoods; hiring additional teachers in public schools; or simply making the city safer for ordinary citizens by deploying police officers into areas with elevated crime rates. Beyond the cost to taxpayers, enhanced security at Fifth Avenue between East 55th and East 57th streets is generating traffic congestion. Not only does this inconvenience City residents and visitors, but it likely incurs a negative economic impact on local retailers and other businesses that rely on foot traffic for customers. With both New Yorkers and tourists avoiding the area, these businesses will suffer a loss of revenue. As you are aware, the President-Elect and his family could receive excellent security by choosing to reside at the White House. This solution would keep the President-Elect and his family safe, while minimizing federal and local taxpayer expense. To be clear: we understand the absolute importance of keeping the incoming First Family safe. However, municipal or state resources should not be subsidizing the President Elect’s decision to maintain multiple permanent residences. For all these reasons, we respectfully request that New York City and the State refuse to pay additional security costs associated with maintaining a second permanent residence at Trump Tower once the President-Elect is inaugurated. Should the President-Elect choose to maintain two permanent residences for his family, it is reasonable to request he reimburse the city and the state for all additional security expenses from his own significant personal financial resources. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your timely responses. Sincerely, # # #
12.05.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) released the following statement regarding news that President-Elect Trump has selected Dr. Ben Carson to serve as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): “I have grave concerns with the selection of Dr. Carson to be HUD Secretary. Dr. Carson has neither the experience nor the policy knowledge to effectively run this agency, which is vital to millions of New Yorkers and Americans. Housing is a fundamental human right and how HUD operates very directly affects the daily lives of working families. “While I have serious reservations about this nomination, I will continue working with the agency to advocate for working families’ housing needs, especially in low-vacancy areas like New York City.”
12.05.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote to President Obama asking that he grant clemency to of Oscar López Rivera. The full text of the letter is below. December 2, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As your eight years in office comes to an end, I wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for all that you have done for our nation. The passage of the Affordable Care Act, Dodd-Frank, and more recently PROMESA, has shown your willingness and courage to take on America’s greatest challenges. But your legacy will be more than these landmark laws; you have given voice to those that cannot be heard. There is still unfinished business, however, for the Puerto Rican people – and that is the plight of Oscar López Rivera and the need for you to grant him executive clemency. At his advanced age, continued detention is unnecessary. The sentence granted to him is disproportionate for a “seditious conspiracy” charge; he did not kill anyone and is not a threat to society. In many ways, Oscar López Rivera is a symbol for all Puerto Ricans, whether on the island or among the diaspora. For us, his struggle is our struggle. As a child growing up in Puerto Rico, I have witnessed the deep and powerful political divisions over the island’s status, seeing people moved to anger and outrage. I left the island at the age of 19 to go to graduate school in New York City and after completing my studies, returned to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and confronted the very same disillusionment regarding political status that continues to define our island. Despite the political turmoil and the fiscal crisis, there is one unifying hope among Puerto Ricans and that is for you to grant executive clemency for Oscar López Rivera. We stand as one with him because he represents the pain, the emotion, and the journey that all Puerto Ricans have and are living. It is rewarding to say that despite all the cynicism associated with our predicament, his sense of dignity and humanity has brought the island together, even though he is locked up in a federal prison. It is for this reason, and in the spirit of the holidays, that I ask you to bring Puerto Rico’s son, Oscar López Rivera, home to his family and to the people of Puerto Rico. Given all the island has endured - from the economic crisis to Zika- taking this step would be a powerful symbol of hope when Puerto Rico needs it most. Thank you for your attention to this request and for your service to our country. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
11.22.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) released the following statement regarding reports that Anti-Semitic symbols including swastikas and “KKK” had been scrawled in the stairwells of Independence Towers, public housing located in Williamsburg’s Orthodox Jewish neighborhood: “All of us must speak with a collective voice in making clear there is no place for these despicable actions and demanding that the authorities investigate swiftly. While it is my fear that irresponsible rhetoric and a toxic national political environment can engender these types of acts, I also firmly believe that New York is a City that cherishes diversity – and we will stand together in renouncing these actions.” Last week, Velázquez introduced H.R. 6328, legislation that would establish a national hate crimes hotline and also provide federal funds to help local law enforcement prevent and prosecute hate crimes.
11.17.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement after Brooklyn’s Community Board 7 (CB 7) voted unanimously to endorse her legislation, the “Landlord Accountability Act”: “Housing rights are human rights and this measure is designed to end the abuses we’ve heard tenants are enduring throughout New York City. We need to work together at all levels of government to protect renters from unscrupulous landlord practices and I’m honored Community Board 7 has seen fit to support my legislation. I’ll continue working in the new Congress to push these reforms forward.” Velázquez introduced the legislation in June and the bill garnered support from New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman and a wide range of community groups. A description of the bill’s provisions is available online here. # # #
11.17.2016	Measure Announced Following Spike in Acts Nationally, 31% Rise in NYC Washington, DC – Following a rash of hate crimes across the country and public reports that such acts are on the rise in New York City, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation to establish a federal “Hate Crimes Hotline.” The bill, H.R. 6328, the “National Hate Crimes Hotline Act of 2016” would also invest in online assistance for victims of bias-based violence and better educate law enforcement on preventing such crimes. “Like most New Yorkers, I’ve been shocked and saddened by the rising tide of hate crimes seen throughout the country in recent weeks and months,” Velázquez noted. “This bill will improve reporting of these horrific acts and invest in community resources to prevent and prosecute them.” The most recent data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation found an increase of hate crimes with 5,850 incidents reported to police in 2015, a 6.8 percent increase over 2014. The same report found anti-Muslim hate crimes rose by 67% over the course of a year. Incidents targeting the Jewish community had risen 9%. In New York City, the police department said yesterday that the number of hate crimes has risen 31.5 percent in 2016 compared to 2015 numbers. “These numbers are astonishing and terrifying,” Velázquez noted. “Irresponsible rhetoric and a toxic environment can engender harmful, violent consequences and I fear we are seeing some of that play out.” Under Velázquez’s measure, the U.S. Attorney General would be charged with establishing a national, toll-free hotline so hate crimes could be more centrally reported. An analysis from June by the Associated Press suggested that these crimes go heavily underreported with 2,800 local police departments failing to report any hate crimes in a year. The bill would also establish a secure Internet site to facilitate reporting of these acts. “The first part of solving any problem requires admitting there is one,” Velázquez noted. “We need a mechanism for improving the reporting of these crimes so that we can better tackle the problem.” The bill would also invest federal resources in improving training for local law enforcement to solve hate crimes and partner with groups whose members are at risk. “No one should be made to feel unsafe because of their race, religion, documentation status, gender, or sexual orientation,” Velázquez added. “We need to work at all levels of government to stamp out hate crimes and this bill will take important steps toward that goal.” Velázquez’s Congressional District, New York’s 7th, is widely recognized as one of the most diverse in the country, at one point being home to speakers of 86 different languages. With Congress slated to leave in a few weeks after completing its budget work, Velázquez promised to reintroduce her bill when the body reconvenes in January. “Sadly, the problem of hate crimes appears to be growing, not fading,” Velázquez concluded. “I fully intend to push this legislation forward as we move into 2017.”
11.15.2016	PLAN WOULD HAVE RAISED RENT COSTS FOR THOUSANDS; NOW, METRO AREAS LIKE NYC CAN BREATHE SIGH OF RELIEF WITH ‘SAFMR’ AXED FOR CITY; NO ONE WILL BE FORCED TO MOVE FROM NEIGHBORHOODS THEY LOVE Earlier This Year, Velázquez & Schumer Urged HUD to Revise ‘Small Area Fair Market Rent Rule’ & Work With Affordable Housing Community in NYC Lawmakers Announce: HUD’s Revised Rule Will Make Any Metro Area--With Vacancy Rate of 4 Percent or Lower—Exempt from SAFMR Rule; New York City’s Vacancy Rate is 3.45 Percent; Big Win For City & Working Families New York City– U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) announced that, after their push earlier this year, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will be exempting New York City from the agency’s new Small Area Fair Market Rent (SAMFR) rule for Section 8 voucher holders. Under HUD’s original proposal, New York City housing experts estimated that rental assistance payments under the Section 8 program would decrease for more than 55,000 voucher holders across New York City. Under HUD’s revision of the rule, metropolitan areas with a vacancy rate of 4 percent or lower will be exempted, including New York City which has a vacancy rate of 3.45 percent. “This plan was a terrible fit for New York City all along and I am pleased we worked with the Secretary to find a solution,” Velázquez said. “More New Yorkers are going to be able to stay in their homes because of this exemption and that’s no small victory for working families in our City.” “There’s no place like home, and today’s win will keep it that way for thousands of New Yorkers,” said U.S. Senator Charles Schumer. “Under HUD’s revised rule, thousands of working families can now breathe a sigh of a relief because New York City will be exempt from a rule that really made no sense here, a rule that could have raised rent costs and displaced people who loved their neighborhoods. In a place like New York City, where the vacancy rate is below 4 percent, the outcome of the SAFMR rule could have been detrimental. I am pleased that HUD heeded the call by going back to the drawing board and hammering out a new plan that works for our tenants, families and seniors, as well as the affordable housing community.” In August, Schumer and Velázquez led the New York City delegation in writing to the Department calling for fixes to the new “market rate” system of distributing vouchers that the agency was developing. In their letter, the two argued that the plan would have a devastating outcome for New York City. You can find the original letter online here:https://velazquez.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/velazquez-schumer-question-section-8-changes
11.14.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that President-Elect Trump has selected Stephen Bannon to serve as Chief Strategist at the White House: “Stephen Bannon has a well-documented record of espousing hateful and divisive rhetoric. Those who would make vile comments targeting our neighbors based on their race, gender, orientation or immigration status have no place in the White House and this extends to Mr. Bannon. “President-Elect Trump has vowed to bring our nation together, but the selection of Mr. Bannon is a sign that division and hatred is being brought to the White House. I strongly urge President-Elect Trump to reconsider this decision.”
11.03.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has filed a lawsuit against a Manhattan property manager for harassing rent-regulated tenants in Chinatown and the Lower East Side: “Access to affordable, livable housing is a fundamental human right. I applaud Attorney General Schneiderman for taking these steps to protect tenants, keep them in their homes and put an end to landlord abuses. If the allegations in this suit are true, they are disturbing and it is my hope the Attorney General uses all legal remedies to end this tenant harassment.” As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Velázquez has made housing and tenants’ rights two of her signature issues. In June, she introduced the “Landlord Accountability Act”, a measure to protect tenants from unscrupulous behaviors by landlords. That legislation was endorsed by Attorney General Schneiderman.
10.20.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s decision to revise the flood maps for New York City: “I am pleased to see FEMA’s recent decision to go back to the drawing board and revise New York City’s flood maps in coming years. This decision is expected to save ordinary New Yorkers tens of millions of dollars in flood insurance premium payments that would have otherwise been required based on faulty maps. Not only will revised maps provide New York City residents with more accurate data on current flood risk, they will also better reflect the future risk of climate change and sea level rise. “As Congress works to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program next year, it is important to ensure that flood insurance remains accessible and affordable for all New Yorkers. I am committed to working with all interested parties to achieve this goal.”
10.19.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is looking for answers about conditions at the Brooklyn Metropolitan Detention Center. In a letter to the Bureau of Prisons and the Center, Velázquez has asked about reports of substandard conditions, particularly affecting female inmates. “We have a responsibility to ensure our prisons and jails live up to humane standards and reports of moldy food, lack of light and poor air quality are alarming,” Velázquez said. “I hope to hear how these problems are being resolved, swiftly.” The text of Velázquez’s letter is below. Michael Carvajal Regional Director, Northeast Region Federal Bureau of Prisons U.S. Custom House, 7th Floor Philadelphia, PA 19106 Herman Quay Warden Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn 80 29th Street Brooklyn, NY 11232 Dear Regional Director Carvajal and Warden Quay: I am writing to highlight reports of alleged cultural and management issues at the Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC) in Brooklyn, NY. The issues in question have been noted by the National Association of Women Judges’ (NAWJ) June 3, 2016 report. The most recent published account comes after the group’s previous visit on March 20, 2015 and summarized first-hand observations and inmate accounts. At the time of the report’s publishing, the MDC in Brooklyn held 111 women who had been sentenced and transferred from the previous Danbury Correctional Facility in Danbury, CT. During their time at the Brooklyn MDC, these inmates helped expose the alleged dismal state of affairs at the facility. There were 161 women held at the MDC in two large, windowless rooms. It is my understanding that the transferred inmates may have not been properly oriented to the facility and its program offerings. The report cites a Female Program Overview brochure, which listed seven employment opportunities and 12 staff-led programs focusing on relevant topics such as drug abuse, psychology and trauma. Unfortunately, few female inmates expressed knowing about the existence of these opportunities. Generally the female inmates, including those that have been transferred from the previous security complex, outlined the following conditions and concerns: 1. The provision of spoiled and moldy food to inmates; 2. Inadequate dissemination of employment and program offerings outlined in the “Female Program Overview;” 3. Lack of fresh air and sunshine; 4. Limited exercise opportunities; 5. Substandard building air quality, which has allegedly led to deteriorating interior conditions; and 6. Inadequate medical services, with a significant lack of obstetrical and gynecological (OB-GYN) services for women. Such grievances have drawn the attention of Brooklyn Magistrate Judge Cheryl Pollak. The Judge has publically gone on record noting how uncomfortable she feels sending inmates to the Brooklyn MDC in light of the conditions reported by the NAWJ. Given the alleged grievances about the physical and cultural state of affairs at Brooklyn MDC, I request that the Bureau provide answers to the following questions: 1. What efforts have been made at the Brooklyn MDC to inform female inmates about employment opportunities and other programs noted in the “Female Program Overview?” 2. Has the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) made any recent efforts to provide or improve access to OB-GYN services to inmates given the Brooklyn MDC’s claims that it cannot find physicians who are willing to work in a New York prison? 3. Given the shortage of available physicians, what strategies does BOP employ when handling similar situations at other MDCs? 4. Other than the aforementioned claim, are there any specific limitations that make it more difficult to provide this access to care at Brooklyn? 5. I understand that site limitations can be a concern for allowing inmates to move freely, but what is the long term plan for the Brooklyn MDC facility to ensure improved air quality, adequate sunlight and exercise, in particular, for female inmates? I appreciate the BOP’s collective efforts to evaluate and remedy, to the best extent possible, these concerns. I look forward to corresponding with you and collaborating on these efforts going forward. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
10.18.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote today to the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) regarding a Department of Investigation study that found neglect of smoke alarms and fire protocols at the LaGuardia Houses, and other New York City public housing apartments. The DOI report also found that NYCHA maintenance staff has falsified a number of documents claiming to have performed safety checks when, in fact, they had not. “If NYCHA employees are falsifying work orders and other documentation related to fire safety, there needs to be a full accounting of the facts,” Velázquez said. “I hope to hear back from the agency swiftly on this critical safety issue.” The text of the letter is below: October 18, 2016 Shola Olatoye Chair, New York City Housing Authority 250 Broadway New York, NY 10007 Dear Chair Olatoye: I am deeply concerned about the findings in the October 2016 report conducted by the New York City Department of Investigation (“DOI”) which revealed routine neglect of smoke alarms and fire protocols in public housing apartments by the New York City Housing Authority (“NYCHA”) as well as the falsification of key documents by NYCHA maintenance staff. Safety and security of NYCHA residents remains my number one priority when it comes to public housing, and I am writing today to request further information in order to remediate the report’s findings as quickly as possible. On the night of April 13, 2016, an apartment fire at NYCHA’s Butler Houses in the Bronx killed two young girls. Neighbors and first responder witnesses were reported as not hearing smoke alarms at the time of the fire. This tragedy prompted the DOI to conduct an investigation of these events which discovered a NYCHA maintenance worker had been inside the apartment only hours before the fire, and filed false paperwork stating that he had tested the apartment’s smoke alarms and found they were functioning properly when, in fact, they were not. As you know, both NYCHA rules and New York City law require NYCHA to install at least one smoke detector in every apartment at tenant move-in, and NYCHA procedures require that smoke detectors be checked to determine they are operational each time that maintenance personnel enters a unit. In order to document these critical maintenance checks, NYCHA work orders require maintenance staff to document the presence and conditions of six critical apartment safety issues, including: the placement of fire safety procedure stickers on the inside of a unit’s door; a working Carbon Monoxide (“CO”) detector; proper placement of window guards; a working smoke detector; a functioning Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter outlet, where present; and a self-closing door. These safety checks must be completed and reported on NYCHA’s work order as “satisfactory,” “unsatisfactory,” or “corrective action” taken. Following the events of the Butler Houses’ fire, the DOI conducted a deeper investigation to determine whether NYCHA maintenance staff were inspecting, addressing, and reporting critical apartment safety items when assigned to conduct routine maintenance work in NYCHA units Citywide. DOI inspected a total of 240 apartments in five NYCHA developments around the City, including at the LaGuardia Houses on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, in order to review and document the condition of the six critical safety items. DOI investigators observed deficiencies in one or more of the six critical safety items in 128 of the 240 apartments, including numerous missing smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, and missing or damaged fire safety notices. The DOI also found that original NYCHA work orders had not been properly maintained by NYCHA management offices and could not be located. After comparing original work orders with DOI’s own inspection results, DOI investigators determined that in 40 out of 136 apartments where original work orders were available, NYCHA maintenance staff had failed to report that smoke or CO detectors were missing, damaged, or not functioning. At the LaGuardia Houses specifically, DOI conducted inspections of 43 apartment units where previous work orders had been performed and found 18 apartment units with observed safety deficiencies, and 5 out of 28 apartment units had discrepancies between NYCHA maintenance staff reports that reported smoke and CO alarms were functioning properly and DOI observations which revealed that they were not. The failure of NYCHA maintenance personnel and supervisory staff to properly report safety deficiencies, perform routine spot checks, properly maintain key documents, and falsify work orders is an egregious violation of public trust and exposes NYCHA residents at the LaGuardia Houses and other NYCHA developments to serious harm. While I appreciate NYCHA’s acceptance and willingness to implement the recommendations put forth by the DOI, which I believe will help provide NYCHA with more accountability in the future, a number of key pieces of information are still left unclear. Therefore, I am requesting the following pieces of information be made available to members of my staff: • When does NYCHA expect to complete full implementation of all five of the recommendations put forth by the DOI in its report? • Will NYCHA conduct its own investigation of all of the units at the LaGuardia Houses and the other NYCHA developments that were made part of the DOI’s report to ensure critical apartment safety issues are up-to-date and functioning properly? • What steps is NYCHA taking to promote fire safety and preparedness amongst NYCHA residents, particularly amongst children? • What steps is NYCHA taking to increase coordination with the New York City Fire Department in order decrease the FDNY’s response time to NYCHA developments? When it comes to public housing, there is no greater priority than protecting the health and safety of our families, friends, and neighbors. The findings in the DOI’s report are a danger to NYCHA residents and NYCHA must take the matter seriously. Thank you in advance for your efforts on this matter. Sincerely Yours, Nydia M. Velazquez Member of Congress Cc: Mark Peters, Commissioner, New York City Department of Investigations Daniel Nigro, Fire Commissioner, New York City Fire Department # # #
10.14.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Planned Parenthood reaching its 100th anniversary this Sunday, October 16: “For ten decades now, Planned Parenthood has been a trusted health care provider for women, a champion for reproductive freedom, and an informative resource for millions of men and women about sexual health. “Throughout their lives, at least one in five American women will choose Planned Parenthood for valuable, lifesaving services like hypertension screening, pap tests, and breast cancer screening. “Sadly, as we celebrate a century of achievement in advancing women’s health, Planned Parenthood is now under attack from Congressional Republicans. In the House, Republicans have voted six times to defund this organization, which is an anchor in so many communities. They formed a Select Panel to Attack Women’s health using misinformation and downright falsehoods in an attempt to demonize this vital health care provider. “These attacks will not stand. I remain steadfastly committed to ensuring all New Yorkers can access quality health services and part of that network must include organizations like Planned Parenthood. As we celebrate the 100 years this organization has been in existence, we pay tribute to its many achievements and we promise to stand arm-in-arm with them in continuing to defend reproductive rights of all Americans.” # # #
10.12.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote today to Mayor Bill de Blasio requesting a meeting to discuss the continued closure of Park Row. Park Row at Chatham Square has been closed to traffic since 9/11, a situation that has isolated Chinatown and caused economic hardship for local businesses. “The time for action on this issue is far overdue,” Velázquez said. “The Mayor needs to hear from the local community about how keeping this street closed has impacted businesses and residents. It’s my hope he will agree to this meeting so we can impress on him the importance of resolving this problem swiftly.” The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. October 12th, 2016 Mayor Bill de Blasio City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor de Blasio: As the representative of New York’s 7th Congressional District, I write to request a meeting to discuss the continued closure of Park Row. For many years the local community has been vocal about the significant hardships incurred as a result of this closure. For this reason, I ask that you meet with myself and key members of the Chinatown community to discuss how we can reclaim critical portions of Chinatown. As you know, ever since the attacks of September 11th, Park Row at Chatham Square has been closed to traffic for security reasons; this has isolated Chinatown from Lower Manhattan and crippled the local economy. Park Row is a vital thoroughfare for residents in my district, connecting two neighborhoods, Chinatown and the Financial District. Without that straightforward grid into Manhattan, tourism is impacted, as is the flows of revenue to local entrepreneurs. Traffic patterns are also altered, resulting in greater congestion. Residents of Chatham Green must provide identification each time they come home which is burdensome and presents challenges for deliveries and guests. As you may recall, this closure was intended to be temporary, and while many of the streets that were closed after 9/11 have since reopened, this key roadway remains an unfortunate exception – one that has drastically altered the way of life for the community for the worse. For more than a decade members of the community, including myself, have continuously raised the issue of the Park Row closure with the city administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the New York City Police Department. The time for a face-to-face, frank discussion with the key stakeholders is long overdue. I hope you will find time in your schedule to meet and address this important issue. Thank you in advance for your consideration and I look forwarding to working with you to help the Chinatown community resolve the Park Row issue once and for all. My staff will be in touch with your office to inquire about scheduling. In the meantime, should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 225-2361. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velazquez # # #
10.11.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Yom Kippur: “As members of the Jewish community in New York and across the nation join together to observe Yom Kippur, I wish peace and good blessings for all my Jewish friends and neighbors. This Day of Atonement is a time to reflect on the positive in life -- and on how we have overcome past challenges. In that spirit, I would urge all New Yorkers to reaffirm to caring for one another as we prepare for the year ahead. “Gmar Chatima Tova!” # # #
10.11.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led seventeen of her House colleagues in calling on regulatory agencies to investigate whether Wells Fargo’s unethical cross-selling practices and illegal opening of secret accounts extended to its small business lending division. As the Ranking Democrat of the House Small Business Committee and a senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Velázquez previously questioned Wells Fargo’s CEO about the topic at a Congressional hearing. The text of the letter, which was signed by members of the Financial Services and Small Business Committees, is below: The Honorable Maria Contreras-Sweet Administrator Small Business Administration 409 3rd Street SW, 2nd Floor Washington, DC 20024 The Honorable Richard Cordray Director Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 1700 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20552 The Honorable Thomas J. Curry Comptroller of the Currency Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 400 7th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20219 Dear Administrator Contreras-Sweet, Director Cordray, and Comptroller Curry: (MORE) We write to urge the Small Business Administration (“SBA”), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) to open investigations into potentially illegal actions stemming from incentive-based compensation practices at Wells Fargo in its SBA 7(a) and broader small business lending division. On September 8, 2016, the CFPB, OCC, and Los Angeles City Attorney announced settlements and fines totaling $185 million against Wells Fargo for secretly opening unauthorized deposit and credit card accounts. For years, employees were pressured by sales targets and compensation incentives that resulted in the creation of an estimated two million secret customer accounts. More shockingly, employees transferred customer funds to these accounts without their knowledge and ultimately racked up $2.6 million in unwarranted charges and fees. During the investigation and subsequent Congressional hearings in the Senate and the House of Representatives, John Stumpf, CEO and Chairman of Wells Fargo, testified that he did not become aware of the growth of the unauthorized customer account openings until late 2013. However, there is evidence these practices started much earlier. While over 5,300 employees have been fired for unethical conduct related to opening unauthorized accounts since 2011, to our knowledge no senior executives at Wells Fargo have been terminated as a result of the practice or the recent investigation and fines. The failure to hold senior executives accountable is inexcusable and leads us to believe this was a company-wide culture of deception, not the acts of rogue employees in the community banking division as Wells Fargo asserts. All the more troubling is the fact that Mr. Stumpf could not assure the House Financial Services Committee that these illegal practices did not impact Wells Fargo small business customers. On September 29, 2016, during questioning, Representative Nydia M. Velázquez, the Ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, asked Mr. Stumpf, “Can you provide us today with assurances that these illegal practices did not affect any of your small business clients at Wells Fargo?” Mr. Stumpf was unable to answer this question, even after being asked a similar question one week prior during his appearance before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Development. This lack of assurance from Mr. Stumpf is very troubling and leads us to believe additional federal investigations are necessary and warranted. We fear that if unauthorized accounts were being opened by employees under pressure to meet incentive goals, it would have devastating effects on small business customers. As we all know, access to capital is the lifeblood of every business and continues to be a struggle for millions of small businesses across the country. The negative impact on a credit report resulting from secret, unauthorized accounts could be the difference between getting a loan and thriving or being denied and going out of business. For these reasons we respectfully request you open an investigation, either separately or jointly, to examine: (1) if Wells Fargo had similar cross-selling promotional incentives for employees that served small business clients, and (2) whether Wells Fargo employees perpetrated similar frauds, including, but not limited to, the opening of unauthorized accounts, against small business clients. The possibility that Wells Fargo may have perpetrated similar actions would have real-world impacts on the livelihood of hard-working small business owners and their employees. We urge you to quickly act to protect our nation’s small businesses and jobs. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Carolyn Maloney Donald Payne, Jr. Dan Kildee Maxine Waters Brenda Lawrence Bill Foster Judy Chu Michael E. Capuano Gwen Moore Wm. Lacy Clay Seth Moulton Grace Meng Keith Ellison Al Green Janice Hahn Stephen F. Lynch Alma Adams # # #
10.10.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the passing of Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson: “All of us in Brooklyn and New York are praying for Ken’s family and all those who knew and loved him. Our borough and our city are better places because of Ken’s steadfast work to advance justice. His contributions in areas like reducing gun violence and the ‘Begin Again’ initiative made our city safer and our justice system fairer. We will always remember the accomplishments he made. I hope the progress he helped drive forward during his life is a comfort to his family.” # # #
10.07.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Hurricane Matthew: “All of us are praying for those in Haiti, Cuba and the Dominican Republican impacted by this destructive hurricane. New York has thriving communities of immigrants from all these nations and our hearts break for the victims and their families. “As Matthew continues moving up the coast, I urge east coast residents to listen to public safety officials and care for one another. “Lastly, many have asked how they can help those in Haiti and elsewhere. I urge New Yorkers to visit the Red Cross’ website to provide assistance.” Donations to the Red Cross can be made by following this link: https://www.redcross.org/donate/donation # # #
10.07.2016	Washington, DC – The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) today released their “Congressional Scorecard”, which rates members of Congress’ voting records on key issues for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) community. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) received a “100%” rating from the organization, underscoring her ongoing support for equality for all Americans. “We’ve made significant progress in recent years on a range of issues important to the LGBTQ community, but there’s still more to be done,” Velázquez noted. “I’m proud of my record in this area and remain committed to advancing equal rights for all Americans, regardless of their identity or sexual orientation.” The scorecard rates House members on votes they have taken on a number of critical issues, such as preventing discrimination among federal contractors, prohibiting public schools from discriminating against students on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and stopping individuals who violate the human rights of LGBTQ people from entering into the United States. “None of us can rest when any segment of our community is harassed or discriminated against simply because of who they are,” Velázquez added. “HRC has been a steadfast partner in our ongoing struggle to advance equality and I’m proud to receive this recognition from them.” Founded in 1980, HRC is the largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Americans. The organization represents a force of more than 1.5 million members and supporters nationwide. # # #
10.06.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote to the leadership of FOX News Channel decrying a recent segment that demeaned Asian Americans. Velázquez’s district includes Chinatown, where the piece was filmed. The text of the letter is below. October 6, 2016 Mr. Jack Abernethy and Mr. Bill Shine Co-Presidents FOX News Channel 1211 Avenue of the Americas 2nd Floor New York, NY 10036 Dear Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Shine: I was disgusted, saddened and appalled by the October 3rd “Watters World” segment of the O’Reilly Factor, which demeaned and lampooned Asian Americans. As you know, New York’s Chinatown is an important part of our City’s vibrant cultural tapestry and this segment was deeply offensive to our community. It should be condemned without hesitation or qualification. Any objective observer would agree that Mr. Watters’ piece blatantly played on racial stereotypes to malign members of our community based solely on their ethnic background. As a progressive Democrat, I recognize that FOX News is often viewed as a network with conservative proclivities. However, despite any ideological differences I may have with your editorial content, I hope you agree that hate speech has no place on any news channel -- and certainly not on a platform like FOX’s, which reaches 1.9 million households daily. Accordingly, I would ask you to answer the following questions: 1. Does FOX News have a policy regarding the broadcast of racist editorial content? How is that policy communicated to employees, producers and on-air talent? 2. Do you believe Monday’s segment reflects the values of FOX News and, more broadly, 21st Century Fox? 3. Will Mr. Watters and Mr. O’Reilly face any consequences as a result of the racist content aired? Will you consider terminating or suspending them without pay? Like all progressive Democrats, I believe strongly in a free and independent media and cherish the First Amendment. However, that does not abdicate private news channels from their responsibility to ensure they are not disseminating hate speech. I would ask you to reflect deeply on whether the segment aired truly represents your institution’s corporate values and take swift action to communicate how inappropriate and offensive this piece was. I look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez # # #
10.04.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez has written the Richmond Police Department regarding the death of Mr. Quan Zheng, a 34-year-old Chinese American who recently relocated from New York City to Chesterfield County, Virginia. Many in New York’s Asian community have suggested that Mr. Zheng may have been attacked due to his ethnicity and some have linked the crime to a popular hip-hop song that encourages the targeting of Chinese homes for burglary. “The local authorities should investigate whether ethnicity was a factor in this horrific act,” Velázquez noted. “Crimes like these are unconscionable, but attacks on individuals based on their background are particularly reprehensible.” The text of Velázquez’s letter is below. Alfred Durham Chief of Police Richmond Police Department 900 E. Broad Street Richmond, VA 23219 Dear Chief Durham: I am writing to express my concern over the unfortunate death of Mr. Quan Zheng, a 34-year-old Chinese American who recently relocated from New York City to Chesterfield County, Virginia. Mr. Zheng was the victim of a hit-and-run in Richmond on September 16, 2016. On that evening, he was in the middle of a food order delivery when he was targeted by unknown assailants on the 1400 block of Lenmore Street. During this struggle, a suspect used Mr. Zheng's vehicle as a weapon and struck him, leaving him seriously injured in the process and ultimately taking his life. While the Richmond Police Department (RPD) is currently investigating the crime, there has been no online notice regarding any arrests or promising leads. Understandably, our community is concerned and would appreciate any updates you can furnish regarding this case. This incident has been a blow to our Chinese American community here in New York, where Mr. Zheng’s family resides. In fact, the local sentiment is that Mr. Zheng’s unfortunate death is the result of continued proliferation of a song entitled, “Meet the Flockers,” produced by rapper YG. In its first stanza, the song states: “[first], you find a house and scope it out; find a Chinese neighborhood, [because] they don't believe in bank accounts,” later encouraging people to break into their homes and, “get that jewelry box.” The song unfortunately racially profiles Chinese Americans and illustrates them as a vulnerable and easy-to-target group. I, along with our local Chinese American community, am interested in knowing if the RPD has found any evidence to suggest racially motivated bias as the motive for this attack. If so, what strategies will be employed by the RPD to prevent future racially motivated attacks against Chinese Americans? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter and I look forward to collaborating with you in fighting against racial bias against our cities’ Chinese American communities. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Rosh Hashanah: “For New York’s Jewish families and throughout the world, I wish a very happy and peaceful New Year. Rosh Hashanah is a time for worship and celebration. It is also when we, as New Yorkers, reflect on the countless contributions that our Jewish community has made to our City and our nation. To all my friends and neighbors I say ‘Shana Tova.’” # # #
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – With student loan debt mounting nationally, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today announced legislation that would assist college graduates who launch their own businesses with deferment options and forgiveness on most federally subsidized student loans. Her bill, H.R. 6197, the “Supporting America’s Young Entrepreneurs Act,” aims to foster business creation by removing one hurdle preventing graduates from launching their own ventures – the rising costs of securing a college degree. “Over the last two decades, the amount of student loan debt in this country has ballooned more than ten-fold,” Velázquez said. “Young people today, who might otherwise launch their own enterprises, are being held back by a mountain of loans accrued while financing their education.” Today, the amount of federally financed student loan debt stands at a historic $1.3 trillion. At the same time, fewer young people are launching their own businesses and the formation of new ventures, overall, has been significantly constrained. While new firms represented as much as 16 percent of all firms in the late 1970s, by 2011, that share had declined to 8 percent. Entrepreneurship among younger people has declined significantly. Although many millennials strive for self-employment, fewer than 2 percent in 2014 were self-employed, compared to 8.3 percent of baby boomers. “We are losing a generation of entrepreneurship due to the cost of higher education,” Velázquez noted. “Imagine the new products, markets, and job creation we are potentially losing because young people with an innovative idea can’t afford to start their own companies. If this trend continues, it will undermine our economic competitiveness for the long term.” Velázquez’s new bill would open new options for graduates who launch their own business. Start-up founders could secure a three-year deferment on eligible federal student loans and, in some cases, interest would be frozen during this period. The legislation would further target assistance to businesses operating in communities that have struggled economically. Entrepreneurs who open their businesses in high-need, distressed areas can also be eligible for up to $20,000 in loan forgiveness. The Supporting America’s Young Entrepreneurs Act goes further by exempting the loan forgiveness from taxable income, protecting these small business owners from unfair penalties. The legislation not only assists the startup founders, but also their employees. Employees with a college degree working for these eligible companies will also share in loan forgiveness of up to $15,000. Rewarding employees who are willing to take a chance in a startup company deserve similar financial assistance as the founders. Dedicated employees are a cornerstone to a successful, young business. “Under this bill, if you’re willing to take the risk of launching a new company, we’re going to give you some breathing space from your student loans so you may get your new venture underway,” Velázquez added. “And, if you open a business in an economically hard hit area, creating needed jobs, we’re going to forgive some of your student loan debt.” Velázquez serves on the House Committee on Small Business and has long been an advocate for empowering more Americans – particularly women, young people, and people of color – to go into business for themselves.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled new legislation (H.R. 6181) aimed at helping fund transportation alternatives when major transit arteries are closed or delayed due to infrastructure upgrades. The legislation, the “Increase Transportation Alternatives Investment Program,” could help expand choices for New York commuters who currently rely on the L and M trains, both of which are expected to close in the near future for extensive repairs. “Investing in transportation is a boon for our economy and helps strengthen local neighborhoods,” Velázquez noted. “With certain transit options being closed for critical repairs, we need to invest in smart, alternative transportation that creates additional options for commuters.” Under the legislation, states that receive funding through the federal government’s Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) Program would be required to prioritize transportation projects in areas where there is significant reconstruction or repair occurring. The STBG provides funding that may be used by States and localities for projects to preserve and improve the conditions and performance on any Federal-aid highway, bridge and tunnel projects on any public road, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, and transit capital projects, including intercity bus terminals. “With the L Train slated to close in January and the M train facing similar challenges, we need to think proactively about how to minimize disruption for working families,” Velázquez noted. “This measure would ensure areas experiencing extensive infrastructure work move to the top of the list when seeking financing to expand transit options.” Beyond updating the STBG initiatives, the bill would create a new competitive grant program at the Department of Transportation that supports community efforts to invest in transportation. Eligible programs include carpool and telecommuting projects as well as expanding bicycle and pedestrian mobility and access. That program would also give preference to areas undergoing extensive repair of transportation systems. “The fact is we are going to need a range of potential transportation modes from bike lanes to ferries to additional pedestrian paths for our City to cope with these train closures,” Velázquez concluded. “This bill leverages federal dollars to open up additional commuting and transit alternatives.” The L Train is slated to close for 18 months in January 2019 to make way for repairs of the Canarsie Tunnel. Parts of the M line, which runs from Middle Village through Midtown into Queens, could be shut down for as long as 10 months for reconstruction starting the summer of 2017.
09.26.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today denounced a widely circulated video on YouTube titled, “Meet the Flockers”, which encourages the robbing of Chinese Americans. The lyrics of the song specifically suggest targeting Chinese American homes for burglary, while the video shows three individuals breaking into a house and stealing valuables. “Glamorizing crime and theft is unacceptable, but suggesting specific ethnicities should be targeted is especially reprehensible and dangerous,” Velázquez said. “We need to speak with one voice in condemning speech like this and making clear it is wholly unacceptable.” Velázquez’s comments come after the death of an Asian immigrant deliveryman in Virginia. Some community activists in New York City and elsewhere have linked his death to the YouTube video. “While, it is my understanding that they are still determining the details of the Virginia case, it is clear this video suggests robbing Chinese homes,” Velázquez added. “That’s unacceptable and we must condemn it forcefully.” Velázquez has been vocal on issues related to crimes against the Asian American community. She previously called on the New York Police Department to examine a growing trend of crimes against Asian Americans in New York City. She also asked the Department to establish a taskforce addressing “Blessings scams”, swindles that target Asian American women, particularly recent immigrants. Velázquez’s Congressional District, New York’s 7th, includes Manhattan’s Chinatown and Brooklyn’s Chinatown in Sunset Park as well as Asian communities in parts of Queens. # # #
09.21.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today made the following extension of remarks in the U.S. House regarding the Voting Rights Act: “I thank my friend for yielding and hosting this discussion. “It’s ironic that, as a country, we consistently advocate for other countries to support democratic traditions and institutions -- and empower their citizens. “Sadly, because of the Shelby decision, we are not living up to our own standards. “But, we cannot lay all the blame on the Supreme Court. The Court was clear in their ruling. While they invalidated the mechanism used to determine what jurisdictions required pre-clearance – they also suggested that Congress could come up with a standard that passes constitutional muster. “Thanks to Republican inaction, we have failed in that task. “Now, we are about to have the first Presidential election -- in five decades -- without the very basic protections that were enshrined in the Voting Rights Act. “What does this mean? It means that some of our most vulnerable populations – communities of color, young people, students and women – are more likely to encounter obstacles to exercising their most basic right. “And, let’s be absolutely clear --- there remain serious challenges and problems when it comes to protecting voters. By no means are the protections in the VRA out-of-date or no longer necessary. “We saw a stark example of this earlier this year – in Brooklyn. In April, some 120,000 voters from the rolls in Kings County - the largest county in the state- were improperly purged from the voter rolls. And, an analysis by local media outlets found those affected were disproportionately Latino voters -- mostly in working class neighborhoods like Sunset Park, East New York, and parts of Bushwick and Williamsburg. “Now, let’s recall that Kings County was previously covered by Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Would these voters have been removed if the VRA were still intact? The fact is we do not know. “But we do know this – our democracy and our system of voting is not perfect -- and to argue that voters are no longer disenfranchised is simply false. We’ve seen that clearly in Brooklyn. “And, let me make one other observation -- those who argue that we need more stringent voter ID laws to prevent “voter fraud” are making a dishonest argument. Every credible expert who has examined the data has concluded this --- voter fraud is exceedingly rare, if not completely nonexistent. “Voting rights should not be a Republican issue or a Democratic issue. We should all be passionate about defending and upholding this most basic right – for all Americans. “Yet, this Congress-- thanks to the Republican Leadership --has failed to do the necessary work to restore the protections in the Voting Rights Act. “Earlier this year, my colleagues Hakeem Jeffries, Grace Meng and I hosted a forum on the Voting Rights Act. We heard from local experts about the need to restore these protections. I ask unanimous consent that comments from that session be inserted into the record. “Let me conclude simply by saying this – it is shameful this Congress has not addressed this issue. But it is also not surprising. Just as this House has not acted on gun violence and has not yet allocated appropriate funding to address Zika, or dealt with the Flint water crisis -- this is yet one more example of how House Republicans are simply not doing their job. “So, I call on my colleagues – do your job. Let’s do the hard work of reinstating these democratic protections so voters are not disenfranchised. “I thank my friend for the time and I yield back.” # # #
09.21.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today spoke on the House floor in opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal that could come before Congress by the end of the year. Video of her speech can be accessed here and below are her remarks as prepared for delivery. Trans Pacific Partnership Floor Statement September 21, 2016 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring attention to another bad trade deal that could soon be forced upon the American people. It is possible that the Trans-Pacific Partnership – or TPP -- could be brought before this body for a final vote before the end of the year and end of this Congress. We have seen, time and again, what bad trade deals do to our communities and to working families across this nation. When NAFTA was under consideration, American workers were told that the trade benefits would mean more jobs and economic opportunity. What actually happened? We saw a net loss of 700,000 jobs thanks to NAFTA. So, if history is any guide, we know what to expect from TPP. But, in many ways this agreement is even more harmful than NAFTA. In fact, the core of this deal is allowing foreign corporations to sue the U.S. government over regulations they simply do not like. Imagine – any time there is an environmental regulation, or worker safety regulation that a company does not care for, they can sue. And, these cases will not go through the regular legal process. Instead, TPP creates a special tribunal of three corporate lawyers to evaluate the case. And if a company convinces these three lawyers that a law or regulation violates their TPP rights? Well, then the American taxpayer has to pay these corporations enormous compensation. Let’s be clear --- there’s no appeal process. There’s no way to reverse these decisions. The TPP could put the taxpayer on the hook for almost unlimited sums of money. It is no wonder that this agreement was negotiated in private. While corporations were given plenty of opportunity to comment on how they wanted the agreement to look, the public and workers were not given a seat in the room – or even the chance to review the text before it was finalized. The end result – unsurprisingly – is an agreement that’s bad for the American people and would affect their daily lives in countless ways. American workers would find themselves competing for jobs against workers in places like Vietnam who make 65 cents an hour. This agreement would require the U.S. to import food that does not meet our own safety standards. It would mean more expensive prescription drugs for our seniors. And, it would curtail policies meant to fight climate change. Mr. Speaker, the TPP is 6,000 pages long. It is too big and covers too much. It has too many unintended consequences. There should be no rush to push this agreement through the House before the end of the year. However, if this agreement is put on the floor this year -- I will vote NO and I encourage all my colleagues to do the same. Protect working families! Protect the American consumer! Protect our environment! Vote NO on the TPP! I yield back. # # #
09.20.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today called on Governor Cuomo to help small businesses impacted by the Chelsea explosion. Under federal law, a state’s governor can certify that businesses have suffered economic harm from a disaster, which then allows small businesses, homeowners and renters to apply for emergency loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). In a letter to Cuomo, Velázquez called for the Governor to exercise this option. “It’s important we use every tool at our disposal to help businesses harmed by the Chelsea explosion get back on their feet,” Velázquez said. “Governor Cuomo has the authority, right now, to facilitate emergency federal loans and I’m hopeful he’ll take this step.” Velázquez serves as the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, which has jurisdiction over the SBA. She has previously authored legislation improving the agency’s emergency lending function and reopening the loan application window for businesses that were harmed by Hurricane Sandy. The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. September 20, 2016 The Honorable Andrew M. Cuomo Governor of New York State NYS State Capitol Building Albany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo: I am writing to you with urgency regarding the economic impact of the recent intentional explosion and ensuing damage in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York City and to request your assistance in helping the affected small businesses, homeowners, and renters obtain disaster loans from the Small Business Administration (SBA). On Saturday, September 17, 2016, an improvised explosive device detonated in the vicinity of West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan. The explosion resulted in injuries to at least 29 people and damage to a number of buildings. The explosion has unfortunately jeopardized the economic well-being of this vibrant neighborhood by forcing small businesses to close while damage is repaired. Both our local firms and residents are feeling the impact of this intentional explosion. Small businesses tend to have little cash reserves, and limited ability to raise capital. As a result, small business are often disproportionally impacted when disasters like this occur. Homeowners and renters are also struggling to make repairs and stave off additional losses of personal property. SBA’s assistance can help address these problems immediately and help our residents begin to recover. I know you are well aware of the importance that SBA disaster loans play in preserving the economic health of our nation’s local economies. In most circumstances, SBA disaster loans permit small businesses to stave off bankruptcy and assist homeowners in fixing their residences. As a result, local economies are stabilized and the prospects of future economic growth are emboldened. Under Section 3(k) of the Small Business Act, a “disaster” is defined as a “sudden event, which causes severe economic damage.” The intentional explosion in New York City clearly meets the statutory definition both in terms of the unexpected nature of such acts and the evidence of substantial economic damage. In the absence of a disaster declaration by the President of the United States, the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Administration of the SBA, section 7(b)(2)(D) of the Small Business Act permits a Governor of a state in which a disaster occurred to certify to the SBA that a small business concern(s) has suffered economic injury as a result of a disaster and that it is need of financial assistance that is not available on reasonable terms and conditions. While the SBA typically makes funds available for disasters that have caused widespread economic injury, some disasters, like terrorist attacks, result in localized economic injury. I believe that such businesses that are adversely affected by a localized disaster should be eligible for assistance under the SBA’s disaster loan program and, to this end, I request that you exercise your authority as provided for in section 7(b)(2)(D) of the Small Business Act. By providing this certification to the SBA, you will help New York City small businesses rebuild, save local jobs, and bolster a community trying to recover from this terrible act. I am aware of your record of support for New York small businesses and I thank you in advance for your consideration of this urgent matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today led Members of the New York City Congressional delegation in unveiling a new legislative effort to combat the rise of synthetic marijuana. Her bill, the “Synthetic Drug Overdose Prevention and Education Act” (SDOPEA), would begin using federal resources to educate the public about the dangers of these substances. The bill comes after a number of individuals overdosed on the drug earlier this summer. “The recent rash of overdoses from synthetic marijuana in Brooklyn is wholly unacceptable,” Velázquez said. “It is vital we take steps at all levels of government to address the growth of synthetic marijuana and protect our community.” Under Velázquez’s bill, the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention would be required to develop a comprehensive strategy on preventing and treating the use of synthetic recreational drugs like “K2”. The agency would have one year to complete a study that would also include best rehabilitation practices. Other provisions in the bill would require the creation of a database of substances that may be determined by CDC to qualify as a synthetic drug. “Although drugs like ‘K2’ have been around for some time, we still don’t have the full picture of how it affects users and, equally important, how to best treat it,” Velázquez added. “This study will give us a full accounting of what works best, so we can work collaboratively at both the federal and local levels to address the scourge of synthetic marijuana.” Velázquez’s legislation would also invest in local agencies that are positioned to help educate the public about the dangers of synthetic drugs. The SDOPEA would authorize the Director of the CDC to make grants up to $100,000 in aggregate of $2.5 million over the next two years for such efforts. The bill also requires multiple federal agencies including the Drug Enforcement Agency and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to develop a national outreach campaign that will educate law enforcement, local and state agencies and healthcare providers about synthetic drugs. “The recent events in Brooklyn have made clear that we must come together as a community and tackle this issue, proactively,” Velázquez added. “This legislation will take important strides toward addressing the K2 problem.” The bill was cosponsored by Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Yvette Clarke (D-NY) and Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). # # #
09.13.2016	(Washington, DC) - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement during the Financial Services Committee markup of H.R. 5983, legislation to repeal Dodd-Frank: I move to strike the last word. Another day, another attempt to eliminate the Dodd-Frank Act. Today is not a remedy for Dodd-Frank’s problems – it is a political talking point that does nothing to help Main Street. It is just another attempt to help special interests while saying it’s for the little guy. How can we even take this seriously when companies like Wells Fargo are habitually breaking the law to boost profits? We have all heard the industry complaints that Dodd-Frank “went too far.” But try telling the hard-working families that were preyed upon with deceptive mortgages or hit with cascading overdraft fees that Dodd-Frank is too hard on the financial industry. CFPB has returned nearly $12 billion to 27 million consumers who have been the victims of unfair and deceptive practices. Before Dodd-Frank, this was just the “cost of doing business” with the financial sector. Today, consumers have peace of mind that they have a place to turn if they are deceived and unscrupulous practices can be weeded out. The legislation before us would seriously hinder and undermine this vital work in the name of “choice”. I don’t think Americans would willingly “choose” to be ripped off which is exactly what will happen again if this bill becomes law. It is especially ill-timed to undermine the CFPB when just last week Wells Fargo was fined $100million for illegally opening phony bank accounts! Situations like this are why my constituents have praised Dodd-Frank and the CFPB, and expect for us to do more to protect them in the future. These are the everyday Americans I answer to. The closer you look at this bill, it’s clear to see who’s really pulling the strings – it’s not Main Street, its Wall Street. Today’s bill would roll back all of our progress and is the wrong choice for consumers, small businesses, and the economy. For these reasons I cannot support this bill and I urge my colleagues to join me. I yield back.
09.12.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation (H.R. 5981) aimed at helping traditionally hard-to-reach immigrant populations better access quality medical care. The bill, the “Mobile Medical Immigrant Health Improvement Act”, would help steer federal resources to local organizations that have a strong presence in immigrant communities. “Recent immigrants face unique challenges in locating and accessing high quality medical care,” Velázquez noted. “This bill will bolster those organizations that specialize in helping immigrants in our City.” Velázquez’s legislation would create a new grant program at the Department of Health and Human Services. Clinics, hospitals and other healthcare providers could apply for grants to fund mobile medical resources to go into immigrant communities and provide primary health services, substance abuse services, and mental health counseling to patients who face language barriers and other hurdles to care. “This legislation will invest in organizations with deep ties in the local community, so they expand their reach and assist recent immigrants,” Velázquez added. “By helping clinics with on-the-ground experience expand their reach, we can ensure we are caring for some of our most vulnerable neighbors.” Under Velázquez’s legislation, grant applicants located in areas with a comparatively high number of immigrants would receive preference from HHS. The bill has been endorsed by the Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Association, the Bowery Alliance of Neighborhoods, Chinatown Headstart, Chinese Freemasons Educational Alliance, the Greater New York Hospital Association, Grant Street Settlement and New York Legal Assistance Group.
08.31.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s naming of members of the Puerto Rico Oversight Board as required under PROMESA: “I am pleased the President has moved forward expeditiously with this step. It is my hope and expectation that this panel acts quickly in empowering Puerto Rico to restructure its debt and formulating a plan that puts the island on a sounder financial footing. I anticipate this entity will listen carefully to the views of all stakeholders, while holding paramount the needs of the Puerto Rican people. While tough choices must be made, I am confident we can find positive solutions for the island, while holding harmless Puerto Rico’s pensioners, children, working families and most vulnerable residents.” # # #
08.26.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the devastating earthquake that hit Italy: “I am praying for all those impacted by the horrible earthquake in Italy. Many parts of Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens have strong cultural ties to Italy and, as a City, all of us are thinking of the Italian people at this time. I encourage New Yorkers to consider finding ways to donate and assist the victims and recovery efforts.” # # #
08.23.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has filed comments in support of a proposal by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to expand the National Diabetes Prevention Program. Included in the new rule is an initiative increasing screening for diabetes among Asian American populations by lowering the body mass index (BMI) diabetes threshold for Asian beneficiaries. “This new rule would enhance screening and allow for earlier intervention among Asian Americans with diabetes,” Velázquez noted. “This will mean improved health outcomes for Asian Americans who suffer from diabetes.” The American Diabetes Association modified their recommended BMI threshold for Asian Americans in 2015. This recommendation has been included as a risk factor for the National Institutes of Health and Centers for Disease Control’s National Diabetes Education Program. The new rule would bring CMS’ BMI threshold for diabetes among Asian Americans in line with the Diabetes Association’s recommendations. This would mean more Asian American patients would receive screenings and preventative care through Medicare. Without this change, it is estimated over half of diabetes cases among Asian Americans go undiagnosed, which can result in serious complications. “These changes will mean more federal resources helping prevent, detect and treat a disease among our Asian American neighbors, ultimately saving lives,” Velázquez noted. “I’m glad CMS is taking these commonsense steps and will continue pushing to see these new rules implemented.” Velázquez's comments are available here: CMSDiabetesRegulationCommentLetter.pdf # # #
08.17.2016	Washington, DC – Three Puerto Rican Members of Congress have written to the Speaker of the House of Representatives calling for Congress to swiftly allocate resources to address the growing threat of the Zika virus. In a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan (D-WI), Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Congressman Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) and Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) called for Congress to appropriate $1.9 billion in emergency funding to address Zika, as previously requested by the Administration. “By failing to act, House Republicans are abdicating Congress’ solemn responsibility to protect the American people. This terrible disease poses a danger to all Americans, to New Yorkers and has already been impacting Puerto Rico. Congress needs to act responsibly and swiftly to address this growing threat. Public health experts have made clear that the funding the House previously passed is woefully insufficient and this failure is shameful and unacceptable. Speaker Ryan needs to act before more Americans are put at risk,” said Rep. Velázquez. “Puerto Rico is, by far, the U.S. jurisdiction most impacted by Zika. There are already over 10,000 confirmed cases, including over 1,000 confirmed cases in pregnant women, and the true numbers are likely far higher. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that carries Zika also carries dengue and chikungunya, which have each caused serious public health and economic problems in Puerto Rico in recent years. It is critical that the federal government, working in conjunction with the scientific community, take the steps necessary to combat Zika and other mosquito-borne viruses in all U.S. jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico, with a particular focus on cutting-edge methods of vector control that can substantially reduce the population of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. To accomplish this goal, far more resources are required—and required fast. When Congress returns to work in September, it is my fervent hope that the House and Senate will act in the best interest of this country,” said Pedro Pierluisi, Puerto Rico’s representative in Congress. “Republicans in Congress have failed the American people by preventing an adequate funding bill to address the Zika crisis from being debated and passed. Redirecting funds from one epidemic to another is not enough- there is already a public health crisis in Puerto Rico, and further delay leaves us vulnerable to the outbreak in the 50 states. With each and every day we drag our feet on approving the Administration’s full request, we are putting more women and children at grave risk of transmission. Enough is enough; it is time for Congressional Republicans to take this crisis seriously and to immediately approve the funds necessary to deal with this crisis in a comprehensive manner,” said Congressman Serrano. The full text of the letter is below. August 16, 2016 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H-237 U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to express our serious concern over the increasing threat posed by the Zika virus and the need for immediate Congressional action on emergency funding. Puerto Rico, with 10,000 cases, is ground zero for this virus. Moreover, several states, including Florida and Texas, have now seen locally transmitted cases. This demonstrates the significant challenges associated with combating Zika, and the need to act swiftly to ensure that we have the necessary tools at our disposal. For this reason we strongly support the administration’s request of $1.9 billion in emergency appropriations to combat this international public health threat and request the House of Representatives immediately consider legislation to fund ongoing response and research efforts at this level. It is clear we still have a lot to learn about Zika virus and both the short-term and long-term health implications for those affected by the virus. Where Zika was once thought to only spread via mosquitoes, we now know it can be sexually transmitted and can even stay in the system for weeks after infection. As Zika continues to spread, it is imperative that we make immediate, sustained investments in research that, hopefully, will yield a vaccine, diagnostic method, and prevention strategy. Unfortunately, current funding that was shifted to the National Institutes of Health will soon be exhausted. Congressional inaction will lead to real-world consequences—Phase II trials of a Zika vaccine will be delayed until new funding is provided. The current Zika outbreak has spread rapidly and brought the epidemic to our doorstep. There are almost 2,000 reported cases of Zika in the 50 states to date with six of them being locally transmitted. More alarmingly, there have also been over 10,000 cases reported in the U.S. territories, resulting in Secretary Burwell declaring a public health emergency for Puerto Rico – signaling that the current spread of Zika poses a significant threat to public health on the island. Even the Defense Department has reported that at least 40 Americans on active military duty, including a pregnant woman, have contracted the Zika virus during service in countries where mosquitos are transmitting the disease. The spread of Zika in the Western Hemisphere has been swift and damaging. The number of cases will continue to rise until Congress acts. The most troubling aspect of Zika remains in its threat to pregnant women and their babies. Nearly 1,000 cases have been confirmed in pregnant women in the U.S. mainland and the U.S. territories. As you know, Zika-related birth defects, like Guillain-Barré syndrome and microcephaly are life threatening and lifelong illnesses. Given these neonatal neurological implications of this virus, it is unconscionable to further delay action on this very critical issue. We are gravely concerned about the implications of this virus and, for this reason, believe that response and research efforts must have Congress’ full attention. The risks are too great to wait. Therefore, we urge you to make Zika funding your top priority and promptly bring legislation, such as H.R. 5044, the Emergency Supplemental on the Zika Virus, which provides at least $1.9 billion in appropriations to the House floor as soon as possible. Sincerely,
08.16.2016	Letter from NYC Lawmakers Says Plan Could Raise Rents on Working Families Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) have written the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) about the agency’s proposal to change how it calculates the value of housing vouchers for low income renters. HUD’s plan would begin tying the value of these Section 8 vouchers to rents in a zip code rather than the current system that is based on the larger metropolitan area. While the intent of the plan is to make more affluent areas affordable for voucher holders, in a place like New York City with a very low vacancy rate, the outcome would be increasing the amount that voucher holders must pay out of pocket to stay in their home. In their letter, which was signed by all Democratic Members of the New York City Congressional delegation, the Members of Congress argue that HUD’s proposed changes to the Section 8 voucher program would be a poor fit for New York City. “Forcing this ‘one-size fits all’ approach to the voucher program could leave thousands of New Yorkers facing an unfair choice between moving or paying more rent out of pocket,” said Rep. Velázquez. “At minimum, HUD needs to think through how any changes would impact cities like New York and how to avoid disrupting tenants’ lives.” “In a place like New York City with a very low vacancy rate, the outcome of this plan would be increasing the amount that many voucher holders must pay out of pocket to stay in their home -- or even cause some to lose their affordable housing. HUD must go back to the drawing board and work with the affordable housing community in New York to devise a plan that works,” said Senator Schumer. The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below. The Honorable Julian Castro Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Castro: We write to you on a matter of pressing concern in the administration of the Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”) program in New York City. The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (“the Department”) recent proposal to use Small Area Fair Market Rents (“SAFMRs”) in New York City is well intentioned, but we are worried the proposal is likely to result in unfavorable outcomes for a number of New York City’s tenants and families who currently participate in the HCV program. The Department’s proposal seeks to use SAFMRs in New York City, and other select metropolitan areas around the country, to provide tenants with a more effective means to move into neighborhoods of higher opportunity. Under the proposal, the Department will calculate Fair Market Rents (“FMRs”) by ZIP Code, instead of calculating FMRs as a single metropolitan area FMR, in order to more accurately reflect housing sub-markets within a metropolitan region. By calculating FMRs by ZIP Code, the Department hopes that Small Area FMRs will afford HCV tenants and families with a subsidy adequate enough to make higher opportunity neighborhoods more accessible. We appreciate the Department’s desire to encourage and enhance outcomes and opportunities for tenants and families, and the proposal may work well in some localities. However, in the high-cost, extremely low vacancy area of New York City, the proposal is likely to negatively impact a majority of tenants and families participating in the program. In New York City, the local housing agencies estimate that rental assistance payments would decrease for roughly 56,606 HCV tenants because of the Department’s proposal. This means, that within 13 to 24 months of the final rule taking effect, these individuals and families will be expected to move to a higher-income neighborhood, be forced to re-negotiate with their landlord for a lower rent, or assume a significantly higher rent burden in order to stay in their home. For those tenants and families facing a decrease in their monthly rental assistance payments that may choose to move, these individuals and families are likely to face limited rental options and encounter significant hardship in finding new housing due to the City’s extremely low vacancy rate, which currently stands at 3.45%. Some may face financial barriers to moving such as an inability to afford a larger security deposit or associated moving costs. Others may decide to stay in their home, choosing instead to remain close to social, family, or professional networks in their neighborhoods. For those tenants and families who choose to stay in their homes, the change to SAFMR will likely result in a reduced voucher subsidy. It is unlikely that landlords will accept lower rents, which will lead many existing tenants and families to face a significantly higher rent burden just to stay in their home. One estimate anticipates that in some ZIP Codes around the City the average rent burden will rise by as much as $403 per month. Further, lowered voucher subsidies may drive some landlords who currently accept vouchers to leave the Department’s program altogether, resulting in displacement of current voucher households and a further reduction of rental units affordable to those individuals and families who need them the most. At the other end of the spectrum, rental markets across the five boroughs where SAFMRs will be greater than currently published FMR levels, the net result would likely be an increase in per capita spending for each unit of HCV assistance. At a time when budget authority is already insufficient to support the existing number of New York City tenants and families participating in the program, the rise in the subsidy cost per household is likely to further reduce the number of tenants and families that can be assisted by the program overall. Any final rule adopted by the Department must limit the harm to those existing tenants and families currently participating in the HCV program. In an extremely tight rental market like New York City, the final rule should not force those individuals and families most in need of rental assistance to choose between facing a higher rent burden and leaving their home. In response to the Department’s request for public comment, a number of New York City’s housing agencies, tenant-based organizations, and housing experts have all submitted a number of forthright and constructive ideas and recommendations for improving the Department’s proposal. We urge the Department to review each and every-one of those ideas carefully and include their recommendations in adoption of the final rule to ensure New York City HCV tenants and families are not significantly impacted by a substantial and abrupt decrease in FMRs. Providing low-income individuals and families with more housing options, especially in high-opportunity neighborhoods is something we should all strive to achieve with the HCV program. But program changes should not be implemented that will negatively impact New York City individuals and families who choose not to or who are unable to move. Sincerely Yours, # # #
08.14.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the shooting of a Queens imam and his assistant on Saturday: “Like many, I was shocked and horrified by the shooting in Queens on Saturday. We must remember violence like this is not only an attack on one community, but also an affront to our values as a City that thrives on diversity. “In the short term, I ask New Yorkers to stand together in condemning this cowardly act and reporting pertinent information to NYPD so the perpetrator faces justice. Going forward, as a nation, we must work to exorcise from our national dialogue the divisiveness and anger that have become all too common of late.”
07.25.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) calling on the agency to take steps to address the effect of the drug “K2” on local communities. The letter comes after 33 people were sent to area hospitals after smoking K2 near the Myrtle Avenue and Broadway intersection. “The recent rash of hospitalizations in Brooklyn made clear that K2 remains a threat to our neighborhoods,” Velázquez said. “We need action at all levels of government, which is why I’m calling on CDC to dedicate resources specifically to the synthetic cannabinoid problem.” Velázquez’s letter calls for CDC to study treatment and prevention strategies for K2 and, subsequently, to undertake a national education campaign on the dangers of the substance. The full text of her letter is below. July 25, 2016 Tom Frieden, MD, MPH Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Dear Dr. Frieden: I am writing to express concern regarding the most recent rash of synthetic marijuana incidents affecting the Myrtle-Broadway area in Brooklyn, New York. This synthetic drug, known colloquially as “Spice” or “K2,” is particularly potent and has unfortunately continued to gain popularity throughout the five boroughs of New York City. In the immediate area surrounding the Myrtle-Broadway subway station, paramedics and other first responders provided assistance to 33 people who were suspected of overdosing on synthetic cannabinoids. Brooklyn’s most recent rash of cases two weeks ago formed part of a greater problem: at least 130 synthetic cannabinoid overdose cases were reported throughout the city during the same week. The chemicals used to create these “hits” are dangerous and produced in unknown conditions. In some cases, these mixtures have caused users to hallucinate or exhibit extreme rage—behavior that has sparked worry among local residents. Other users simply became dazed, earning the title “zombies.” Local efforts to combat the drug’s proliferation, spearheaded by the City’s Departments of Consumer Affairs and Health, have provided limited positive outcomes. By engaging with local cigarette retail dealer licensees, city authorities have been able to help remove some of the K2 supply off of our streets. On the enforcement end, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) continues to dutifully combat rogue retailers. Despite overall progress, local public awareness campaigns to educate users about the dangers of synthetic cannabinoids continue to be inadequate and have currently been unsuccessful in reaching all appropriate audiences. Some of the city’s most disenfranchised groups continue to be at-risk of relapse and addiction. While it can certainly be argued that current local enforcement and retailer engagement efforts have been a strong deterrent, such efforts are not foolproof. The same area where storefronts were raided about two weeks ago and yielded no signs of K2 sale activity is now, once again, under scrutiny after undercover operations allegedly yielded sales of synthetic marijuana. A drug enforcement policy primarily focused on immediate enforcement with little community outreach and engagement can severely hamper our collective efforts in getting K2 off the streets and getting users the help that they need. In fact, increasing public awareness is imperative to prevent the resurgence and popularity of this drug. Given these considerations and the course of events across New York City, I urge the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to undertake a study and consider research proposals which would analyze effective treatment and prevention strategies for K2 users while simultaneously establishing best rehabilitation practices. While I applaud the CDC’s prior efforts with clinicians, further research is necessary to assist us in educating our local communities and preventing the use of K2. I also encourage the CDC to take subsequent action, following the release of such a report, to launch a national education program in collaboration with appropriate local stakeholders. By providing focused educational materials and addressing many of the dangers posed by K2, the CDC can have a tremendous positive effect in neighborhoods all over the country and better achieve its goal of improving our nation’s health Finally, increasing the public’s understanding of the health risks associated with K2 and similar drugs must be addressed through reports and campaigns that cross all language and ethnic barriers. This key element is crucially necessary for successful efforts in our communities since this issue affects a diverse group of people—including those may not speak English as their first language. Their inclusion in any CDC proposal may yield important culturally appropriate diagnoses and treatment guidelines. I look forward to hearing from you and collaborating on these efforts. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress
07.15.2016	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia Velázquez released the following statement after being appointed to the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico, which was established by the recently enacted Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA): “I want to sincerely thank Leader Pelosi for appointing me to the Task Force. Through its restructuring provisions, PROMESA provides the mechanisms to stabilize Puerto Rico’s economy. However, it did not provide any tools or resources to promote long-term economic growth on the island. That will be the focus of this Task Force and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to build consensus in this area. PROMESA is a start and will help stem Puerto Rico’s crisis, but Congress must do more to promote long term growth on the island. I hope this Task Force provides the momentum to do just that.” # # #
07.14.2016	Swindle Targets Immigrants, Asian Community Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), NYC Council Member Carlos Menchaca and NYC Council Member Margaret Chin today wrote New York City Police Department (NYPD) Commissioner William Bratton, calling for action to address a spate of scams targeting women in New York’s Asian community. In a series of recent cases, Asian American women were approached and told that their family had been cursed. To remove the curse, the victims were instructed to bring all their money and jewelry for a blessing ritual, after which they were robbed. In their letter, the elected officials asked that the NYPD work with the District Attorneys of the five boroughs to tackle the problem. “These unconscionable swindles target immigrant communities and some of our most vulnerable neighbors,” Rep. Velázquez said. “It is important the NYPD and our District Attorneys’ offices take collaborative, proactive steps to put an end to these crimes.” “Scams targeting immigrant communities are particularly vile given that immigrants with limited English skills may find it more difficult than most to locate proper authorities and effectively file a complaint,” said Council Member Carlos Menchaca. “The ‘Chinese blessing’ scam must be stopped. The work and dedication of Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez and the commitment of the NYPD to our community will help eliminate this threat to our Chinese immigrant community.” “We must make sure that people, especially those that cannot speak English, know about these types of scams and be able to warn their families and friends,” said Council Member Margaret S. Chin. “I thank Congresswoman Velázquez for imploring law enforcement to coordinate their efforts to bring these scammers to justice and to deter others from even thinking about committing this kind of crime.” The full text of the letter is below. July 14, 2016 William J. Bratton Commissioner New York City Police Department 1 Police Plaza New York, NY 10038 Dear Commissioner Bratton: We are writing to call your attention to an issue impacting members of the Chinese-American community throughout New York City. Reports indicate that a group of fraudsters have conned a number of middle-aged women out of money and jewelry by using a “Chinese blessing” scam. Due to the persistent nature of the crime, we are calling on the NYPD to create a Task Force, in conjunction with the borough District Attorneys, relevant community based organizations and stakeholders, to coordinate efforts to stop the growing use of this “Chinese blessing” scam. In the most recently published cases, scam victims were approached by three women who said that their respective families had been “cursed” and, in order to lift the hex, were told to bring all their money and jewelry for a blessing ritual. Following these instructions, the women were robbed of their money and their valuable possessions were replaced with water bottles. This year alone nearly $500,000 worth of jewelry and money has been stolen from victims. These “Chinese blessing” scams are unfortunately nothing new in our City’s communities. In 2013, business owners on Avenue U in Brooklyn previously filed complaints with the New York Police Department (NYPD), noting that some of their shoppers were subject to harassment from “Chinese blessing” scam artists. In May 2015, a 65 year-old woman from Chinatown fell victim to a scammer and lost about $60,000 worth in jewelry and cash. The consistent pattern and increasing total value of stolen property both suggest that scammers are emboldened and willing to continue targeting middle-aged women, particularly those in the Chinese community. Some of these women are among our City’s vulnerable and may not speak the English language well enough to report the crime with confidence to the NYPD. Given this reality, it seems that the appropriate City authorities have inadequately addressed this issue via outreach or with the provision of culturally cognizant solutions. While it can be argued that some victims may not report incidents due to language barriers, it is our collective responsibility to ensure that the necessary tools and resources are employed appropriately throughout the community. Whether such solutions and strategies include more Chinese speaking police officers in predominately Chinese-speaking neighborhoods or a comprehensive outreach program with local shop owners and community based organizations, it is important for the appropriate City authorities to examine, consider and implement suitable solutions and strategies to help prevent future incidents. For these reasons, we urge the creation of a comprehensive Task Force to tackle this rampant “Chinese blessing” scam. Not only would a Task Force better help coordinate appropriate resources, but it would also be immediately responsive to needs of the Chinese community and help deter potential scam artists. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Carlos Menchaca Councilmember Margaret Chin Councilmember cc: Kenneth P. Thompson, Kings County, District Attorney Richard A. Brown, Queens County, District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance, New York County, District Attorney Darcel D. Clark, Bronx County, District Attorney Michael E. McMahon, Richmond County, District Attorney # # #
07.11.2016	Bill Would Close Decades-Old Loophole Allowing Conflict of Interest Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation authored by U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to close a decades-old loophole that has caused significant financial losses for many Puerto Rican investors and retirees. Velázquez’s bill, H.R.5322, would extend to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico and all the U.S. territories the same rules as those that apply on the U.S. mainland. “For too long, this massive oversight in federal investment law meant that residents of Puerto Rico did not have the same consumer safeguards as are available on the mainland,” Velázquez noted. “The result has been that many retirees and others have suffered enormous losses on financial products they have been sold by unscrupulous companies.” It has been publicly reported that some actors in Puerto Rico have used the current law’s loophole to act both as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, and then repackaged those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. While this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to the 1940 exemption, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland. The situation has been compounded by Puerto Rico’s ongoing debt crisis. Puerto Rican investors holding government bonds have suffered massive losses and are claiming that some financial companies did not properly disclose the risks of these funds, due to this conflict of interest. “I’ve heard of people losing their hard earned savings because of these gaps in the law,” Velázquez noted. “This bill would ensure statutory parity and prevent working families in Puerto Rico from being sold unsound investments that could not be marketed anywhere else in the U.S.” At the time the exemption was created in 1940, it was suggested that Puerto Rico and other “U.S. possessions” were physically located too far away for the Investment Act protections to be enforced. Since then both Hawaii and Alaska, which are farther away from the mainland than Puerto Rico, have been granted statehood and the protections in the 1940 Act. Additionally, air travel between the U.S. and Puerto Rico is common and many of these financial instruments are today traded electronically. “It is absurd to suggest that we are unable to have a robust financial regulatory presence in Puerto Rico for geographical reasons,” Velázquez added. “All this exemption does today is enrich large financial companies at the expense of vulnerable retirees and working families.” The legislation, the “U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act”, was approved by voice vote with bipartisan backing. It must now be considered by the U.S. Senate. Velázquez, the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, is the third most senior Democratic Member of the Financial Services Committee. # # #
07.07.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke today on the House floor calling for real, meaningful legislation to address the problem of gun violence. Velázquez’s remarks may be viewed by clicking here. # # #
07.07.2016	Washington, DC – The New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) has agreed with a letter Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote to Silvershore Properties, which own a Ridgewood residential building, questioning whether the company is intentionally allowing certain units to fall into disrepair, making them ineligible for the Section 8 subsidy and thereby increasing tenants’ rents. Velázquez released the following statement regarding NYCHA’s response letter: “The response from the New York City Housing Authority only further underscores that tenants’ rights are being abused by Silvershore Properties. It is important NYCHA notes that these tenants can obtain a Section 8 transfer if Silvershore continues failing to make repairs. In any event, we must continue working with HUD, the State Attorney General and local regulators to protect these tenants and keep them in their homes.” Velázquez recently introduced legislation that would make it illegal for landlords to intentionally allow Section 8 units to fall into a state of disrepair. The Landlord Accountability Act of 2016 would establish civil monetary penalties if landlords take actions, or neglect to take action, with the intention of disqualifying their units for federal housing programs like Section 8. # # #
06.30.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Senate passage of legislation allowing Puerto Rico to restructure its debt: “I know first-hand that the situation in Puerto Rico is extremely dire. And as I stated on House passage, PROMESA is far from perfect, but it is better than the alternative of taking no action at all. Debt restructuring is an essential first step – and without it, the island would not be able to move forward. “Now that we have passed PROMESA, Congress has the legal and moral responsibility to come together again and finish its work regarding Puerto Rico. We must provide new tools so that the island can rebuild its economy for the long-term. And, we have to resolve the island’s colonial status once and for all – without doing so, the people of Puerto Rico cannot truly move forward. In this regard, I look forward to working again with my colleagues to pass additional legislation in the coming months.”
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Democrats’ sit-in on the House floor to demand action on gun violence: “I’m proud to join my colleagues on the House floor in taking this historic action to demand votes on commonsense gun control legislation. The fact is the American people have had enough. Orlando was a dark reminder that the epidemic of gun violence continues plaguing our nation and that further inaction is morally unacceptable. “There are meaningful steps we could take to address this problem. It makes no sense that someone on the ‘Terror Watch List’ who cannot legally fly can purchase a gun. We need a strong ‘no fly, no buy policy.’ Our nation used to have a ban on assault weapons until President Bush allowed it to expire. That ban should be reinstated. Likewise, we need a system of universal background checks that keeps guns out of the hands of those who would do harm. “Additionally, I have introduced legislation to better trace the origin of stolen weapons, invest in mental health services and anti-violence outreach, and clamp down of the flow of stolen and missing guns that come into our City from other states. “Last week, I took to the House floor to read the names of the victims in Orlando. At that time, I said that, while we will never forget them, their memory will inspire change and action. Our sit-in on the floor is a continuation of that effort. No matter what happens in the next few days, we will maintain this fight and not relent until Congress enacts meaningful gun control.”
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that the President has named the Stonewall Inn a National Monument: “The Stonewall Uprising marked an important milestone on our nation’s collective journey toward a more perfect union. It is fitting that we recognize the site of this historic event and include it among the monuments that Americans cherish and that tell our nation’s story. “For decades, the Stonewall Inn has served as a reminder of the importance of continuing our struggle for equality and respect for all. Most recently it was where New Yorkers came to mourn the terrible tragedy in Orlando, but it has always served as a beacon and symbol of our enduring commitment to tolerance and freedom. All New Yorkers should be proud President Obama made this declaration recognizing the significance of this local landmark.”
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's deadlocked ruling that would block President Obama's actions protecting certain immigrants from deportation: "I'm profoundly saddened to hear of the Court's ruling. The fact is that without the President's Executive Action millions of immigrant families and thousands of New Yorkers will have to return to living in constant fear. These are our neighbors, our friends and our coworkers. They have contributed to building our communities and are American in every way, except for their legal status. "Going forward, with this Court's ruling, the need for immigration reform that keeps families together becomes all the more urgent. This will require action by a Congress that has, so far, failed to act responsibly. It is therefore all the more important the American people vote in November and elect Members of Congress willing to take on this issue and pass meaningful legislation." # # #
06.21.2016	Letter Follows Report of BK Voter Purge Impacting Latinos, 7th District Voters Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has requested that the U.S. Department of Justice provide federal election monitors for next week’s June 28th Congressional primary in New York City. In a letter today to Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, Velázquez noted that recent media reports have found last summer’s purge of voters in Brooklyn disproportionately affected Latino voters and voters in New York’s 7th District, which Velázquez represents. “Given the pervasive pattern of problems, it is difficult to have confidence that voters will not encounter other difficulties and barriers when heading to the polls next Tuesday,” Velázquez wrote. “Assigning federal election monitors would help protect the most fundamental right of voters in my district on election day.” The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below. June 21, 2016 The Honorable Loretta E. Lynch Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Lynch, I am writing you with great urgency to ask that you assign federal election monitors to oversee the elections occurring next Tuesday, June 28, in New York’s 7th congressional district, which I represent in the U.S. Congress. Evidence uncovered today suggests that the potentially illegal voter purges that occurred during 2015 have been substantially concentrated in my district in the areas of Sunset Park, East New York, and parts of Bushwick and Williamsburg. This suggests a targeted pattern of voter suppression and therefore an urgent need for federal oversight of the elections occurring in the 7th congressional district. The sheer volume of purged voters in the 7th congressional district is staggering and incomprehensible. According to analysis released today by WNYC, the New York City Board of Elections removed a total of 122,454 voters on June 18, 2015 and July 5, 2015 from the rolls of registered voters in Brooklyn. This represented nearly 10 percent of voters registered the year prior. Even more concerning is that it appears that these purges targeted Hispanic voters. According to WNYC, 13.9 percent of voters in Hispanic-majority election districts were purged, compared to 8.7 percent of voters in all other election districts. The result is that voters in Hispanic-majority election districts were removed at a rate nearly 60 percent greater than other districts. Moreover, according to WNYC, voters in New York’s 7th district were disproportionately impacted. WNYC reported that the number of purged voters in congressional district 7 constituted the highest percentage among the six congressional districts that include Brooklyn, and a rate about 25 percent greater than the rest of Brooklyn, which had 8.8 percent of voters purged. As a result of the sheer volume of purged voters in such a small area, it is imperative that the U.S. Department of Justice assign federal monitors at polling locations in the New York’s 7th congressional district, especially those located in heavily Hispanic areas. Doing so is necessary to protect New Yorkers’ right to vote. Given the pervasive pattern of problems, it is difficult to have confidence that voters will not encounter other difficulties and barriers when heading to the polls next Tuesday. Assigning federal election monitors would help protect the most fundamental right of voters in my district on election day. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
06.16.2016	Bill Would Close Decades-Old Loophole Allowing Conflict of Interest Washington, DC – The House Committee on Financial Services today approved legislation authored by U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to close a decades-old loophole that has caused significant financial losses for many Puerto Rican investors and retirees. Velázquez’s bill, H.R.5322, would extend to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico and all the U.S. territories the same protections as those afforded to investors residing on the U.S. mainland. “I find it unconscionable that Puerto Ricans cannot access the same transparency requirements and consumer protections other American investors benefit from,” Velázquez noted. “This regulatory and legislative oversight has resulted in many Puerto Ricans losing hard earned retirement dollars – a practice my bill would bring to an end.” It has been publicly reported that some actors in Puerto Rico have used the current law’s loophole to act both as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, and then repackaged those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. While this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to the 1940 exemption, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland. The situation has been compounded by Puerto Rico’s ongoing debt crisis. Puerto Rican investors holding government bonds have suffered massive losses and are claiming that at least one major investment company did not properly disclose the risks of these funds, due to this conflict of interest. “Retirees and other vulnerable citizens are being fleeced because of this outdated exemption in federal investment law,” Velázquez noted. “This bill would ensure statutory parity by ending this practice.” At the time the exemption was created in 1940, it was suggested that Puerto Rico and other “U.S. possessions” were physically located too far away for the Investment Act protections to be enforced. Since then both Hawaii and Alaska, which are farther away from the mainland than Puerto Rico, have been granted statehood and the protections in the 1940 Act. Additionally, air travel between the U.S. and Puerto Rico is common and many of these financial instruments are today traded electronically. “It is absurd to suggest that we are unable to have a robust financial regulatory presence in Puerto Rico for geographical reasons,” Velázquez added. “All this exemption does today is enrich large financial companies at the expense of vulnerable retirees and working families.” The legislation, the “U.S. Territories Investor Protection Act”, was approved by the Committee by a vote of 59 to 0. It must now be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. Velázquez, the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, is the third most senior Democratic Member of the Financial Services Committee.
06.15.2016	Rejects Eminent Domain; Calls for Protection of Jobs in Tank Siting Process Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the recent agreement for tank placement as part of the cleanup of the Gowanus Canal: “I am pleased the City has agreed to building the tanks to reduce Contaminated Sewage Overflow (CSO) for a cleaner Gowanus Canal. In preserving urban parkland, EPA has accepted the City's request for an alternate location across the street from Thomas Greene Park. While the City has taken steps to preserve all the existing open park space, it should be just as careful when it comes to protecting small businesses and local jobs. “Going forward, we must be certain that the staging of the construction is done in a manner that minimizes impacts on the area’s businesses, jobs and, in particular, a busy local television production studio. I visited the Eastern Effects facility that employs over 200 people during shoots and at least 30 people off season. I am pleased to hear that NYC DEP staff is now visiting the facility, as well. “In all cases, eminent domain should be avoided. EPA did not require that NYC exercise eminent domain. EPA has acknowledged in their comments a willingness to work with the City to find alternative approaches that do not require the exercise of eminent domain for obtaining land for the CSO retention tank and the staging area. “We should be clear the agreement does not hinge on where the tank construction staging site is located and there should be flexibility and adjustments as to how the staging is designed. In that regard, I encourage agencies at all levels of government to engage with the community on the design and work with local businesses to minimize displacement. “I look forward to working with the City to find a solution that has the least impact on businesses and local employment.” # # #
06.15.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the shooting that took place in Orlando: "The attack in Orlando is an affront to our nation's values of tolerance, inclusiveness and love for one another. We stand together in solidarity with Orlando in condemning this monstrous act and making abundantly clear that we will not let hate win. At times like this, we must come together and care for one another. We are one with Orlando."
06.09.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding H.R. 5278: When I was fortunate enough to be elected by my community to the U.S. Congress, I was not naïve. I understood that there would be tough votes. PROMESA is one of those votes – perhaps the most challenging of my career – and, for me, this is deeply personal. I was born in Yabucoa as the proud daughter of a sugar cane worker who fought for worker's right his entire life. I went to college at the University of Puerto Rico in Rio Piedras, and was a professor at the University of Puerto Rico at Humacao. My family – my brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, nieces, and nephews – all live on the island. I am a Puerto Rican. It is who I am. The difficulties facing the island are substantial and the blame for them can be spread from San Juan to Washington, DC to Wall Street. The lack of parity for federal funds caused the island's government to borrow well beyond its means. As a result, its debt tripled in the last 15 years, growing at an annual rate of more than twice its GNP. The federal government continued to treat Puerto Rico like it was a laboratory experiment – creating incentives and then removing them, leaving economic chaos and job loss behind. Wall Street enabled the local government's addiction to the bond market, coming up with new ways to turn cash flows into debt instruments. Together, this was a powder keg waiting to explode. And in the end, it is not the political elite or Wall Street tycoons who suffered, but instead the working class families who call the island home – my brothers and sisters, literally. So we find ourselves at a fork in the road. One path leads us to PROMESA and the ability for the island to restructure 100 percent of its debt. The only other route sends Puerto Rico to the courthouse where it will be at the mercy of its well-heeled creditors and their legion of lawyers. Some would have you believe that if we only yell louder, there will be a third option. But let me tell you, I have screamed so loud that I no longer have a voice. I have helped lead the fight to improve the legislation in a way that would protect the people of Puerto Rico and provide meaningful debt restructuring. I have joined my brothers and sisters on the island, in New York and throughout the entire diaspora in pushing for the best possible solution to this crisis. The stark reality we now face is that, other than PROMESA, there are simply no other politically feasible options left on the table. I also do not believe that somehow, magically, the island and its retirees will be better off with an unfunded pension system and a decade worth of litigation fueled by creditors with an army of attorneys. Viewing that option as superior is not only wishful thinking; it is dangerous rhetoric and a recipe to lose an entire generation to forced migration to the mainland. It is important to emphasize this again – PROMESA provides the island with the ability to restructure 100 percent of its debt. This sounds esoteric to many, but I can assure it is not. It is the only viable way for the island to reduce the billions it owes. Yes, billions. By doing so, you give the island the hope for a future where its budget is not consumed by interest payments, but instead provides funding for schools, hospitals and roads. While far from perfect, PROMESA, as reported by the Natural Resources Committee, is the only option that can save the island's public pension system and give its working families a shot at a better future. Am I angry that the bill contains labor provisions that are not only obnoxious, but counterintuitive? Yes. Am I outraged that Puerto Rico will have to foot the $370 million price tag for an Oversight Board that many do not want? Yes. Do I believe that the creditors, who lent the island money and bought debt on the cheap, should wait in line behind retirees even though the Puerto Rico's own constitution says otherwise? Yes, I do. Should the bill include incentives for economic growth and parity for health care? Of course it should. But, we do not live in a perfect world. The reality is that Republicans are in control and we have no choice but to compromise. I have studied the bill and talked to everyone that came through my door with only one hope in my heart: to choose – as a Puerto Rican – what is best for my fellow Puerto Ricans. I have no other agenda. Trust me, the easy path for me would be to oppose this bill – but in my heart I do not believe that is right. What I do believe, now, more than ever, is that we have to make this difficult, but necessary choice. And PROMESA, in its current form, while far from perfect, is better than sitting on our hands and doing anything at all. Without it, those who have already endured so much – Puerto Rico's most vulnerable, its children, its seniors, its working families – will only suffer further. Regardless of what's ahead, one thing is clear. This current saga has demonstrated the steep price the island is paying for its colonial status. This muddled situation has made it impossible for Puerto Rico to develop a lasting economic model that works and that reflects its hopes and aspirations. Instead, corporate America – from sugar, to oil, to pharma – has exploited the island's resources and its labor force for its own benefit – leaving behind destruction and poverty. Come see for yourself – see the burnt out sugar fields, the empty warehouses, and the decaying factories. They are the remnants of economic experiments gone bad. Puerto Rico needs to determine what its economic model will be – rather than having one imposed on it from afar. Until the U.S. government ends these colonial conditions, there will be no long-term recovery. This is why my colleagues need to rise to this challenge in the next six months and pass another bill addressing Puerto Rico's deep-seated economic challenges and health care crisis. But for me, in the present and as a proud Puerto Rican, I cannot sit by and do nothing. I cannot hide behind alternatives that do not exist. It is not why I took this job. We must move forward. And, for that reason, I will be voting for PROMESA today, so long as it maintains its current balance.
06.09.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the recent shooting in Tel Aviv: “My thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this horrific act. We must continue working toward peace in this region and standing for Israel’s right to defend itself against unprovoked violence. In that regard, I recently met with the Deputy Special Envoy on Israel-Palestine Negotiations to discuss the U.S.’ role in protecting Israeli and American citizens. This most recent attack is a tragic reminder of the need to secure a safe and peaceful future for Israel and the Middle East.” # # #
06.07.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) was joined today by New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman in introducing new legislation aimed at addressing problems in the Section 8 housing program. Flanked by New York City tenants, housing advocacy groups and other elected officials, Velázquez announced the “Landlord Accountability Act”, a measure to protect tenants, particularly those in the Section 8 program, from unscrupulous behaviors by landlords. “Throughout New York, we’ve heard of landlords allowing units to fall into disrepair with the goal of displacing lower income tenants and then renting apartments for greater profit,” Velázquez said. “My bill would protect residents of Section 8 buildings and other properties from these unconscionable abuses, while holding unscrupulous landlords to account.” “Every family deserves a safe place to call home,” said Attorney General Schneiderman. “But for too many families, rising rents and stagnant incomes are making it harder and harder to find – and to hold on to – a decent place to live. We need the Landlord Accountability Act to protect Section 8 tenants across New York State from discrimination and to make it easier for struggling families to find safe, affordable places to call home.” Recent media reports have documented instances where landlords neglect Section 8 eligible apartments, causing them to no longer qualify for a voucher. By removing units from Section 8, this practice essentially raises rents on lower income tenants, forcing them from their homes. To help address this, Velázquez’s legislation would establish monetary penalties if landlords take actions, or neglect to act, with the intention of disqualifying their units for federal housing programs. Landlords could be fined up to $100,000 for violations by the government and face a second set of fines of $50,000 with revenue going to the harmed tenants. “It has become clear that many of these landlords understand only one thing -- money,” Velázquez added. “With this bill, if they try to force tenants from their homes, we’re going to hit dishonest companies where it counts – in their pocketbooks.” Velázquez’s bill would extend other assistance to aggrieved tenants. The measure would establish a new Multifamily Housing Complaint Resolution Program to receive complaints, investigate and attempt to resolve disputes through mediation. Complaints received through the new program would be made publicly available. With New York facing a growing crisis in affordable housing, the bill would expand the availability of affordable housing by ending discriminating against tenants with a Section 8 voucher. As more than half of New York City renters are now considered “rent burdened”, it is increasingly difficult for working families to secure affordable apartments. The legislation would for the first time ban housing discrimination based on a tenant’s use of a housing voucher. “You cannot legally discriminate against a potential tenant based on race, religion or gender and this same protection should extend to a potential tenants’ income,” Velázquez added. Beyond assisting Section 8 voucher holders, the bill would direct federal resources to local programs that benefit other tenants. A new $25 million grant program would steer resources to local agencies that provide aggrieved tenants with assistance and legal advice. Locally based initiatives like New York City’s Tenant Harassment Prevention Task Force could apply for this federal support. Velázquez has been active in several recent landlord-tenant disputes throughout New York’s 7th Congressional District. In March, she wrote a company accused of allowing units at a Ridgewood complex to fall into disrepair. The Congresswoman also helped support Chinatown tenants whose landlord was accused of neglecting buildings in an effort to convert the properties into luxury buildings. Velázquez’s bill, which she will officially introduce in the House later this week, has garnered support from a wide range of advocacy groups including: Make the Road NY; Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A; Urban Homesteading Assistance Board; Legal Aid; Los Sures Housing Corporation; Association of Neighborhood and Housing Development, Inc.; the Black Institute; Families United for Racial and Economic Equality; the Bowery Alliance of Neighbors; Community Service Society; Fifth Avenue Committee; Neighbors Helping Neighbors; Asian Americans for Equality; Churches United for Fair Housing; Tenants and Neighbors; New York Asian Women's Center; Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation; Grand Street Settlement; New York Communities for Change; Cabrini Immigrant Services; St. Nicks Alliance; National Alliance of HUD Tenants; VOCAL-NY; and the Urban Justice Center. “Housing is a basic human right,” Velázquez added. “We must speak with one voice in opposing landlord abuses and standing up for our most vulnerable neighbors. I am honored to have such a broad coalition supporting the Landlord Accountability Act.” A detailed summary of the Congresswoman’s legislation is available online here.
05.20.2016	Washington, DC – Three New York City Members of Congress today held a town hall focusing on the need for Congress to pass legislation reinstating portions of the Voting Rights Act. That landmark law was significantly weakened in 2013 when the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Shelby County v. Holder that portions of it were out of date, removing important protections for minority and other voters. “The right to vote is fundamental,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “When we are talking about progress on any other issue - access to health care, affordable housing, a cleaner environment or investment in education - it all starts with the ballot box. For these reasons, we need to make sure voters’ rights are protected and that will mean finding a way to legislatively reinstate the Voting Rights Act.” “Participating in the democratic process is one of our most fundamental rights as American citizens,” said Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY). “It is imperative that we make every effort to protect voters from discrimination. I thank all of our panelists who took the time to speak about an issue that affects not only our communities here in New York City, but vulnerable communities all across the country—access to the polls.” “We deserve a government of the people, by the people and for the people,” said Rep. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). “The right to vote is central to the integrity of our democracy and the ability of the people to determine who represents them at the city, state and federal level. Serious mistakes were made in connection with last month's presidential primary in New York City, particularly as it relates to the Brooklyn voter purge. The information obtained at our hearing represented a meaningful step forward in understanding what happened, why it happened and how we can prevent another electoral debacle from ever happening again.” During today’s town hall, the Executive Director of the New York City Board of Elections fielded questions from Members of Congress. Among other topics, the discussion examined recent voting problems in New York City’s primary. “This is not a theoretical discussion,” added Velázquez. “The fact is we do not know if the recent problems in the New York primary would have happened if the Voting Rights Act were still intact. However, we all can agree these issues underscore that our system is far from perfect and we should err on the side of more voter protections, not fewer.” Under the Voting Rights Act, certain states and counties were previously required to clear with the Department of Justice changes to voting rules and districts before instituting them. The locations requiring this “pre-clearance” were selected based on previous patterns of voting discrimination with the intent of preventing rule changes that would block minorities and other vulnerable populations from voting. However, the Supreme Court’s 2013 ruling held that the selection process was out of date, thereby rolling back these protections for many areas, including the Bronx, Kings and New York counties. Democrats in Congress have since been calling for legislation to update the Act and reinstate the voting protections in a manner that passes constitutional muster. Other speakers at today’s event included election and voting experts from the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, LatinoJustice, the Brennan Center for Justice and the Center for Law and Social Justice at Medgar Evers College.
05.19.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) and José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) commented on legislation related to Puerto Rico that was introduced. The following may be attributed to Velázquez: “The debt crisis facing Puerto Rico and its people is growing worse by the day, but I am encouraged by the recent introduction of legislation to assist the island. “Real progress has been made to make a comprehensive restructuring process truly accessible for Puerto Rico, which is the most critical component of the bill for Puerto Ricans. Debt restructuring represents the only path to reducing the island’s suffocating debt load and, without it, Puerto Ricans will face harsher cuts in education, safety and health. “In other areas, significant improvements have also been made from previous versions to make the Oversight Board more respectful of the island. While the bill continues to contain wage provisions and a lack of pension protections, both of these matters have benefitted from changes in the bill. Wage provisions were made less harmful and bondholder prioritization language was dropped. Would I like to see further changes? Yes, but the bill in its current form represents real compromise. “To push this across the finish line, there are several improvements that I would like to see made – and this is what the legislative process is for. In this regard, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues as the bill moves through Congress. “I want to especially thank Leader Pelosi, Speaker Ryan, Ranking Member Grijalva and Chairman Bishop for their leadership. I also have to recognize Antonio Weiss of the Department of Treasury for his perseverance in working to get this deal done.” The following may be attributed to Serrano: “Once again I thank the Natural Resources committee for taking into consideration our feedback and incorporating numerous suggestions from our side. I also want to thank leadership from both sides of the aisle for their hard work to bring the bill to this point. “The bill agreed to and released by the committee represents real progress, including in the restructuring language and in preserving local input in the process. It is not perfect, and further changes may be needed in addressing issues affecting working families and retirees as this legislation moves through the House, but I believe that we have taken several steps in the right direction. I look forward to working on these issues as the bill moves forward, and providing the island with the tools needed to comprehensively address this crisis.” # # #
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news reports that the Administration is preparing a new round of deportation raids targeting immigrant families: "These unconscionable raids are an affront to our heritage as a nation of immigrants. These actions do nothing to make our nation safer, but they do sow fear among immigrant communities and families by targeting women and children who, in many cases, have already fled dreadful circumstances. The Administration must cease these shameful tactics immediately." # # #
05.10.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news reports that residents of 83 and 85 Bowery had reached a tentative agreement with their landlord that would allow building repairs to occur without permanently dislocating residents: “If it holds, this deal has great promise for ensuring these residents will keep their homes, while necessary improvements are made to the buildings.” On Friday, Velázquez wrote the landlord asking for information on the case and asking that the tenants be protected from eviction. Velázquez’s letter may be downloaded here. The Congresswoman also spoke at a rally this morning in support of the tenants. # # #
05.09.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has written the owner of two buildings at 83 and 85 Bowery, where the landlord has failed to make necessary repairs and is now attempting to evict 27 families from their homes. “All of us must stand united in opposing landlord abuses,” Velázquez noted. “If this is another instance of a landlord behaving unscrupulously to turn a quick profit, we need to work together and ensure these tenants’ rights are protected, necessary repairs are made and the residents are allowed to stay in their homes.” The full text of Velázquez’s letter is below and a .pdf may be downloaded here. May 6, 2016 Joseph Betesh Bowery 8385 L.L.C. 15 West 37th Street, 11th Floor New York, NY 10018 Dear Mr. Betesh: I am writing regarding disturbing reports and allegations I have heard pertaining to your company’s management of the buildings at 83 Bowery and 85 Bowery. As the Representative for New York’s 7th Congressional District, and a Senior Member of the Committee on Financial Services and its Housing Subcommittee, I am deeply concerned by these allegations. Members of the properties’ Tenants Association have reported that the buildings are unsafe and that living conditions in the buildings are substandard. Problematic conditions include, but are not limited to: deteriorated wood beams and joists along the staircases; slanted floors and staircases; leaking ceilings that have resulted in mold and mildew on ceilings and walls; peeling plaster and paint; deteriorated bathroom tile and mortar; and inadequate heat in the winter months. The media has reported that one resident had to use an umbrella to stop-up a leak until the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (“HPD”) investigated the incident and forced your company to make repairs. As a result of these conditions, I am informed the Department of Buildings (“DOB”) and HPD have issued numerous violations at 83 Bowery and 85 Bowery and DOB has issued partial vacate orders. These reported living conditions are disturbing, but what is perhaps more alarming are reported claims that your company is intentionally allowing the buildings to fall into disrepair as an excuse to empty them and evict 27 families from their homes. According to court filings, “the landlord has conjured up a claim that the buildings are in imminent danger of collapse and is attempting to use it as a vehicle to quickly empty out two buildings in Chinatown and evict 27 families from their homes.” If such motivation is in fact correct, these actions are unacceptable. While all appropriate steps must be taken to repair the buildings’ structural deficiencies, it is unlikely that such a drastic step as eviction is necessary. Recent court filings filed on behalf of the properties’ Tenants Association indicate your company can make the necessary repairs while the tenants remain in their units. Furthermore, the tenants have presented a detailed 14-page affidavit from a structural engineer detailing the conditions at the buildings, an assessment that the buildings can continue to be occupied by the tenants while repairs are made, and an explanation of how this can be done. These problems with apartment conditions, building maintenance and harassment, as reported by your tenants, are unacceptable. Therefore, to help resolve the situation in a timely manner, I request that Bowery 8385 provide a written response, and all supporting documentation to the following: Bowery 8385’s efforts to address the tenants’ above referenced concerns regarding the physical conditions of the units, the buildings as a whole, and common areas, since its acquisition of the properties. Bowery 8385’s work plan and timeframe for remedying the tenants’ above referenced concerns regarding the physical conditions of the units, the buildings as a whole, and common areas. Please provide any documentation or history you have received from an engineer, architect, construction company or other certified practitioner about options for remediating the building while the tenants remain in place. Please provide any plans or alternatives they presented to you. If you have not made such inquiries, please provide an explanation as to why not. Please provide complete copies of any vacate orders on the two buildings issued by DOB, HPD, and/or the New York City Fire Department documenting your claim that there are severe structural deficiencies at the buildings, that they are in danger of immediate collapse, and that they pose a detrimental threat to human life. If these buildings are truly structurally unsound, such documentation from the City should exist and we ask that you produce it forthwith. The developed drawings and specifications, created by a professional structural engineer licensed in the State of New York, to repair and reconstruct the staircases and floor framing along both buildings that have been filed with DOB. The work permits Bowery 8385 has received from all applicable City, County, and State agencies to perform repair and reconstruction work on both buildings. To ensure problems relating to apartment conditions, building maintenance and tenant harassment do not become serious problems in the future, provide a proposal for how Bowery 8385 intends to maintain the buildings, and maintain them free of harassment in the future. As the purported reason for vacating the buildings is to remediate them and not to remove 27 families from their homes, I would ask whether your company will commit to the continued tenancy of the families who reside at the buildings. Further, I ask whether you will register the apartments with the New York State Division of Housing and Community and Renewal (“DHCR”) as required by law and charge rent in accordance with the guidelines of the New York City Rent Guidelines. Please provide a written response and accompanying documentation of the requested information outlined above within 30 days. Thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. If you have any questions regarding this matter, please feel free to reach out to my staff at (202) 225-2361. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress CC: Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., District Attorney, New York County # # # # # #
05.05.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Cinco de Mayo: "On Cinco de Mayo we pay tribute to the heritage of Mexican Americans and the victory of those Mexicans who fought to defend their nation against the French army. "As we commemorate this battle and pay homage to how Mexican immigrants strengthened our communities, we must also look to the future. All of us must stand united in working to advance meaningful immigration reform that respects families and honors our nation's immigrant traditions. In that regard, we must continue defending President Obama's commonsense executive actions to help fix our broken immigration system." # # #
05.02.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Puerto Rico would today default on a $422 million debt payment: “This unfortunate news only underscores the need for Congress to act swiftly. The Puerto Rico financial crisis is rapidly becoming a humanitarian crisis and this most recent default is only the tip of the iceberg. We need to quickly enact legislation that allows for meaningful restructuring of Puerto Rico’s debts before the situation deteriorates further.” # # #
05.02.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Asian Pacific American Month, which is observed in May: “Those of us from New York City know that our diversity is our strength -- and Asian Americans are an important part of our nation’s beautiful cultural tapestry. “Today, New York has the single largest Chinese population of any city outside of Asia. I’m proud to represent two of New York’s largest Asian American communities in Manhattan’s Chinatown and Sunset Park in Brooklyn. “All Americans should take the opportunity during Asian Pacific American Month to pay homage to the rich history and many contributions of Asian Americans throughout the United States.” Note: a video greeting can from the Congresswoman can be watched by clicking here. # # #
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding news reports of a brutal attack in Chinatown in which, according to media reports, a restaurant owner was beaten after defending a waitress: "Like the rest of our community, I am shocked and saddened by this horrifying attack. Our City must speak as one in condemning violent acts like these. I urge the authorities to fully investigate and prosecute this unprovoked act of violence, including determining whether prejudice played a role and if this would therefore qualify as a hate crime." 維樂貴絲回應在唐人街的攻擊事件 華盛頓特區— 關於一個最近的唐人街的攻擊事件，國會眾議員維樂貴絲發表了以下聲明。 據媒體報道， 一位唐人街的餐館老板因捍衛一個女服務員而遭受暴力襲擊： “對於這可怕的攻擊，我和我們社區的其他人一樣感到震驚和難過。我們的 城市必須聯合起來發言，譴責這樣的暴力行為。我促請當局進行充分調查和 起訴這樣無端的暴力，包括是否有偏見的因素存在，以及是否符合仇恨犯罪 的行為。” # # #
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today applauded new Department of Justice rules providing greater oversight on investigations related to national security. The new rules come after several high profile cases in which Chinese American scientists were wrongfully accused of espionage. Those charges were subsequently dropped. In November, Velázquez wrote the Department of Justice raising concerns that Asian Americans were being unfairly targeted for investigation. “These recent cases suggest a troubling pattern of individuals being targeted for investigation and prosecution based on race or ethnicity,” Velázquez noted. “Adding greater oversight to this process will help prevent profiling, protect the rights of Americans and prevent wrongful accusations.” Since December of 2014, federal prosecutors have accused four Chinese American scientists of providing sensitive information to the Chinese government or Chinese companies and then dropped the charges. The new Department of Justice rule will mean prosecutors in Washington will be more involved in national security cases, providing more scrutiny in such cases. “While the charges against these scientists may have been dropped, their reputations suffered and they were forced to endure an unfair and unnecessary investigation,” Velázquez added. “It is my hope these new rules help prevent future mistakes and hold to account prosecutors who would otherwise play fast and loose with the facts.” Velázquez’s Congressional district includes Manhattan’s Chinatown and Sunset Park. # # #
04.28.2016	Washington - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement regarding lower estimates for funding for Red Hook Flood Protection: "Given that previous proposals suggested funding commitments of $200 million, it is difficult to see how this more recent funding level of $100 million would be sufficient. "We should keep in mind it usually costs more than projected to actually complete work on large scale projects like these. "A case in point in my district is Brooklyn Bridge Park, which well surpassed original cost estimates and is now approaching $400 million. "While a different kind of project, it is worth noting the Park spans half the distance of the waterfront under consideration for an Integrated Flood Protection System in Red Hook. "Also in my district, the 'East Side Coastal Resiliency' project's length of waterfront is comparable to Red Hook's and it received $335 million. "While all of these are deserving projects that should receive adequate funding, the point is additional resources will be necessary to adequately protect Red Hook from future flooding and extreme weather. Ultimately, the feasibility study will help determine how much money will be necessary. My office has been working with Governor Cuomo's and Mayor de Blasio's offices and will continue advocating for additional resources." # # #
04.20.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Passover Holiday: “To all my friends and neighbors observing Passover, I want to wish a Zeesen Pesach and a joyous celebration with family and friends. “Through its traditions such as a shared meal, Passover exemplifies the spirit of community and family coming together. Not only is it when we pay tribute to the history of the Jewish people, but it is also a time to care for one another. In that regard, I ask all my friends to think of our most vulnerable neighbors as we honor the sacrifices the Jewish people have made over the centuries.” # # #
04.15.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) released the following statement following the New York City Council Land Use Committee’s vote on the Mayor’s Rezoning Plan for East New York: “I am grateful to see that this plan has been revised from previous versions to take into account a number of concerns voiced by the local community. In March, I wrote the City Council to draw attention to several provisions in the plan that I felt needed correcting in order to protect tenants’ and working families’ interests. “It is particularly heartening that the City Council revised the plan to remove the Arlington Village Parcel from the rezoning. This 300,000 square foot parcel of land in the middle of the rezoning area is a strategic and pivotal site for the future redevelopment of the neighborhood. This site is critical to the future of the entire community and therefore merits its own land use review process with full public review and comment. “I also appreciate the relief that was provided to existing homeowners. The City Council has agreed to convene a working group to study the issue related to legalizing basement units in East New York. The inclusion of $12 million in funding to support conversions or other small home repairs will help maintain homeownership. Also, the Department of Housing, Preservation and Development will work with the City Department of Environmental Protection to implement a water rate relief program for low-income homeowners and affordable housing tenants. “Despite these positive developments, I have deep reservations about other elements of this proposal. Ultimately, this is about expanding and maintaining local affordable housing options. I find it troubling that the AMI levels for new housing in the neighborhood have not been adequately adjusted to fully reflect the community’s needs. It’s my hope that further changes will be adopted before the full City Council votes on this proposal. Regardless of that process, I will continue working with the community and city officials to push for more affordable housing options in East New York and throughout our City.” In March, Velázquez wrote the City Council asking for changes to the proposal to better meet community needs. That letter is available online here. # # #
04.07.2016	Washington, DC – The New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) changed its automated customer phone system today to offer Asian language options including Mandarin and Cantonese. The agency’s announcement comes a week after Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote a letter to NYCHA asking that the system add these languages to its system. “I thank NYCHA for taking this step to be more inclusive and responsive to Asian communities,” said Velázquez who represents Manhattan’s Chinatown and Sunset Park. “Absent this change, many NYCHA residents could encounter problems getting maintenance assistance or simply securing housing.” Velázquez wrote her letter after hearing from a constituent in New York’s 7th district who brought the issue to her attention. The Congresswoman's letter noted that NYCHA’s Customer Contact Center’s automated telephone system directs callers, in English, to press “1” for English; directs, in Spanish, Spanish callers to press “2” for Spanish; and then directs all other callers, again in English, to press “3” or stay on the line for assistance. “This change was overdue and I’m glad to see it being addressed,” Velázquez added. “We must continue working to make all elements of NYCHA more responsive to New York’s diverse communities.” In addition to adding Mandarin and Cantonese, NYCHA said it would be including a Russian language option. Over 7,900 NYCHA families are Asian immigrants or of Asian heritage. # # #
03.31.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) has written the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) calling for improvements to the agency’s Customer Contact Center automated system. In her letter, Velázquez, who represents Manhattan’s Chinatown and Sunset Park, noted that the automated phone system does not sufficiently meet the needs of Asian-language speakers. The system provides audio instructions in English and in Spanish, while providing English language instructions for all other callers. “A significant number of NYCHA tenants could encounter difficulty getting help with maintenance issues, building repair or simply securing housing due to this oversight,” Velázquez said. “This is something that can and should be quickly fixed.” Over 7,900 families living in NYCHA developments are Asian immigrants or of Asian descent. The full text of the letter is below. Shola Olatoye Chair, New York City Housing Authority 250 Broadway New York, NY 10007 Dear Chair Olatoye: As you know, the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) serves a broad and diverse population, including non-English speaking members of the Asian community. It is critical that NYCHA’s Customer Contact Center’s automated system be fully accessible to the Asian community. I urge NYCHA to improve its language assistance services for these residents. Recently, a resident of New York’s 7th Congressional District brought a matter to my attention. She indicated that NYCHA’s Customer Contact Center’s automated telephone system directs callers, in English, to press “1” for English; directs, in Spanish, Spanish callers to press “2” for Spanish; and then directs all other callers, again in English, to press “3” or stay on the line for assistance. Non-English speaking NYCHA residents in the Asian community are put at a disadvantage when compared to their English and Spanish speaking counterparts, as they are often unable to understand the automated system’s final direction. Over 7,900 NYCHA families are Asian immigrants or of Asian heritage, and many of these residents are left perplexed and confused by its automated system. The language barrier presented by NYCHA’s automated system is particularly concerning for those living at a location without a designated onsite property manager to help facilitate translation services. As a result of the barrier presented by its automated system, many residents and families in the Asian community are unable to report maintenance issues, request repairs, and resolve payment questions. According to NYCHA’s September 2015, Language Assistance Services Implementation Plan, Mandarin and Cantonese were the third most frequently encountered language requests in 2015. Its Customer Contact Center received over 7,900 calls in Mandarin and Cantonese, approximately 5 percent of all the language calls that were serviced. While the report states that, “NYCHA has taken and continues to take reasonable steps to ensure [Limited English Proficient] persons have meaningful access to NYCHA’s programs and activities,” its Customer Contact Center’s automated system suggests otherwise. A barrier so fundamental as the one created by NYCHA’s Customer Contact Center’s automated system must not be overlooked. I urge NYCHA to make necessary improvements to the automated system so that it is accessible for non-English speakers in the Asian community. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # # # # #
03.29.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) and José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) issued the following statement regarding the public release of legislation affecting Puerto Rico: "We thank Chairman Bishop for his efforts to draft legislation to address the financial crisis in Puerto Rico. We recognize this is a challenging process and that there are many stakeholders with different priorities. Our hope is that we can see our way through this and come together to give Puerto Rico a path forward. "While recognizing that the bill is a draft and will evolve over coming weeks, we have several immediate concerns. First and foremost is that the oversight board, as currently structured, undermines Puerto Rico's rule of law. It would allow the board to declare Puerto Rico's own laws 'null and void,' while also permitting the board to enact its own laws over the objections of the island's government. Such powers do not provide oversight, but rather usurp the role of Puerto Rico's own democratically-elected government. Because of these concerns, we cannot support the legislation in its current form. "With regard to the design of the restructuring portion of the legislation, we believe it is promising, but are hopeful further refinements can be made. To this point, we have asked that future drafts be revised to prioritize retirees and ensure their benefits are paid. This change would provide assurance to the many working class Puerto Ricans who rely heavily on their government-provided pensions. "We look forward to working with Chairman Bishop as the process moves forward." # # #
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Purim 2016: “Purim is one of the most joyous holidays observed by the Jewish people. In commemorating the story of Esther, it also celebrates the strength of the Jewish people who have survived so many challenges over the centuries. “In addition to merrymaking, Purim is also a time of charity and gift giving and I encourage all New Yorkers to care for one another and think of our more vulnerable neighbors. To all my friends celebrating this year, I say, ‘Purim Sameach’.” # # #
03.23.2016	Washington, DC – The House Committee on Small Business today approved two pieces of legislation aimed at helping entrepreneurs to succeed. The measures would strengthen and reform federal Entrepreneurial Development (ED) programs, which target training and technical counseling to business owners and prospective entrepreneurs. A second bill would reform the Small Business Innovation Reform (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, which bring R&D funding to small businesses. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the Ranking Democrat on the Committee helped formulate both bills and said the measures would create jobs and spur economic growth. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy and the programs we reformed today provide them important assistance,” Velázquez noted. “By ensuring these initiatives are operating at full speed, we can foster entrepreneurship and bolster job creation.” Velázquez is the author of H.R. 207, the “Developing the Next Generation of Small Businesses Act.” The measure would reform ED programs run by the Small Business Administration (SBA) such as Small Business Development Centers, Women’s Business Centers and SCORE (formerly the Service Corps of Retired Executives). Among other changes, the bill would implement uniform accountability standards for local service providers, so entrepreneurs everywhere would receive the same quality of counseling and training. Last year, the SBA resource partners that administer ED training provided over 600,000 individuals with 1 million hours of training. “Entrepreneurial Development initiatives can help new businesses launch and existing ventures grow,” Velázquez noted. “By investing in and improving these programs, we are strengthening our broader economy.” A second bill marked up today, H.R. 4783, would reauthorize the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. The SBIR and STTR programs provide R&D funding in the form of competitive grants to small businesses that develop products and technologies for government use. The legislation approved today increases the amount of funding federal agencies must dedicate to the SBIR and STTR initiatives. The bill, which Velázquez co-authored, with the Chairman of the Committee, would reauthorize the program for five years, providing needed stability for program participants. In addition to co-authoring H.R. 4783, Velázquez offered two amendments aimed at improving the SBIR and STTR programs, both of which were approved by the Committee. Her proposals would expand outreach to minority and other underserved small businesses to engage them in the SBIR/STTR initiatives and help businesses commercialize their products. “SBIR and STTR can help integrate small businesses into government’s research needs, resulting in product and technology innovation,” Velázquez added. “When new products are created, we strengthen our nation’s technological edge, while creating good jobs for the future.” The legislation passed the Committee today on a nonpartisan, voice vote. It must now be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
03.21.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s trip to Cuba: “The President’s visit to Cuba is another historic step toward normalizing relations between our two countries. Engaging with Cuba in a manner that helps open the country economically and politically is long overdue and I applaud the President for moving U.S. policy in that direction. “In that regard, it is important we look at ways to foster access to capital for budding entrepreneurs on the island. Helping small businesses and the self-employed in Cuba secure financing for their ventures will improve the lives of the Cuban people and accelerate positive changes that benefit both our nations.” In February of 2015, Velázquez joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and other Democratic House Members as part of a Congressional delegation visiting Cuba. A member of the Cuba Working Group, Velázquez has long advocated normalizing relations with Cuba, cosponsoring legislation that would reverse the longstanding U.S. policy aimed at isolating the country. # # #
03.17.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) released the following statement regarding news today that federal prosecutors are investigating elevated blood lead levels, in public housing and homeless shelters: “These allegations are disturbing. There is no greater priority than protecting the health of our neighbors, public housing residents and, especially, our children. The suggestion that City agencies may have filed false claims with the federal government is also troubling. “My office will follow up on this matter, seek a full accounting of the facts and try to determine how we can better leverage federal resources to address these problems swiftly. “This issue also underscores the importance of adequately investing in the maintenance of our public housing stock. That’s one reason I wrote my colleagues in Congress today calling for greater funding this year for public housing capital improvements and maintenance.”Note: Velázquez’s letter calling for additional resources is online here. # # #
03.17.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez today led members of the New York City Congressional delegation in writing to Congressional appropriators calling for additional funds for the maintenance and operation of public housing. The letter comes as it was reported in New York City that some New York City Housing Authority residents may be exhibiting elevated lead in their blood stream. The text of the letter is below. March 17, 2016 The Honorable Mario Diaz-Balart Chairman Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations United States Congress 440 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable David Price Ranking Member Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations United States Congress 2108 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chair Diaz-Balart, and Ranking Member Price: As the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies begins its important work of considering funding for Fiscal Year 2017, we urge you to take steps in FY 2017 to preserve the nation’s most at-risk public housing and improve the health and safety of tens of thousands residents by increasing Public Housing Capital and Operating funding in FY 2017. Federal housing assistance is essential for providing safe, decent, and affordable housing for many of our nation’s most vulnerable populations. As such, we recognize that this investment requires a robust and proportional increase to the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (T-HUD) 302(b) and urge the Appropriations Committee to increase the T-HUD 302(b) in FY 2017. We urge you to increase the Public Housing Capital Fund to $5 billion. While we recognize this amount is higher than President Obama’s Request, this additional funding is critical. At least $600 million of the increased funding should be targeted to capital repairs that would improve the health of residents including health problems caused by mold in housing units. This investment should address the root cause of residents’ health concerns related to mold. The root causes of the mold in public housing are leaky roofs, crumbling exterior bricks, and old piping. Addressing these repairs could improve the health and quality of life for thousands of low-income children, elderly, and residents with disabilities. Inter-agency collaborations—such as the one undertaken by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs—that reduced homelessness for America’s veterans would be key in addressing the health impacts of residents. Collaboration between HUD and the Department of Health and Human Services would extend health resources and expertise to housing units and allow agencies to measure the health impacts and federal cost savings related to the capital investment. Congress should require HUD to have PHAs identify a public health issue that capital repairs will impact and to develop a detailed work plan outlining a timeline and the course of action. Congress should require that HUD submit semi-annual reports on PHAs’ progress in making capital repairs that should be publicly available to all interested parties, including residents. We also urge you to increase the Public Housing Operating Fund to $5.302 billion. While this requested amount is also higher than the President’s FY 2017 Request, every dollar is needed to operate public housing and this requested amount would allow PHAs to respond more quickly to health and safety-related maintenance issues. For properties with mold, increased funding would allow PHAs to provide quicker remediation efforts, take steps to prevent mold from forming, and provide a higher level of basic property maintenance. In addition to helping PHAs with their mold remediation efforts, increasing the Public Housing Operating Fund to $5.302 billion will provide PHAs with additional resources to maintain public safety features of developments and engage in efforts related to crime prevention. Increasing the Public Housing Operating Fund will help PHAs to maintain security cameras, locks, and stairway lighting and resident-led participation activities which have demonstrated success in reducing illegal activity. Without these types of investments, PHAs across the country are a risk of losing valuable public housing units. Since 2010, nationwide 200,000 units of public housing have been lost and 10,000 are at risk of being lost each year unless critical funding gaps are filled. After years of underfunding public housing we are now approaching a cross-road; we can invest and preserve our nation’s valuable public housing or we can choose to lose public housing units because of underfunding, decay, and neglect. Therefore, we urge you to increase funding to preserve public housing. Sincerely, Nydia Velázquez Grace Meng Carolyn B. Maloney Charles B. Rangel Gregory Meeks Eliot L. Engel Yvette D. Clarke Jerrold Nadler Joseph Crowley Hakeen Jeffries # # #
03.09.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) released the following statement regarding attacks that took place in Israel on Tuesday: "Acts of violence like these are an affront to all of us and we must be unified in condemning them. I previously joined my House colleagues in calling on the Palestinian Authority to repudiate attacks like these and take concrete steps to prevent future violence. Today, I repeat that call. "I am praying for all the victims, including the American citizen who was killed, for their families and that Israel and the region may find peace and healing." # # #
03.04.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) has written to Silvershore Properties, a real estate company, calling for information on treatment of tenants at one of the firm’s Ridgewood properties. Velázquez’s office received reports from tenants that the company had allowed the property to fall into disrepair, potentially jeopardizing eligibility for some of the units in the “Section 8” program, which provides a housing voucher for lower income residents. “We’ve heard reports throughout the City that some unscrupulous landlords are gaming the system to end Section 8 vouchers and essentially evict low income New Yorkers from their housing,” Velázquez noted. “These allegations must be taken seriously, which is why I am asking Silvershore Properties to explain how they intend to remedy these problems.” The text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below. March 3, 2016 Jason Silverstein David Shorenstein Silvershore Properties 38 East 29th Street, 8th Floor New York, NY 10016 Dear Mr. Silverstein and Mr. Shorenstein: I am writing on behalf of the tenants at 1708 Summerfield Street in Ridgewood, Queens, many of whom feel they are being treated unfairly by representatives of your company, or those in its employ. As the U.S. Congressional Representative for New York’s 7th Congressional District, and a Senior Member of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Financial Services, which oversees matters pertaining to public and private housing, as well as issues related to urban development, I am deeply concerned by these allegations. Members of my staff met recently with a number of the residents at this property. Many of them reported unsafe and substandard living conditions with their units including, but not limited to: mildew and mold inside their bathrooms and kitchens, severe paint peeling and water damage in the ceilings and walls, cockroach and rodent infestations, and inadequate heat in the winter months. Additionally, residents expressed serious concerns with building-wide issues such as: entrance doors not being sufficiently locked resulting in unauthorized individuals in common areas, excessive garbage accumulation, and failure to provide sufficient maintenance to common areas. Based upon documentation provided by residents of the 1708 Summerfield Street complex, the New York City Housing Authority’s (NYCHA) Leased Housing Department has determined that the above referenced conditions has caused at least some of the building’s units to fail to meet the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Housing Quality Standards during a recent inspection. These documents further indicate that your company, as the landlord, has been informed of the situation and has been advised to make the repairs necessary in order to ensure the building complies with HUD’s Housing Quality Standards. This documented evidence makes clear that if your company fails to make the necessary repairs within 30 days, NYCHA will be forced to suspend rent subsidies under the Section 8 Housing Assistance Vouchers Program. As you know, the loss of subsidies falls squarely on the landlord and cannot be collected from tenants. However, correspondence from Silvershore Properties provided to my office also suggests that in at least some of the tenants’ billing statements, the federal rent subsidies of those tenants participating in the Section 8 Housing Assistance Vouchers Program have not been acknowledged and your company is now claiming tenants are responsible for the full rent balance. These problems with apartment maintenance, building security, and billing inaccuracies, as reported by your tenants, are unacceptable. Therefore, to resolve the situation in a timely manner I request that Silvershore Properties provide a written response, and all supporting documentation to the following: Silvershore Properties‘ efforts to address the tenants’ above referenced concerns regarding the physical conditions of the units, the building as a whole, and common areas, since its acquisition of the property. Silvershore Properties’ work plan and timeframe for remedying the tenants’ above referenced concerns regarding the physical conditions of the units, the building as a whole, and common areas. Silvershore Properties’ efforts to remedy the above referenced concerns regarding the on-going inaccuracies in the billing statements and rent subsidies for those tenants participating in the Section 8 Housing Assistance Vouchers Program since its acquisition of the property. Silvershore Properties’ proposal and timeframe for resolving the billing inaccuracies for those tenants participating in the Section 8 Housing Assistance Vouchers Program who are currently claiming discrepancies in their billing statements and rent subsidies. To ensure problems relating to apartment maintenance, building repair, and billing inaccuracies do not become serious concerns again, provide a proposal for how Silvershore Properties’ intends to prevent them in the future. Please provide a written response and accompanying documentation of the requested information outlined above within 30 days. Thank you in advance for your cooperation with this matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Cc: Hon. Julian Castro, Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development Hon. Eric Schneiderman, Attorney General, State of New York Hon. Antonio Reynoso, City Councilmember, 34th CD Shola Olatoye, Chair and CEO, New York City Housing Authority Carmelyn P. Malalis, Commissioner and Chair, NYC Commission on Human Rights Gary Giordano, District Manager, Community Board 5, Queens # # # # # #
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – A prominent national environmental advocacy group has given Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) a 100% rating on her voting record for 2015. The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) released their annual voting scorecard, which gauges lawmakers support for environmental causes. “I’m proud of my record of voting to preserve our planet and protect healthier communities,” Velázquez said. “The League of Conservation Voters is one of our nation’s most vocal environmental advocates and their rating of my voting record reflects my commitment on these issues.” The LCV scorecard examined lawmakers’ votes on a wide range of issues including climate change, clean energy, the Keystone XL Pipeline, the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal and genetically modified food labeling. “Certain special interests and large companies are pushing an extreme, anti-environmental agenda in Washington and it is critical we stand up to them,” Velázquez noted. “I will continue basing my votes on what’s good for New York City, our neighborhoods and the planet.” Out of 27 U.S. House Members representing New York State, Velázquez was one of only seven receiving a 100% rating. In addition to her strong voting record in support of the environment, she has worked to obtain “Superfund” status for sites in New York’s 7th Congressional District, including the Gowanus Canal, Newtown Creek and the Wolff-Alport Chemical Company. This allows federal resources to be used in remediating these sites. “At the end of the day, environmental issues are about the public health and ensuring we can raise our children in communities free of dangerous pollutants,” Velázquez concluded. “This will remain a key priority for me going forward.” # # #
02.22.2016	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Small Business today convened a field hearing in New York City. The purpose of the hearing was to provide small manufacturers with a forum to testify on their experiences and challenges doing business in New York City. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the Committee, said the hearing helped highlight a manufacturing revival underway in New York City. "While New York City is often thought of as a financial and media capital, we also have a rich manufacturing history and we are seeing renewed growth in this area," Velázquez noted. "By fostering success in this sector we can reinvigorate our local economies and create well-paying jobs in our City." Velázquez was joined by the Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), and Reps. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) and Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY). "Time and again, I have been impressed with the tenacity Nydia has for defending and supporting small businesses," said Chairman Chabot. "While manufacturers might be 'small' businesses, a single manufacturing job can lead to the creation of three to five more jobs in other industries. That's why today's hearing about manufacturers and the jobs they create for New Yorkers was so important." "New York City continues to lead all other cities as the financial and cultural capital of the world, in fact one of its most valuable assets is its diversity," stated Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY). "In order to sustain our current level of competitiveness in today's and tomorrow's economy, we must provide support to all economic sectors and industries. One often overlooked, yet extremely vital economic sector, is manufacturing where tens of thousands of New Yorkers are employed to produce billions in annual revenue. As we contend with the challenges of an increasingly global and diverse economy, I would like to applaud the leadership of Chairman Chabot and Ranking Member Velázquez for taking the initiative to explore ways to support manufacturing in New York City, so that we may continue to maintain our competitive edge as a place to work and thrive for manufacturers, their employees and the communities that they strengthen and support." "Manufacturers in New York City have made great strides, created jobs, and continue to produce more and more high value goods and services," said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY). "But, if we want to remain one of the most productive states in the nation, we cannot take our eye off the ball. Through supporting our small business owners, women and minority owned business, and helping Community Development Financial Institutions, we are beginning to see a difference that's leading to more jobs and more economic growth and stability in our region." During the hearing, representatives from local manufacturers including Linda Tool, Early Bird Foods & Co., LLC., MANUFACTURE NY and FXE Industries testified about their experiences building their businesses in New York. The Director of the Pratt Center for Community Development also testified about issues facing New York's small businesses. Witnesses and Members of Congress discussed how sites like the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Liberty View Industrial Plaza/Bush Terminal and the Sunset Park and Red Hook waterfront industrial zones are becoming hubs of commerce and industry. "New York's creative reuse of industrial space is serving as a model for other cities around the country," Velázquez added. "By leveraging New York's assets we can accelerate the manufacturing resurgence we are already seeing, creating sustainable jobs and greater opportunity." The House Small Business Committee was established to protect and assist small businesses. The Committee has jurisdiction over matters related to small business financial aid, regulatory flexibility, and paperwork reduction. Additionally, the Committee has oversight and legislative authority over the Small Business Administration (SBA) and its programs. # # #
02.09.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement on the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget: “The President’s Budget builds on the vision he outlined in his State of the Union Address in January and would make vital investments in our nation’s future. If implemented, this set of proposals would strengthen our City and create greater opportunity for New York’s working families for decades to come. “I was particularly pleased to see this Budget places so much focus on creating educational opportunity. It includes $9.6 billion for Head Start, $434 million more than what was previously enacted for 2016, increasing the length of Head Start programs. This initiative has been vital to New York City children and I’m happy to see it prioritized. The Budget also increases funding for Preschool Development Grants, laying the groundwork for universal preschool throughout the nation. “Likewise, the President’s Budget would strengthen our economy for the long term while generating greater opportunity for working families and American businesses. By investing in America’s small manufacturers and directing additional resources to workforce training programs, the Budget would help strengthen our industrial base. In Brooklyn and throughout New York City, we are seeing a manufacturing resurgence and the President is wisely calling on us to further bolster that sector. “The Budget also seeks to position our nation as a leader in the clean energy advancements by providing a 20 percent increase over 2016 for clean energy research and development across 12 agencies. Not only do investments like these preserve our planet for future generations, but they also position our country and City to host the jobs of the future. “Part of securing opportunity for all Americans means providing safe, livable housing for working families, especially in tight housing markets like New York. The Budget aims to provide over $38 billion in rental housing assistance to support 4.5 million low-income families through the Housing Choice Voucher, Project-Based Rental Assistance, and Public Housing Programs. With homelessness on the rise in our City, the Budget also invests $11 billion in mandatory spending and $2.8 billion in discretionary spending for targeted homeless assistance. “Lastly, but equally important, I would note that the President’s Budget proposes important changes to how we treat Puerto Rico. The humanitarian and fiscal crisis unfolding there is a national disgrace and urgent action is needed on multiple fronts. I’m heartened the President’s Budget would move toward providing Puerto Rico with greater parity under the Medicare DSH and Earned Income Tax Credit Programs. “The budget also urges Congress to approve a debt restructuring mechanism for Puerto Rico. The fact is that without a meaningful debt restructuring the situation in Puerto Rico will only continue deteriorating. Now, it is incumbent on Speaker Ryan and Congressional Republicans to join their Democratic colleagues in moving such a proposal forward. “On balance, the President’s budget makes smart investments in the future of our nation and City. I will continue working in Washington to see these proposals implemented.” # # #
02.04.2016	Today, U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-Queens) and Nydia Velázquez (D-Brooklyn/Manhattan/Queens) led members of the New York City Congressional delegation in writing to New York City Police Department (NYPD) Commissioner William Bratton about an alarming rise in crimes committed in the Asian American community in New York. "All New Yorkers deserve to feel safe," said Velázquez. "The recent numbers on crime rates in our Asian American communities are troubling and demand action. We expect NYPD to not only examine these trends but propose tangible solutions to address this problem." "The rise in crime against the Asian American community is very troubling," said Meng. "We hope that after receiving our letter, the NYPD will determine why this is occurring, and make every effort to combat this disturbing spike in criminal activity. We look forward to working with Commissioner Bratton and NYPD officials to solve this serious problem." Other New York City Members of Congress who signed the letter include: Reps. Joseph Crowley, Steve Israel, Hakeem Jeffries, Jerold Nadler, Charles Rangel, Jose Serrano and Gregory Meeks. The full text of the letter is below. February 3, 2016 Commissioner William J. Bratton New York City Police Department 1 Police Plaza New York, NY 10007 Dear Commissioner Bratton: We write to express our concern about the alarming increase in crimes committed against the Asian American community in New York City. According to the annual 'Crime and Enforcement Activity in New York City' report your Department produces,[1] "Asian/Pacific Islander" was the only race/ethnicity category that experienced an increase in the percentage of victims for every type of crime[2] measured between 2008 and 2014, the years for which reports have been made publicly available. Unfortunately, the rise in New York City's Asian American population does not account for the increasing number of Asian American victims of crime. For example, between 2008 and 2014, Asian Americans went from accounting for 2.1% of the victims of felony sex crimes to 5.5% – the ratio more than doubled, unlike the rise in the Asian American population of the city. Furthermore, the percentage of Hispanic victims fell dramatically while their overall share of the city's population increased. Clearly, troublesome trends are emerging. Frankly, we do not know what the underlying causes of these disturbing trends are. Nor do we necessarily know the solution. What we do ask, however, is that the NYPD prioritize combating the growing trend of Asian American victims of crime, and that you keep us informed of the steps you are taking to counter these trends. Increasing the number of Asian Americans who are uniformed NYPD officers, currently only 6.2% of the force, to align more closely with the city's 13% Asian American population may be a good first step. We look forward to working with you to solve this growing problem, and thank you for your service. Sincerely, # # #
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) today announced that over $30 million in federal resources have been awarded to local Head Start and Early Head Start initiatives located throughout New York's 7th Congressional District. "Head Start and Early Head Start provide comprehensive services supporting the development of children from low-income and working families," Velázquez noted. "These federal dollars will go a long way to helping kids in our communities prosper, grow and succeed in life." The Head Start Program is an initiative through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that provides comprehensive early childhood education, health, nutrition, and parent involvement services to low-income children and their families. HHS provides grant funding to local community partners who deliver health, nutritional and educational services to local families. Similarly, Early Head Start is a federally funded program for low-income families with pregnant women, infants, and toddlers up to age 3. The grant funding will support services expected to assist over 2,500 New Yorkers. "Studies consistently show that children benefit from Head Start services not only early in life, but also later in their educational careers and throughout their lives," Velázquez added. "This is a critical pillar in our communities and I'm pleased to see these federal resources invested, right here, in New York City." Local agencies and service providers received the following grant amounts: • Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, Inc. - $1,093,011 (5002 8th Avenue, BK) • Catholic Charities Neighborhood Services, Inc. - $ 11,450,503 (191 Joralemon Street, BK) • Chinese Community Concerns Corporation, Inc. - $1,641,973 (180 Mott Street, NY, NY) • Educational Alliance - $6,684,684 (197 E Broadway, NY, NY) • United Academy Inc. - $5,292,504 (722 Wythe Ave. BK, NY) • Yeshiva Kehilath Yakove, Inc. - $2,276,189 (638 Bedford Ave. BK, NY) • Y M & Y W H A of Williamsburg, Inc. - $2,449,150 (64 Division Ave., BK, NY) "These local agencies are on the front lines of providing our neighbors vital health and human services and I'm proud the federal government is partnering with them," Velázquez concluded. "Investing in our children makes our City and neighborhoods stronger. I will continue fighting in Congress for additional funding for Head Start and Early Head Start." # # # # # #
01.21.2016	$3.4 Million in Loans Made to New Yorkers in December, January Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) was joined today by U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet in New York City where the two officials announced SBA disaster loans are once again available for businesses, renters and homeowners harmed by Hurricane Sandy. The program originally stopped taking applications in July of 2013, but many businesses and homeowners did not apply for help due to lengthy processing and other bureaucratic hurdles. Thanks to a new law, H.R. 208, authored by the Congresswoman and enacted in November, New Yorkers that have an unmet financial need from Hurricane Sandy now have until December 1, 2016 to apply for a disaster loan. “While we have made significant progress in our recovery, many businesses and homeowners continue feeling economic and physical damages inflicted by Sandy,” Velázquez said. “By reopening the SBA’s disaster loan program and encouraging more businesses to apply, we can help our communities fully heal from this historic catastrophe.” Administrator Contreras-Sweet stated, “The additional time for businesses, homeowners and renters to request federal disaster loans will go a long way in continuing to support the rebuilding efforts of the communities affected by Superstorm Sandy. I want to thank the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate and House Small Business Committees for their leadership on this issue. I was pleased to join Rep. Velazquez in her district today to make sure those impacted by this disaster take advantage of this expanded opportunity. To date, the agency has received more than 1,000 applications. We have improved processing time on applications and, on average, provide a disaster loan decision in eight days and cash disbursement on average five days after receipt of loan closing documents. To date, we have approved $2.5 billion dollars in loan assistance to more than 37,000 individuals and businesses affected by Sandy.” During the events held in Chinatown and Red Hook, it was announced that already $3.4 million has been lent to New York City businesses and homeowners since the program reopened in December. The SBA has also been working to reduce processing times for disaster loan applications with the average time now down to 11 days for businesses and 8 days for homeowners. Immediately following Sandy, a Government Accountability Office report requested by Velázquez found SBA was taking as long as 45 days to approve or deny some loan applications, suggesting the process has improved significantly. “It is important New Yorkers know these resources are available,” Velázquez added. “If you are a business owner, renter or homeowner who gave up on the process previously, I suggest you reapply for assistance this year to be made whole.” Under the SBA’s disaster loan program, renters, homeowners, businesses, and non-profits are all eligible to apply. Residents can receive up to $200,000 to repair physical damage -- and $40,000 to replace personal belongings. Businesses and non-profits are eligible for up to $2 million. Additional information on the SBA’s loan program can be found on the SBA’s website at: https://www.sba.gov/loans-grants/see-what-sba-offers/sba-loan-programs/disaster “The faster our businesses recover, the more quickly our City’s economy will fully come back from Sandy,” Velázquez concluded. “I urge all eligible New Yorkers – businesses, renters and homeowners alike – to look into this program and see if it is a good match for them.” # # #
01.13.2016	Washington, DC –Today, the House Committee on Small Business approved legislation aimed at reforming and strengthening rules that help small businesses and other disadvantaged firms compete in the federal marketplace. H.R. 4341, the “Defending America’s Small Contractors Act of 2016”, includes provisions from a number of bills authored by the Committee’s membership including a measure introduced by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the Committee. “The federal marketplace spends almost half a trillion dollars billion on goods and services every year,” said Velázquez. “The legislation the Committee approved today will help small businesses win their fair share of federal contracts, fueling growth and creating good paying jobs.” Over the last year, the Committee has held a series of oversight hearings examining how the federal procurement process functions and ways the system could be improved. Federal agencies are required to ensure certain percentages of contracting work go to small businesses and other targeted firms, such as those owned by women, minorities and veterans. However, the hearings have found that these businesses continue to encounter significant barriers when seeking to compete in the federal marketplace. “When small businesses are awarded federal contracts the result is a win-win,” noted Velázquez. “A federal contract can help a small company expand and hire additional workers, while the government receives quality goods and services. The provisions in this bill will help more small businesses engage in this process, diversifying the federal government’s supply chain and strengthening our industrial base.” Provisions in the bill made a number of changes, increasing transparency in agency contracting and procurement goals so there is a clearer picture of how federal dollars are spent. Additionally, there are several measures that clarify the language of the Small Business Act, making it easier for contracting officers and small businesses to not only understand, but, also, implement and comply with contracting and procurement law. As the federal government changes how it purchases goods and services with greater reliance on strategic sourcing, task orders and larger procurement vehicles, the bill would also help small businesses engage in newer procurement processes. “In Fiscal Year 2014, $2.8 billion in federal prime contracts was spent in New York City,” Velázquez noted. “It is important that local, smaller businesses are able to navigate the process and compete for these dollars.” The legislation passed on voice vote with strong bipartisan support. As the Ranking Democrat on the Committee, Velázquez negotiated the content of the bill with the Chairman, Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), and helped ensure other Democratic Members’ legislation was incorporated including: H.R. 4325, the Unifying Small Business Terminology Act of 2016 (Rep. Velázquez); H.R. 4337, Education for Contracting Personnel Improvement Act of 2016 (Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY)); H.R. 4330, Improving Contract Procurement for Small Business Through More Accurate Reporting Act of 2016 (Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY)); H.R. 4329, the Transparency in Small Business Goaling Act of 2016 (Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA)); H.R. 4326, the Small and Disadvantaged Business Enhancement Act of 2016 (Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC)); and H.R. 4339, the Improving Small Business Advocacy Act of 2016 (Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA)). “I want to thank Chairman Chabot and all my colleagues for working in such a productive, bipartisan fashion,” Velázquez concluded. “I believe when this measure is enacted it will help many New York City entrepreneurs navigate the procurement process, win federal work, expand their customer base and create greater opportunity in our City.” The bill now must be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
01.08.2016	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) spoke today at a press conference regarding recent U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids that apprehended Central American refugees. Following are her remarks: “The Statue of Liberty, one of the great symbols of our nation has an inscription. It reads, ‘Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.’ If anyone is ‘tired and poor’ – would it not be the refugees from Central America fleeing violence and abuse and terror? Yet we are apprehending them, denying them basic legal representation and potentially deporting them. These raids are an affront to our core values and traditions! “The Administration needs to explain something. It is a very simple question. They - rightfully so - argue we should provide safe haven to refugees fleeing violence in Syria and the Middle East. However, they would at the same time say we should apprehend those fleeing violence in Central America. “How does that make any sense? This is not an issue of immigration enforcement - it is a refugee issue and it is a human rights issue! Many of these refugees have not had legal representation. “This does not just affect the refugees being sought by ICE. Other household members are being apprehended during these raids. That is not ‘targeted’ as ICE claims. “We have heard of ICE using deception and misinformation to gain access to residences. Immigrants – documented or not – have rights. And these raids are being conducted in a way that violates those rights! These are some of the most vulnerable members of society - and we are treating them like criminals. “I have heard from my district. Immigrants and their families feel terrorized that men wielding guns are going to break down their doors or snatch their children from schools. We are here to send a clear message to the Administration and the President. “We say with one collective voice - Mr. President, this must stop. It must stop today! We are a greater nation than this!” # # #
12.21.2015	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that two NYPD officers were shot and killed in Brooklyn: "This act of violence against these officers has no place in our community. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of these fallen officers.” # # #
12.18.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the omnibus spending bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives today: “It is unconscionable that Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell prevented the year-end spending bill from containing meaningful provisions to address Puerto Rico’s fiscal problems. This is not only a fiscal crisis, but is rapidly becoming a humanitarian one. 3.5 million American citizens were counting on Congress and the Republican Leadership turned their back. “Until late last night, Leader Pelosi and I were pressing the Republican Leadership to move legislation that would aid Puerto Rico, but Republicans would not relent. Speaker Ryan has pledged to work on this issue early next year. My fear is that effort will be too little, too late, but I will of course continue pursuing all available options. In that regard, now that Congressional Republicans have failed to act, I expect them to neither criticize nor interfere should the Administration take steps to help the island. Republicans have forfeited that right. “There are a number of critical items in the omnibus unrelated to Puerto Rico. Notably, the legislation reauthorizes the Zadroga 9/11 Health Act, which is vital to our first responders suffering from 9/11-related ailments. We cannot abandon those who risked their own lives assisting others when our country was attacked. It is critical that program be extended. “Likewise, I am concerned that if this omnibus did not pass, we could see a return to sequester spending levels for another year, depriving our communities of resources they need to help working families and seniors throughout New York City and our nation. “For these reasons, I voted for the omnibus, albeit with reluctance. To my colleagues who opposed the legislation based only on Puerto Rico-related provisions, I hope you are involved next year in constructive, substantive efforts seeking real solutions. At the end of the day, we all must vote our conscience and, while I remain saddened by this current episode, we have a responsibility to continue funding the government. I plan to redouble my efforts on this issue and will be reminding Speaker Ryan of commitments he made. I expect the 5 million Puerto Ricans spread throughout our nation in states like Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania will do so, as well. “I would like to thank Leader Pelosi for her tireless efforts and continuing to prioritize Puerto Rico in negotiations. I would also like to thank all the members of the Puerto Rican community and the advocacy groups who fought so hard. This fight is not over.” # # # # # #
12.17.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today regarding the omnibus, year-end spending bill and provisions related to Puerto Rico. The text of her remarks are below and a video clip can be watched here: “Mr. Speaker, it is unconscionable that the legislation we are considering does nothing to address Puerto Rico’s mounting debt crisis. “Puerto Rico’s crisis is decades in the making and it stems from years of neglect from this body – the United States Congress. The U.S. Congress brought us to where we are. Now it has a moral responsibility to act -- yet my Republican colleagues are standing in the way. “Giving Puerto Rico authority to restructure its debts would not cost taxpayers a dime, but it would help solve the fiscal crisis. “To those who say Puerto Rico needs to cut spending --- I ask you – how much more? The island spends $2,000 less per student than the average spent on the mainland. The government has already closed nearly 100 schools this year, in addition to 60 closures last year. “Sales taxes are the highest in the United States – and were increased from 7.0 percent to 11.5 percent. The government has laid off 21 percent of its employees since 2008 and the 2016 budget makes further cuts. So Puerto Rico is doing its part to raise revenue and cut expenses. “Stop playing Russian roulette with the well being of the Puerto Rican people --- American citizens! “Despite these reforms, Wall Street hedge funds want more. They bought this debt at cheap prices and now they want it all – they are willing to inflict deep suffering on 3.5 million American citizens in order reap massive profits. Sadly, Congressional Republicans decided to side with the hedge funds in constructing this bill. “Mr. Speaker, the 3.5 Americans living in Puerto Rico are watching. Five million Puerto Ricans who live on the mainland are watching. This is a dark hour. The Governor of Puerto Rico is here (point to him in gallery) and asking you to help those Americans that call the island home. “And while we are all going home for the holidays, for the 56 percent of the American children in Puerto Rico living in poverty, this omnibus – which fails to help them – is their Christmas present from our Republican colleagues. Instead, let’s show the world real American values – and send this bill back to the drawing board – and give Puerto Rico the help it needs! I yield back.” # # #
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote to the New York City Parks Department asking for a review of the agency’s safety protocols for contractors involved in tree removal. The letter comes after a Red Hook deliveryman died after being struck by a falling tree in Coffey Park. The full text of the letter is below: December 17, 2015 Mitchell J. Silver, FAICP Commissioner New York City Department of Parks & Recreation 830 Fifth Ave New York, NY, 10065 Dear Commissioner Silver: I write to you regarding a recent incident in New York’s 7th Congressional District where a bicycle deliveryman died after being hit by a tree that was being cut down by contractors hired by the Parks Department. As you know, in November, Jing Liu was on his way to deliver food from the restaurant where he worked when he was hit by a falling tree being cut down by Parks Department contractors in Red Hook’s Coffey Park. Mr. Liu died from his injuries two days later. Obviously, this is a profound tragedy for our entire community. It also raises serious safety concerns. According to media reports the firm involved failed to follow a number of existing safety rules. For example, crews are expected to work in groups of four, but according to press reports, the company was using only a two-person team. It has also been publicly reported that the area was not properly secured with cones and tape and Parks Department oversight was lacking. It is my understanding that the Parks Department has terminated its relationship with the contractor involved in this incident. However, it is important we ensure similar events do not take place in the future and that safety protocols are up to date, effective and being followed. In that regard, I would respectfully ask for answers to the following questions: What specific safety protocols and guidelines are contractors employed by the Parks Department to cut down and remove trees and branches required to follow? How are contractors and their employers informed of these protocols and trained in how to observe them? As a matter of standard operating procedure, how frequently are these protocols regularly reviewed and updated? It was reported in the media on November 30th that the Parks Department was conducting a review of its safety regulations. Is that review complete and what was the outcome of the Department’s analysis? What changes are being instituted? If the review is not complete, when will the results be made publicly available? I know you share my commitment to public safety. I therefore look forward to your response to these timely questions. If you or your staff have questions about this inquiry, please contact my staff at 202-225-2361. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez # # #
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today voted against legislation that would largely shut the door on refugees fleeing violence in Syria. The bill, H.R. 4038, authored by House Republicans, would place a moratorium on Syrian refugees entering the United States potentially for years, while security standards that are largely duplicative of existing protocols are developed. Velázquez said the legislation is a political response to the recent violence in France that would leave many desperate, innocent refugees in the cold without meaningfully enhancing U.S. security. “We can keep our nation safe, while continuing to accept refugees who are fleeing the crisis in Syria,” Velázquez noted. “Turning our back on families with children desperately seeking our assistance would be a betrayal of our values and hand ISIS an enormous victory.” Since October 2013, about 2,200 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States. Half of these Syrian refugees are children – families driven from their homes by the savage war in Syria and ISIS’s brutal rule. A quarter of these refugees are adults over 60. These 2,200 Syrian refugees have proven to be law-abiding residents of the United States. “Slamming the door shut on law abiding refugees when they most need assistance is not a way to enhance national security, but it is political demagoguery,” Velázquez added. “These families are fleeing ISIS’ terror and we have a humanitarian obligation help them.” The United States already has a strict security screening and vetting process for refugees entering the country. Today, refugees of all nationalities, including Syrians and Iraqis, considered for admission to the United States undergo the most rigorous and through screening and security vetting of any category of traveler or immigrant to the United States. Unlike in Europe, the United States screens all refugees for 18-24 months before they even set foot on U.S. soil. The current screening process involves multiple federal intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies, including the National Counterterrorism Center, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Departments of Homeland Security, State, and Defense, all aimed at ensuring that those admitted do not pose a threat to our country. The screening includes biometric (fingerprint) and biographic checks, medical screenings, and lengthy interviews. Syrian refugees go through additional levels of security screening, including a thorough pre-interview analysis of each individual refugee application. “This legislation would abandon thousands of innocent refugees fleeing political violence in order to institute duplicative screening standards that already exist,” Velázquez added. “It is unconscionable and I felt morally compelled to vote no.” # # #
11.18.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement on the passing of Jin An Liu, the Brooklyn deliveryman who passed away after being struck by a tree while cycling in Red Hook: "My heart breaks for this loss. The passing of one of our neighbors at such a young age is tragic and our entire community mourns. All of us should come together to provide Jin An Liu's family with compassion. "My staff has met with some of the family members and offered my office's assistance. I will continue to work with the family and provide the support they deserve. "I also would like to know whether the contractors employed by the City were observing safety standards and whether safety protocols in these situations are adequate and up-to-date. These are important questions I will be pursuing in coming days." # # #
11.16.2015	Washington, DC – Small businesses harmed by Hurricane Sandy may soon be able to reapply for assistance from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) due to legislation approved by Congress Monday. The bill, H.R. 208, is authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), and would allow many small firms in New York and throughout the country to seek emergency loans from the SBA given the agency's slow response following Sandy in 2012. "The fact is the SBA was caught flatfooted when Sandy came ashore and small businesses seeking relief suffered because of the agency's slow response," Velázquez said. "This new law will mean entrepreneurs in New York and up and down the East Coast will get another chance to apply and be made whole through the SBA's loan process." Following Hurricane Sandy, Velázquez, who is the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, helped document problems in the SBA's disaster loan assistance program. Among other issues, her analyses demonstrated that small businesses waited 46 days to get their application processed by SBA, a three-fold increase over previous Atlantic storms. Many businesses withdrew their loan applications out of frustration, while others never filed a loan after seeing other entrepreneurs in their community encounter significant red tape. In addition to reopening the disaster loan program, H.R. 208 would make needed reforms to the SBA's disaster lending functions, so the initiatives operate more efficiently in the wake of future disasters. SBA will be required to provide upfront notification to borrowers on necessary documentation, as well as establish clear written policies for loan officers. By clearing up confusion for both borrowers and SBA staff, H.R. 208 will ensure funds flow more swiftly to businesses after future catastrophes. Firms would also no longer be prohibited from posting business assets as collateral. This is important as many entrepreneurs previously have had to use personal assets for loan collateral. "For a small business that is struggling to stay solvent after a major disaster strikes, having to wait more than six weeks for an emergency loan isn't an option," Velázquez noted. "These reforms will mean that when disasters strike, the SBA is better prepared to channel assistance to small firms quickly, without needless delays." The passage of H.R. 208 marks the most significant reforms to SBA's disaster lending programs since Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005, prompting Congress to update the emergency lending initiative. "Helping our small businesses after natural disasters should not be a partisan issue," Velázquez noted. "I am pleased Congress was able to work together to pass this measure and look forward to seeing the President sign it into law shortly." # # #
11.12.2015	NEW YORK—Today, Rep. Velázquez joined Mayor Bill de Blasio and the New York City Congressional delegation in urging Congress to invest – not disinvest – from New York City transportation and infrastructure needs, encouraging the House and Senate to pass a long-term surface transportation reauthorization that increases federal funding support for our transportation systems, including subways, buses, streets, bridges, rail, and ferries to meet growing needs. In a letter to the chairs and ranking members of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Mayor de Blasio and New York City members of Congress specifically called for the members of the conference committee to prevent an $80 million annual cut to transit in New York City – which would total $480 million over the six years of the bill – and instead ensure provisions that increase funding for projects in New York City are included in a final transportation bill. The text of the letter is below: Chairman Inhofe, Ranking Member Boxer, Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio: We are encouraged by your progress in providing certainty for the surface transportation program, which is the backbone of the American economy. As you work toward final passage of a long-term surface transportation authorization, we urge you to support provisions providing critical funding support and flexibility for transportation projects in New York City. These measures will help ensure New York City has the resources necessary to continue as a national and global hub of community, culture, and commerce. As one of the most complex, heavily utilized urban transportation networks in the world, New York City has significant maintenance, operating, and capital funding needs. Ensuring this transportation system is well-functioning is critical to the nation's economy. More Fortune 500 companies are headquartered in New York City than any city in the nation, and the region's gross domestic product is roughly 10 percent of nation's GDP. The city's transit ridership reached a record high last year and freight volume is projected to increase by 47 percent over the next two decades. The city has significantly increased resources dedicated to transportation under the current Administration. The next federal surface transportation authorization must increase support for our transportation systems, including subways, buses, streets, bridges, rail, and ferries to meet this growing demand. As the conference committee works to resolve differences between Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy Act (DRIVE Act) and the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act (STRR Act), New York City urges you to prioritize the following issues: • Increasing federal highway, transit, and safety program funding for cities and their regions to levels significantly above baseline. Current federal funding is not enough to maintain current systems, much less improve to accommodate increased demand. • New York City depends on a robust federal transit program and strongly supports provisions in the final bill that maintain at a minimum the historic 20 percent share of the federal program. • Transit program formula allocations in the Senate-passed DRIVE Act including the increase in 5307 and 5340 core transit program funding levels and provisions to increase 5337 program funding. The City strongly opposes the House provision (amendment #156) to eliminate the 5340 High Density program, which would eliminate $80 million annually in critical NYC transit support. • DRIVE Act Capital Investment Grant funding increase and policy. The City supports an 80 percent federal share for all Capital Investment Grant programs and retaining the historic flexibility to provide a local match from funding from all federal programs, including the Surface Transportation Program (STP). • The City supports increasing funding for the Staten Island Ferry and planned Citywide Ferry Service, which includes a new Rockaway route. We urge the conferees to retain Senate-passed DRIVE Act formula changes and funding increase in the highway Ferry Boat Discretionary program, which would double current annual ferry program funding to New York City and benefit future service. The City also supports a new provision to distribute transit Passenger Ferry Grant program through a formula based on passenger ridership to more equitably distribute funding based on demand. • Multimodal freight grant program provisions in the House-passed STRR Act, including guaranteed funding and local eligibility for large, nationally significant freight projects. • The City opposes any funding reductions to the STP sub-allocation for metropolitan regions. • DRIVE Act provisions to support national passenger rail funding and capacity increases, including provisions to advancing the Gateway Program to address needs into New York City Penn Station. America's metropolitan areas are the population and job centers that drive our nation's economic growth and as such, the demands on our transportation systems are enormous. We urge you to increase funding for dense urban transit systems and metropolitan areas in the final bill to ensure they continue to help our nation thrive. In New York City, $100 million in additional funding for projects in the city could support the 1.75 billion annual subway riders, resurface approximately 400 lane miles, implement Vision Zero safety improvements at approximately 50 schools, replace a Staten Island Ferry vessel, and help maintain safety and state of good repair of the City's 789 bridges. We appreciate your consideration as we work together to meet the growing transportation infrastructure needs of New York City and our nation. Sincerely, Mayor Bill de Blasio, New York City The Honorable Yvette Clarke, Member of Congress The Honorable Joe Crowley, Member of Congress The Honorable Dan Donovan, Member of Congress The Honorable Eliot Engel, Member of Congress The Honorable Steve Israel, Member of Congress The Honorable Hakeem Jeffries, Member of Congress The Honorable Carolyn Maloney, Member of Congress The Honorable Gregory Meeks, Member of Congress The Honorable Grace Meng, Member of Congress The Honorable Charles B. Rangel, Member of Congress The Honorable Jose Serrano, Member of Congress The Honorable Nydia Velazquez, Member of Congress # # #
11.08.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote Attorney General Loretta Lynch calling on the Department of Justice (DoJ) to investigate whether recent false accusations of espionage against several Asian Americans were influenced by race, ethnicity or country of origin. The full text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below. November 8, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: I am writing you regarding a troubling pattern of the false accusation and wrongful arrest of Asian Americans under charges of espionage. Such occurrences are especially concerning given that there is the potential that the race, country of origin, and ethnicity of these individuals is playing a role in their surveillance and subsequent arrest. As a result, I am requesting that the Department of Justice (DoJ) conduct an independent investigation to determine whether race, ethnicity, and country of origin has played a role in these arrests. There is growing concern that the specter of espionage is being used to violate U.S. citizens’ civil rights. In the last year alone, at least two Asian Americans have been arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) under allegations of espionage, only to have such charges dropped. Sherry Chen, a hydrologist with the National Weather Service, was wrongfully accused of using a stolen password to download information about U.S. dams and of lying about meeting with a high-ranking Chinese official. Dr. Xi was accused of sharing American-made technology with China. Although both cases were dismissed, both Ms. Chen and Dr. Xi have suffered egregious emotional and reputational harm. Unfortunately, it appears that such instances are not isolated and may exhibit a worrisome trend in federal law enforcement. The Philadelphia Inquirer reported on September 18, 2015 that “[i]n the last 10 months, federal prosecutors have withdrawn high-profile cases against four Chinese American scientists around the nation who had been accused of spying for China or Chinese companies.” This suggests that the degree of false accusations is beyond the scope of the cases brought and subsequently dropped against Dr. Xi and Ms. Chen. Such a pattern of false arrest is extremely disturbing for all Americans and for these reasons I request that the DoJ carry out an independent investigation to determine what role country of origin, race, and ethnicity have played in the arrest of these individuals, as well as others in similar situations. I thank you for your attention to this important civil rights issue and look forward to working with you to ensure that Asian Americans are not being systematically falsely accused of wrongdoing. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
11.04.2015	Measure Comes as Funds Exacerbate Fiscal Crisis in Puerto Rico Washington, DC – Legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) would significantly strengthen reporting requirements for hedge funds, large privately organized, pooled investment vehicles not available to the public whose primary investors are wealthy individuals or institutions. The bill, H.R. 3921, the “Hedge Fund Sunshine Act”, comes as media reports repeatedly link hedge funds to the ongoing financial crisis in Puerto Rico. “It has become increasingly clear that hedge funds, which have purchased a sizeable part of Puerto Rico’s debt, are exacerbating the crisis and profiting from the island’s misery,” Velázquez said. “This bill will allow regulators and the public to see exactly what role these funds are playing in Puerto Rico’s financial crisis and in our broader economy.” Current regulations require hedge funds to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) when they acquire ownership of more than 5 percent of a class of equity securities. Velázquez’s bill would lower that threshold to 1 percent, providing the public and the SEC with a better sense of funds’ holdings and financial positions. In addition, her measure would institute a new quarterly reporting requirement for all securities -- both debt and equity -- in which funds hold a 1 percent or greater ownership stake. This would mean that, for the first time, these funds would publicly report on their larger debt holdings, such as the significant stake many funds are suspected of holding in Puerto Rico’s debt. These requirements would also take into account derivatives like options and swaps, financial instruments often used to skirt reporting requirements. “Hedge funds constitute a $3 trillion industry with enormous impact on capital markets, corporations, local governments and, ultimately, working families’ lives,” Velázquez noted. “Yet, due to loopholes in existing law, they operate largely in the shadows, avoiding scrutiny.” Estimates range widely as to how much of Puerto Rico’s debt is currently held by hedge funds, but there seems to be consensus that the industry’s role is significant. Some media outlets have suggested hedge funds could control as much as 50% of the island’s financial obligations. Through this outsized role, many funds have been pushing for greater austerity measures and against extending bankruptcy protections to the island. “Rather than working to help resolve Puerto Rico’s financial crisis in a fair, orderly fashion, these funds are lobbying to cut basic services that 3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico rely upon,” Velázquez noted. “It is time we take a clear-eyed look at the effect these funds are having on Puerto Rico and on other parts of our nation’s economy.” Velázquez’s bill received wide support from a range of advocacy and labor groups including: Americans for Financial Reform; AFL-CIO; AFSCME; Make the Road New York; Strong Economy For All Coalition; Center for Popular Democracy; and Hedge Clippers. The bill, which is being introduced this week, is expected to be referred to the House Committee on Financial Services, of which Velázquez is a senior member. “From the auto manufacturers to Puerto Rico, we’ve seen time and again that hedge funds often prey on and profit from financially distressed entities,” Velázquez said. “By giving the public and regulators a better sense of hedge funds’ activities, we can finally begin holding this secretive industry accountable for its actions.” # # #
10.26.2015	Measure Would Tax Guns, Clamp Down on Missing, Stolen Weapons New York, NY –Flanked by other elected officials, advocacy groups and families impacted by gun violence, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled new legislation aimed at reducing the number of guns in circulation, bolstering anti-violence and mental health programs and addressing the issue of lost and stolen firearms. Her legislation, being introduced this week in the U.S. House of Representatives, has garnered endorsements from Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown, Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., NYC Councilman Carlos Menchaca, NYC Comptroller Scott M. Stringer, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence and a wide range of other community organizations. "Gun violence is a plague on our city that shatters lives and tears families apart," Velázquez said. "This bill will take meaningful steps to address the issue, reducing the flow of guns on the street, empowering law enforcement to better track missing weapons, while investing in community anti-violence programs." The "Reducing Gun Violence in Our Neighborhoods Act" would take several steps to address the spiraling issue of gun violence in the United States and New York. Across the U.S., almost 600,000 guns are stolen each year from private homes. New York streets are often a destination for guns lost or stolen in states with more permissive gun laws. Accordingly, the bill would strengthen federal reporting requirements for stolen or lost guns, establish a national database for missing firearms and utilize technology so that the origin of recovered weapons can be identified, assisting law enforcement investigations. "Too many New Yorkers have lost their lives due to the 'Iron Pipeline' that illegally funnels guns from southern states into our City," Velázquez noted. "By better harnessing technology, requiring gun owners to report missing firearms and establishing a national database for lost guns, we can assist law enforcement and encourage owners to be more responsible in safeguarding their weapons." The bill would also seek to reduce the sale of new weapons through a federal tax levied on the retail sale of firearms. Revenue from the $100 per-weapon tax would be designated for Department of Justice grants that go to innovative, community-based anti-violence programs and for locally oriented mental health services. "If making guns more expensive means fewer end up in commerce, I'm happy with that result," Velázquez noted. "However, if guns are going to be sold, then those purchasing and selling them should pay for programs that can reduce the incidence of gun violence in our local communities." Velázquez's bill drew wide support from New York City elected officials, the Brooklyn and Queens District Attorneys, local gun control organizations and various community groups. "We are in the midst of a gun violence epidemic in America that has spiraled completely out of control," said Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). "It is time to put public safety over blind allegiance to the gun culture. This bill is a strong step in the right direction with respect to protecting the public, and I commend Congresswoman Velázquez for her tremendous leadership." "As a 22-year member of the New York City Police Department, I know intimately the impact of gun violence on our streets," said Brooklyn Borough President Eric L. Adams. "Gun violence wreaks havoc in many of our communities and will do so until we take great action at the federal level. Until we close the 'iron pipeline,' we will be unable to tackle the scourge of gun violence in its entirety. The Reducing Gun Violence in Our Neighborhoods Act of 2015 is an important piece of legislation that will go a long way towards comprehensively addressing the issue of gun violence in the United States. I thank Representative Velázquez for her leadership on this critical issue of public safety." Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson said, "We, in Brooklyn, are aggressively prosecuting gun traffickers and have taken hundreds of firearms, including assault weapons, off the streets in the course of several investigations with the NYPD. But we need to attack this problem on multiple fronts to stop guns from getting into the hands of criminals who use them to shoot innocent people and kill our police officers. Congresswoman Velázquez's proposed legislation respects the rights of lawful gun owners and gun dealers while seeking to prevent the senseless gun violence, bloodshed and carnage that's occurring every day in communities all across our country due to the easy access to guns and that's why I support it." Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown said, "Reducing gun violence is one of the great challenges of our time. For too long, gun violence has cut short promising young lives and torn families and communities apart. The legislation proposed by Congresswoman Velázquez seeks to meet that challenge with creative new solutions. The bill's major provisions - using technology to identify lost or stolen weapons, creating a national database of missing firearms, and funding community based anti-violence programs and mental health services – will aid law enforcement and enhance community access to critical treatment and service programs." "New York State has enacted some of the strongest gun violence legislation in the nation," said Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., co-chair of Prosecutors Against Gun Violence. "But this interstate crisis demands a national solution. More than 8,500 firearms were recovered and traced in New York in 2013. Nearly 70 percent of them came from out of state. I thank Congresswoman Velázquez for her work on this important bill that will help reclaim communities from the bloodshed wrought by illegal guns." "New York has some of the toughest gun laws in the country, but we remain vulnerable to dangerous weapons in the wrong hands when they so easily cross state lines," said Public Advocate Letitia James. "That's why we need federal protections to crack down on illegal firearms and discourage the purchase of guns nationwide. Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez is an incredible fighter for us in Washington, and I commend her for leadership to help end the senseless gun violence on our streets." "We are proud to stand here today in support of Congresswoman Velazquez's bill," said Leah Gunn Barrett, Executive Director of New Yorkers Against Gun Violence. "Gun violence takes more than 33,000 lives and injures over 84,000 Americans, costing the US economy $127 billion each year. Congresswoman Velázquez's bill would provide much needed funding for mental health programs, something the NRA and the corporate gun lobby should wholeheartedly support based on their rhetoric. Her bill would also establish a much needed national database of lost and stolen firearms so that law enforcement can more easily trace crime guns back to the source. The FBI estimates that more than half a million firearms are stolen each year from homes, businesses and motor vehicles. New York has a lost and stolen firearm reporting law and we are advocating for a statewide firearm safe storage law that would help not only help prevent gun thefts, but also unintentional shootings and suicides. Gun violence in America is a public health crisis and reasonable gun regulations designed to keep guns out the wrong hands save lives. New York State has the 3rd lowest gun death rate in the nation because of our gun laws. We demand that Congress stop its shameful pandering to the NRA and the gun industry it serves and start protecting the health and welfare of all Americans." The legislation is being officially introduced this week in the U.S. House of Representatives. In addition to the groups above, it has been formally endorsed by: NYC Councilman Carlos Menchaca; NYC Comptroller Scott M. Stringer; New Yorkers Against Gun Violence; Violence Policy Center; Brooklyn Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Mother's Against Gangs; Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow; Puerto Rican Bar Association; Mixteca Organization; Community Service Society; Red Hook East Resident Association; Red Hook West Resident Association; Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation; Highland Park Community Development Corporation; North Brooklyn Coalition Against Family Violence; Marcy Houses Tenant Association; Gowanus Houses Resident Association; Wyckoff Gardens Resident Association; Public Housing Communities Inc.; and Boricua Festival Committee, Inc. # # #
10.08.2015	"We are incredibly disturbed by the images depicted in a video that was recently released by El Grito De Sunset Park that depicts the use of excessive force by on-and-off-duty uniformed individuals--including some members of the New York City Police Department. "The video shows an immediate rush to aggressive force against a seemingly unarmed male suspect inside a local bodega in Sunset Park. Without hesitation--we join the call for a thorough and transparent investigation of these incidents by the Brooklyn District Attorney and Inspector General, and the immediate temporary suspension of any involved officers. As elected officials and as a community, we are left with many concerns and questions that must be answered. "Even after the measurable progress we have made in Sunset Park with our local precinct this summer, this type of footage continues as commonplace in our neighborhood--it's business as usual. We stand with our local residents and El Grito in demanding action from the highest brass of the police department, and the immediate removal of these bad apples. "We've had enough. "Our offices will continue to be engaged with the investigative agencies and with community groups to ensure the proper handling of this, and the multiple cases before us. "We have to do better". # # #
10.07.2015	Washington, DC –The U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship today approved legislation to assist small businesses impacted by Hurricane Sandy. The bill, S. 1811, is largely based on a measure authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) that was approved by the U.S. House in July. Both bills would make a number of improvements to the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster lending initiative. Most notably, these measures would give firms impacted by Hurricane Sandy the opportunity to reapply for a disaster loan from the agency. “In the wake of Sandy, many businesses encountered seemingly endless red tape and delays when applying for emergency loans from the SBA,” Velázquez noted. “This legislation would reopen the process and help entrepreneurs still struggling from the effects of Sandy secure financing to aid in their recovery.” Following Sandy, Velázquez helped spearhead a number of investigations examining the SBA’s response to the storm. Reports produced by Democrats on the House Small Business Committee and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) identified numerous problems with the SBA’s disaster lending functions. Among other issues, business owners had to wait 46 days on average for loans to be approved. “For a small business owner struggling to keep their doors open after a Hurricane or flood, waiting a month and a half for assistance is not an option,” Velázquez added. “These delays can make the difference between whether a business stays open or closes, costing our community badly needed jobs.” The legislation passed by the Senate Small Business Committee was sponsored by U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and includes amendments authored by Senators David Vitter (R-LA) and Cory Booker (D-NJ). In addition to reopening the application period for disaster loans, both Velázquez’s bill and the measure approved today would make significant reforms to how the SBA’s emergency lending functions will operate in the wake of future catastrophes. The Senate measure will now need to be considered by the full U.S. Senate. If approved by that body, it would require final consideration in the House. “I’m pleased to see the Senate take proactive steps to address this longstanding problem and thank Chairman Vitter and Ranking Member Shaheen for their leadership,” Velázquez added. “Both the House and the Senate have now moved to reform SBA’s disaster lending program and reopen the loan process for Hurricane-impacted firms. It’s my hope that we can work swiftly to get final legislation to the President’s desk.” # # #
10.07.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today introduced legislation aimed at fueling local economic growth through the use of Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funding. H.R. HR 3697, the "Section 3 Modernization and Improvement Act of 2015", would ensure that residents of public and HUD-assisted housing benefit from job opportunities created by federal housing funds. "For our city to succeed, we must ensure all our neighbors have economic opportunity and that includes those who live in public housing," Velázquez said. "This legislation will ensure federal funding that is used on housing projects creates jobs for residents of those developments and other low income New Yorkers." Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, titled "Economic Opportunities for Low and Very Low Income Persons," requires recipients of HUD housing and community development funding to provide "to the greatest extent feasible" job training, employment, and contracting opportunities for low and very low income residents and eligible businesses. Unfortunately, Section 3 has been inadequately enforced and never reached its full potential. Velázquez's bill would give HUD and the U.S. Congress tools they need to enforce and oversee Section 3, expanding job opportunities for residents of public and assisted housing. Under her legislation, recipients of HUD funding would be held accountable should they fail to fully abide by Section 3 and spend federal resources in a manner that creates jobs and economic opportunity for low and very low income residents. HUD would need to report to Congress regularly on Section 3 compliance and provide specific steps for remedying situations where funding recipients have not met their Section 3 obligations. "Federal housing funding is one of our most powerful tools for creating economic opportunity in traditionally underserved communities," Velázquez said. "We must ensure that we fully leverage these resources to maximize job creation for families living in New York public housing developments." Velázquez's bill was referred to the House Committee on Financial Services. The Congresswoman serves as the third most ranking Democrat on that panel and the second most senior Democrat on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee. # # #
09.29.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding a hearing being held today in the Senate Finance Committee on Puerto Rico’s economic crisis: “Today’s hearing demonstrated that now is the time for the House to do right by 3.5 million American citizens and provide Puerto Rico with bankruptcy protection.” As part of the United States, Puerto Rico deserves equal treatment – and Congress must stop treating the island’s residents like second-class citizens.” # # #
09.25.2015	Bill Would Close Decades-Old Loophole Allowing Conflict of Interest Washington, DC – As Puerto Rico’s debt crisis continues unfolding, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is introducing legislation to close a longstanding loophole that has caused significant financial losses for many Puerto Rican investors. The “Puerto Rico Investor Protection Act of 2015” would extend to investment companies operating in Puerto Rico the same safeguards that govern investment activity in the United States. The exemption, which was written into the Investment Company Act of 1940, has allowed abuses resulting in Puerto Ricans – many of them near or of retirement age – to invest in mutual funds heavily stocked with public debt bonds that have dropped significantly in value due to Puerto Rico’s debt problems. “It is outrageous that, when investing their hard earned money for retirement, Puerto Ricans are not afforded the same transparency requirements and consumer protections that apply in the mainland,” Velázquez said. “This archaic exemption is long overdue for repeal and my bill would do exactly that.” It has been publicly reported that some actors in Puerto Rico have used the current law’s loophole to act both as an underwriter for the issuance of bonds, and then repackaged those same bonds into mutual funds they sold exclusively to investors on the island. While this type of arrangement is legal in Puerto Rico due to the 1940 exemption, it would be prohibited on the U.S. mainland. “Large investment companies are taking a fee for acting as an advisor to Puerto Rican public entities, then repackaging bonds they issued into mutual funds, which they then in turn sell to unsuspecting Puerto Rican consumers,” Velázquez added. “This practice constitutes a flagrant conflict of interest and it must stop.” At the time the exemption was created, it was reasoned that Puerto Rico and other “U.S. possessions” were physically located too far away for the Investment Act protections to be enforced. Puerto Rican investors holding these bonds have suffered massive losses and mutual fund customers have filed hundreds of arbitration claims with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They are seeking more than $1.1 billion in damages after losses in the tax-free bond funds, sold as high-income investments that would preserve their capital, and in the bonds themselves. “It is absurd to suggest we are unable to have a robust financial regulatory presence in Puerto Rico for geographical reasons,” Velázquez added. “Air travel from the mainland and Puerto Rico happens frequently and many investments are now purchased and sold electronically. All this exemption does today is help enrich large financial companies at the expense of vulnerable investors, working people and retirees.” Velázquez’s bill will be introduced in the U.S. House on Friday. It is expected to be referred to the House Committee on Financial Services. Velázquez, the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress, is the third most senior Democratic Member of the Financial Services Committee. # # #
09.24.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led nine of her colleagues from the New York City Congressional delegation in calling on the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) to document how many residents are hired for jobs created through spending on Sandy reconstruction projects. In a letter to NYCHA Chair Shola Olatoye, Velázquez and her colleagues pressed the agency to begin documenting how many NYCHA residents are employed through Sandy spending. In addition to Velázquez (D-NY), the letter is signed by Reps. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY); Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY); Grace Meng (D-NY); Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY); Joseph Crowley (D-NY); Charles Rangel (D-NY); Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); and José E. Serrano (D-NY). The text of the letter is below. September 24, 2015 Ms. Shola Olatoye Chair New York City Housing Authority 250 Broadway New York, New York 10007 Dear Chair Olatoye: As you know, New York City Housing Authority’s (NYCHA) public housing residents were severely impacted by Hurricane Sandy, and NYCHA housing stock required significant repairs and restoration after the storm. Specifically, over 400 of NYCHA’s projects—home to at least 79,000 residents—lost their electricity. The boilers at 26 buildings were destroyed, and Sandy-related flooding exacerbated mold growth and ruined the structural integrity of several buildings. NYCHA estimated at the time that it would cost $800 million to full restore its properties, and completing the necessary rehabilitation will take years and requires hundreds of qualified professionals. Years later, we now know this to have been a conservative estimate of the actual need. On February 20, 2013, members of the New York City congressional delegation wrote to your predecessor, former Chairman Rhea, urging him to ensure that NYCHA aggressively train and hire public housing residents with the portion of the disaster assistance it receives, in part by applying HUD Section 3 standards to both HUD and FEMA assistance provided in the aftermath of the storm. Specifically, the delegation recommended that “NYCHA adopt a clear plan to maximize the use of Superstorm Sandy disaster relief funding for Section 3 programming. The plan should detail the agency’s intended resident outreach efforts, the types of training that the authority will provide, the kinds of jobs available, and the agency’s timeline for hiring residents.” After the storm NYCHA and the City expressed a commitment to ensuring that local residents, including those living in NYCHA housing, benefit from Sandy-related jobs. However, nearly three years later, we still have not received any information and data about the number of actual job and training opportunities provided to NYCHA residents as a result of federal Sandy recovery assistance. This is unacceptable, and raises serious questions about the proposals included in the NextGen NYCHA plan. If NYCHA was unable to track resident job placement in the aftermath of Sandy, NYCHA’s assertion that it will ensure that residents benefit from jobs created by NextGen NYCHA-related construction and rehabilitation activity is called into question. As such, we respectfully request that moving forward, NYCHA submit periodic progress reports on a semi-annual basis, detailing its efforts to hire residents for jobs created by Sandy funds. The reports should include specific data on the number of jobs created and number of residents trained. The report should also detail where and how the final tranche of Sandy recovery funds will be spent – and how NYCHA will ensure that residents benefit from these time-limited job and training opportunities. All data provided in the report should be aggregated by congressional district, at a minimum. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this matter. Sincerely, # # #
09.18.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following remarks regarding H.R. 3134, legislation debated today on the House floor that would defund Planned Parenthood: "Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this brazen assault on women's health, which would harm lower income women around this nation. "The legislation we are debating today would mean that women with limited health options will find it harder to secure lifesaving services-- like breast exams and pap tests. In New York alone, cutting Planned Parenthood funding would mean that nearly 50,000 fewer breast exams would occur. 37,000 women would no longer receive pap tests. Millions of women nationwide would no longer have access to STI screenings and treatments, to say nothing of additional unplanned pregnancies. "These are just some of the critical treatments and procedures Planned Parenthood provides – some of which save women's lives. If you want to proclaim yourself "pro-life" then you should care about women's lives – not focus on depriving them of health care services and contraception. "Today, we have just a few legislative days left before another Republican-fueled government shutdown. We know this misguided bill we are debating is going nowhere. It will not pass the Senate. If it did, the President would veto it. "Yet, House Republicans remain obsessed with attacking Planned Parenthood and reducing women's healthcare options – to the point where they are ready to engender another government shutdown. "We need to reject this legislation so we get back to the serious business of governing. Support women's health care, vote no on the bill. I yield back." # # #
09.14.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led seven other Latino Members of Congress today in calling for the U.S. Department of Treasury to take a more active role in assisting Puerto Rico during the Commonwealth's financial crisis. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Lew, the lawmakers asked that Treasury engage with the Chairs of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees to push for passage of legislation extending Chapter 9 bankruptcy protections to Puerto Rico. "Puerto Rico should be afforded the same Chapter 9 protections that any state can utilize and it is my hope that Treasury joins us in working with Congress toward that commonsense goal," Velázquez said. In addition, the letter calls for Treasury to actively work with creditors of Puerto Rico to achieve an orderly process for resolution of Puerto Rico's debt. "The Department of Treasury was instrumental to helping the auto manufacturers weather tough times and stabilizing Wall Street during the 2008 crisis," Velázquez added. "There's no reason they can't play a similar role here by sitting down with institutions holding large amounts Puerto Rico's debt and encouraging them to develop a reasonable solution, rather than trying to profit from Commonwealth's problems." The letter was also signed by Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY); Tony Cárdenas (D-CA); Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX); Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ); Albio Sires (D-NJ); Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA). The full text of the letter is below. September 14, 2015 The Honorable Jacob Lew Secretary Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express our deep concerns regarding the growing economic crisis in Puerto Rico and to urge the Department of Treasury to take concrete, constructive, and timely steps to help stabilize the situation. As you know, the island has $73 billion in outstanding debt obligations and recently defaulted on a $58 million bond payment. We are concerned this dire situation could quickly escalate, further reducing the island's access to capital markets and leaving investors and institutions with significant losses. To prevent such an economic catastrophe, we recommend that the Department of Treasury move beyond its provision of technical assistance and take a leadership role to bring creditors and debtors to the table to resolve this crisis immediately, as it did in the financial crisis of 2008. We concur with the recent letter sent by Assistant Secretary Anne Wall of the Department of Treasury to Congressional Hispanic Caucus member, Representative Nydia M. Velázquez, asserting that Puerto Rico "needs an orderly process to address its liabilities." In this regard, we strongly support the extension of Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to Puerto Rico, which could alleviate the debt issued by Puerto Rico's insolvent public enterprises. We ask that you meaningfully engage with Chairman Goodlatte of the House Judiciary Committee and Chairman Grassley of the Senate Judiciary Committee to advance this critical legislation (H.R. 870 and S. 1774). At the same time, other mechanisms must be pursued to address the island's remaining outstanding debt. We believe the Department of Treasury is uniquely positioned to promote a fair and efficient outcome. Without such intervention, it is increasingly likely that the situation will resolve itself in a more disorderly and costly manner. As Assistant Secretary Wall further stated in her recent letter, "[u]nder the status quo, without a tested legal regime in place, a resolution of Puerto Rico's financial obligations would likely be chaotic, protracted, and costly both for Puerto Rico and more broadly for the United States." We fully agree with this sentiment and believe that absent such a legal regime, intervention by the Department of Treasury provides the best opportunity for an orderly resolution to the island's non-public utility debt obligations. The world is watching Puerto Rico and we must ensure that the United States does everything within its power to take substantive actions to resolve this crisis. While we appreciate the technical assistance and informal advice the Department of Treasury is providing to the government of Puerto Rico, we believe the time has come to take stronger actions. Alleviation of Puerto Rico's mounting fiscal crisis will require active engagement by the Department of Treasury and congressional approval of the pending Chapter 9 bankruptcy legislation. This is our best hope, not just for Puerto Rico and its 3.5 million American citizens, but for U.S. economic interests on the mainland as well. We look forward to your prompt response on this matter. # # # # # #
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Legislation introduced today by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) would help small and emerging manufacturers access capital to grow their operations, fuel innovation and, ultimately create new, well-paying jobs. The "Scale Up Manufacturing Investment Company Act", H.R. 3468, would create a new initiative at the Small Business Administration (SBA), channeling investment capital to small manufacturing firms. "Small manufacturers face unique challenges in commercializing their products and developing systems to mass produce them," Velázquez said. "This legislation would create a new option for small companies that are seeking capital to scale up their operations." Under the legislation, up to $1 billion a year would be made available by the SBA to private investment companies. Pairing this leverage with private capital, these firms would, in turn, invest in small manufacturers, helping them get through critical, early growth stages of the business cycle, expand their operations and, ultimately, hire more American workers. "Expanding the manufacturing sector is one of the most effective ways to keep good jobs here, in the United States," Velázquez noted. "We are seeing a manufacturing renaissance in this country and, for the long term health of our broader economy, we must continue promoting this trend." A companion measure to the legislation is being sponsored in the Senate by Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ). "Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and a tremendous engine for innovation and job growth," Sen. Booker said. "But small manufacturing firms often struggle to find the capital to finance expansion plans and develop and implement new technologies. To remain competitive and keep innovative technologies and capabilities in the U.S., the federal government can more effectively partner with the private sector to increase access to capital for all entrepreneurs in the advanced manufacturing sector through this legislation." Because of their capital intensive needs and use of new technology, small manufacturers frequently encounter what economists call a "valley of death", a period in their early growth when it is difficult move past the nascent startup phase and enter mass production. For a small manufacturer, a capital infusion at this stage can make the difference between going under or growing into a new venture that creates new jobs. "I've seen firsthand in Brooklyn and New York how small manufacturers can create job opportunities and revitalize a neighborhood economy," Velázquez added. "This legislation will build on that success, helping harness American ingenuity to fuel job growth." The legislation has been referred to the House Committee on Small Business, of which Velázquez is the top Democrat. It is cosponsored by eleven other House Members. # # #
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled legislation to provide public housing residents with training and certification needed to secure new jobs. The bill would help residents of public housing agencies, such as the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), to receive training in home healthcare and then assist them in securing employment with elderly or disabled individuals. “This proposal meets the needs of our community in two ways,” Velázquez noted. “By training our neighbors in a high growth field, this legislation will create local economic opportunity and, simultaneously, it will help meet a burgeoning need for compassionate, skilled home healthcare workers.” The “Together We Care Act”, H.R. 3467, establishes a three-year federal pilot training program specializing in home healthcare services. Public housing residents will be given the opportunity to receive home healthcare services training from organizations certified by the state. Following certification, the newly trained aides would be matched with elderly or disabled individuals who are Medicaid-eligible. The legislation would provide the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with $5 million per year to support the effort. Agencies like the New York City Housing Authority would be eligible to apply for grants to utilize locally. “Home care is a profession that will be in high demand for years to come and this legislation will offer hard-working public housing residents with the tools they need to enter this field,” Velázquez added. Due to demographic trends, the home healthcare profession is expected to grow rapidly. By 2030, one in five Americans will be age 65 or older, yet the number of family members available to provide care will only increase by 25 percent. To help seniors remain in comfortable, non-institutionalized settings, home care workers will be needed. Personal Care Aides and Home Health Aides are projected to be the fastest-growing occupations in the country between 2010 and 2020, increasing by 71 percent and 69 percent, respectively. In addition to helping older Americans live independently, home care is a cost-effective option for providing assistance to seniors. The expense of nursing home care is more than double that of providing home care for an individual. “Without a sufficient workforce of home healthcare providers, many elderly individuals will need to enter expensive nursing homes, straining family and government budgets and placing seniors in a new, sometimes disorienting environment,” Velázquez noted. “By empowering public housing residents to work as caregivers in their local community, the legislation will help keep families together and strengthen bonds between neighbors.” The “Together We Care Act” will be introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives. It has been endorsed by a wide range of advocacy groups including: NYCHA; B’nai B’rith, Community Service Society of New York; Corporation for Supportive Housing; Enterprise Community Partners; Fifth Avenue Committee; Good Old Lower East Side; Leading Age; Legal Aid Society of New York; Local Initiatives Support Corporation; National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; National Alliance to End Homelessness; National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty; National Low Income Housing Coalition; NYU Lutheran Family Health Centers; the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities and the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute. “Our strained long-term care system faces a number of issues including a workforce shortage, and seniors who need care in their homes where they prefer to age,” said Larry Minnix, President and CEO of LeadingAge. “As our elder struggle to remain in their communities this bill will go a long way towards a major challenge for residents. Congresswoman Velázquez is to be commended for her leadership on this important legislation.” # # #
08.31.2015	Washington, DC –Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today announcing that she would vote in favor of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran’s nuclear program: “In analyzing this agreement, my fundamental and primary concern was ensuring we stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. An Iran with a nuclear bomb would present an existential threat to Israel, be a destabilizing game changer for the entire region and directly threaten and undermine U.S. security interests. It is a scenario that the world absolutely must avoid. After careful reflection, I have concluded that the JCPOA is our best option for preventing Iran from acquiring the materials needed to develop a nuclear bomb. “It has been estimated that before an interim agreement was reached in 2013, Iran was only one month away from securing enough material for a nuclear weapon. That stopgap measure pushed back that period by 2 to 3 months. Today, Iran is once again on the brink of developing a nuclear weapon. “Given this reality, inaction at this stage is simply unacceptable. If Congress were to reject the JCPOA, there is a high probability that our partners in developing this agreement would resume doing business with Iran, freeing up financial resources that Iran was previously denied due to sanctions aimed at thwarting its nuclear program. It is also possible that Iran might simply choose to walk away from the agreement altogether and continue developing weapons grade plutonium and uranium, thereby prompting American military intervention. “A U.S. strike on Iran would be costly, causing significant loss of American life, likely lead to attacks and loss of life in Israel, yet would only postpone Iran’s nuclear weapons development by a few years. Clearly, a strong, enforceable diplomatic solution is far superior. “I recognize that critics of this agreement hold deep concerns about how it is constructed and in particular its enforceability. It is important to recognize that the monitoring and inspection provisions are more thorough and intrusive than in any previous agreement. Most importantly, they will prevent Iran from producing fissionable material without the United States and the world community knowing about it. “I know many involved in this debate have also suggested that this agreement would not permanently resolve this issue and that, in the long term, there remains a threat that Iran will acquire weapons grade nuclear material. While that is true, this agreement remains, in my view, our best chance of thwarting the very real and immediate threat of Iran developing this capability in the next few months. “There has been significant debate in Washington and in New York about this agreement and I have heard from constituents on all sides of the issue. I certainly understand and respect the opinions of those who do not support the agreement. However, after several months of deliberation, it is my deeply held belief that the JCPOA is the best option we have for preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon in the near term. I will support the agreement when it comes before the House for a vote.” # # #
07.22.2015	Washington, DC – An important Small Business Administration (SBA) lending program is likely to meet its statutory lending cap in the next few weeks, meaning American entrepreneurs seeking capital to grow their operations will be turned away, costing the U.S. economy significant job growth. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the Ranking Democrat of the House Committee on Small Business, introduced legislation (H.R. 3132) today that would raise the cap, allowing the initiative to continue functioning and helping meet small firms’ financing needs. “Small businesses are the economic engine of our nation, but they require capital to create jobs and fuel commerce,” Velázquez said. “Shutting down or disrupting one of the most important small business financing mechanisms we have at our disposal would be irresponsible and do great harm to our economy.” The SBA program, referred to as 7(a), guarantees loans made by banks to small businesses. Due to a strengthening economy, more small businesses are seeking SBA credit in 2015. Through July, loan volume is up 20 percent over last year. Agency data suggests the program could approve over 60,000 loans for $21.5 billion. However, the lending cap set in law for Fiscal Year 2015 is $18.75 billion. As a result, it is likely the SBA will run out of loan-making ability as early as July 28th, based on current lending volume. “It would be inexcusable for Congress to leave out in the cold small firms looking to build a new facility or purchase equipment,” Velázquez noted. “This initiative creates jobs, fuels growth and does not cost the taxpayer a cent. It would be nothing short of legislative malpractice to not extend it through the summer.” Velázquez’s bill, being introduced today, would raise the cap to $23.5 billion, allowing the initiative to continue functioning until the cap can be addressed again when Congress passes legislation for the start of the new Fiscal Year. Absent action, the agency would have to tell businesses to wait for capital and face a backlog when the cap is addressed in the fall. Estimates suggest shutting the program down, even temporarily, could cost the economy more than 36,000 jobs over just a two-month period. “If this program goes away, many Main Street businesses will encounter another credit crunch,” Velázquez noted. “That means fewer businesses will hire or purchase goods and services from their vendors, causing real ripple effects across the economy. I call on my colleagues to work together and pass this legislation immediately.” The legislation is supported by the Small Business Administration and the Office of Management and Budget. It is cosponsored by all Democratic Members of the House Small Business Committee. # # #
07.13.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to improve the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster lending initiative. Among other changes, the bill, H.R. 208, “The Superstorm Sandy Relief Act” would give firms impacted by Hurricane Sandy the opportunity to reapply for a disaster loan from the agency. “After Sandy, many New York City businesses encountered enormous delays and red tape when trying to secure emergency loans from SBA,” Velázquez noted. “My bill would give New York businesses another chance to apply for assistance and will ensure SBA does a better job helping small firms after future catastrophes.” After Hurricane Sandy, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the SBA’s Inspector General and the Democratic side of the Small Business Committee produced analyses finding severe shortcomings in the SBA’s loan approval process. Among other problems, business owners had to wait on average 46 days for emergency loans to be approved. “For a small business owner struggling to keep their doors open after a Hurricane or flood, waiting a month and a half for assistance is not an option,” Velázquez added. “These delays can make the difference between whether a business stays open or closes, costing our community badly needed jobs.” Beyond reopening the loan application process, Velázquez’s measure would make a number of other changes to streamline SBA’s disaster response functions and enhance transparency. The agency would be required to report to Congress on its loan processing times and approval rates. It would also revise its disaster plan so adequate resources and staff are in place during future catastrophes. In addition, the measure would improve the SBA’s program that provides emergency loans to homeowners after disasters. “When a hurricane, tornado, or earthquake strikes, businesses owners’ and homeowners’ lives are literally turned upside down,” Velázquez concluded. “It is my hope that the legislation before us creates a more responsive SBA – one that is able to rise to the challenge when the next disaster strikes.” The legislation passed the House on a bipartisan basis. It must now be considered by the U.S. Senate. # # # # # #
07.08.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks today at a hearing of the House Small Business Committee, titled, "The Calm Before the Storm: Oversight of SBA's Disaster Loan Program": "Natural disasters profoundly disrupt our lives and affect tens of thousands of households every year. These unanticipated events leave families and small businesses facing significant costs when rebuilding. "Typically, insurance covers monetary losses, but that's not always the case. Recognizing the gap in the market, Congress created SBA's low-interest disaster loan program in 1953. Over the past 62 years, SBA has responded to thousands of natural disasters, including several major storms. One of the worst was Superstorm Sandy in 2012. "When Sandy made landfall, the impact was particularly severe in New York City. The storm destroyed infrastructure, inundated thousands of homes with floodwater, and disrupted our vibrant small business community. "For small business in particular, the first few weeks following a natural disaster are a critical period. It is estimated that 40 percent of impacted businesses fail to fully recover. One major reason is the lack of capital to rebuild. As such, it is critical SBA process and disburse disaster loans quickly to maximize the likelihood small businesses will survive. "Unfortunately, soon after Sandy struck it became clear SBA's response was lacking. As processing delays mounted, the deficiencies in SBA's management of the disaster loan program demanded a closer look from Congress. "In early 2013, Committee Democrats released a report on the application backlog and processing delays. We found small businesses waited 46 days to get their application processed by SBA, a three-fold increase over previous Atlantic storms. To make matters worse, SBA had already been heavily criticized for its slow response to Hurricane Katrina and made commitments to process applications in 21 days. To build on those findings and fully understand the causes of the delays experienced by Sandy victims, I requested the GAO report we are focusing on today. "GAO identified a number of reasons for the problems at SBA, including failing to quickly staff-up, underestimating the number of electronic submissions, and failing to implement private disaster loan programs signed into law 4 years prior. "In 2008, bipartisan reforms were enacted to help the Agency respond to large disasters by bringing in the private sector to meet loan demand. These included the Immediate Disaster Assistance Program, the Private Disaster Loan Program, and the Expedited Disaster Assistance Loan Program. "It is likely one or more of these programs, if implemented before Sandy made landfall, could have injected much-needed capital into the community immediately after the storm. These private loan programs could have also helped free up SBA resources by handling the small-dollar loan volume. "SBA provided GAO with a number of reasons for its failure to timely process disaster loans following Superstorm Sandy, however, they were all self-created. "Clearly, significant changes need to be made in SBA's administration of the disaster loan program. It is unacceptable that Sandy victims had to wait 46 days or longer to get vital funding to rebuild their businesses. "I look forward to hearing from today's witnesses on the findings and recommendations contained in GAO's report. Thank you and I yield back." # # #
07.06.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote the following letter to the President today regarding Puerto Rico’s debt crisis: July 6, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States Dear Mr. President: I am writing you with great urgency regarding the financial crisis in Puerto Rico. As you are aware, the Commonwealth is $73 billion in debt and its Governor has recently stated that these debts are “unpayable.” Given the potential for this situation to rapidly deteriorate further, I am requesting that you convene an emergency meeting of the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets to address this matter and bring all parties to the table to negotiate an orderly resolution. This situation is unprecedented and therefore requires an unprecedented approach. Public utilities in Puerto Rico cannot resolve their debts through Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as public utilities located in U.S. states are able to do. As a territory of the U.S., it is not a sovereign nation, which bars it from seeking assistance through the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Such a reality means that the island is in an exceptionally rare predicament – one in which conventional legal options are not an option, nor are more traditional lines of international aid. As a result, there is great potential that the situation will resolve itself in a manner that is more disorderly and costly that it otherwise would be. It is the unfortunate reality that those least able to represent themselves in what will certainly be a long and arduous resolution process will suffer the most. Given that 53 percent of U.S. municipal mutual funds hold Puerto Rico’s bonds, it likely that those most affected will be individual American investors, including many senior citizens who depend on such funds for regular income. In addition, U.S. entities, many of which are household names, including mutual funds, commercial banks, and hedge funds have sizeable holdings of Puerto Rico’s debt. Two such mutual funds together hold $6.8 billion – or nearly 10 percent – of the island’s municipal obligations. Bond insurers, which guarantee $14 billion of Puerto Rico bonds, also stand to be impacted. A disorderly default and resulting protracted legal battle could lead to further losses for many of these individuals and corporations, potentially leading to concerns regarding financial contagion. For these reasons, it is in the interest of the United States to ensure an orderly resolution to this crisis. While the technical assistance that your administration has provided Puerto Rico has been useful, it is time to move beyond such limited measures. Absent the availability of Chapter 9, however, the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets presents the best option to produce an organized and fair outcome for those involved. Bringing all parties – creditors and debtors alike to the table, as only the White House can do, is our best hope, not just for Puerto Rico, but U.S. interests as well. Thank you for your attention and leadership on this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
06.29.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement regarding the Puerto Rico fiscal crisis: "Since taking office, Governor García Padilla has worked tirelessly to address the Commonwealth's fiscal crisis – focusing on its immediate needs as well as its deep-seated roots. "I join Governor García Padilla in calling on all stakeholders—including both political parties in Puerto Rico, Congress, and the Obama Administration—to come together to develop a long-term plan that addresses the root causes of this crisis. That starts with passing Chapter 9 and restoring funding to the healthcare system. Puerto Rican families deserve a fair shot, and we must cut through Washington's gridlock to create a comprehensive solution." # # #
06.26.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling on same-sex marriage: “Today’s ruling is a monumental step forward not only for the LGBTQ community, but for all Americans. The Court has unequivocally recognized the constitutional right of Americans to marry the person they love regardless of sexual orientation. “This decision constitutes an important milestone in our ongoing march toward a more perfect union. Now, we must all continue working together to end other types of discrimination and advance equality.” # # #
06.24.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on a hearing being held in the U.S. House Subcommittee on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs titled “Examining procedures regarding Puerto Rico’s political status and economic outlook.” The Congresswoman noted that by focusing on the issue of Puerto Rico’s political status, the hearing would likely fail to make progress in addressing significant economic, health and environmental issues facing the island. “With mounting debt and a weakened economy, Puerto Rico is facing some of its most challenging circumstances in recent memory, yet this hearing will do little to tackle those problems,” Velázquez noted. “Convening a hearing to talk about the island’s political status will not address shortfalls in Medicare and Medicaid, help alleviate the country’s debt problems or ameliorate the environmental problems left behind by the U.S. military.” The hearing scheduled for Wednesday purports to examine how potential changes in the Commonwealth’s political status might impact Puerto Rico’s overall economy. However, most observers agree that changing the island’s status issue is not feasible until the Commonwealth’s debt problem is resolved. Velázquez added that the hearing constitutes a continuation of Congress’ failure to meaningfully address real problems affecting residents of Puerto Rico. “The U.S. government has a long history of failing to meet its responsibilities when it comes to Puerto Rico,” Velázquez noted. “Most recently, the federal government has not taken necessary steps to assist the Commonwealth during its mounting financial crisis. This unequal treatment of U.S. citizens who pay the same Medicare and Social Security taxes has now left the island to endure unconscionable cuts that threaten access to basic health care services. Access to quality health care is a right, not a privilege.” In addition to failing to address impending cuts in entitlement programs and the island’s rising debt levels, Velázquez said too little effort has been paid to addressing serious environmental legacy problems stemming from U.S. military exercises in Puerto Rico. “There has been a decades-long pattern of delay and inaction when it comes to remediating the environmental problems of Vieques and Culebra that were left behind by the United States Navy,” she noted. “The public health problems caused by pollution at these sites cannot be ignored and the U.S. must move aggressively toward cleaning up these areas.” Velázquez concluded by calling for a full discussion of the substantive policy issues afflicting Puerto Rico. “I do not see how an oversight hearing on political status will help address Puerto Rico’s looming problems,” she concluded. “The challenges facing the residents of Puerto Rico and all Puerto Ricans living throughout the states demand serious answers. We should be seeing solutions debated in Committees with jurisdiction over Medicare, Medicaid and the Superfund program. Instead, Wednesday’s hearing in the Natural Resources Committee amounts to an unfortunate sideshow that will distract from truly pressing problems requiring Congressional attention.” # # #
06.24.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's ruling upholding the Affordable Care Act: "Today's ruling is a landmark victory for the 10 million Americans and nearly half a million New York City residents who have secured coverage through the Affordable Care Act. The Court has essentially reaffirmed the right of Americans, regardless of where they live, to access affordable, quality healthcare, keeping in place core principles that make this law work. "Now, that the Court has twice ruled that this law is constitutional, it is time for Republican to cease their attacks on it and for all of us to work together to build on the Act, strengthen it and further expand access to healthcare." # # #
06.18.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks today on the House floor in opposition to "Fast Track" trade legislation: "Mr. Speaker, once again we are being asked to vote for an agreement that will cost jobs, undermine environmental protections and erode workers' rights -- all in the name of so-called "Free Trade." "This agreement is being negotiated in the dark, behind closed doors. That secretive process may benefit large, multinational companies and their lobbyists, but it does not help small manufacturers in Brooklyn. It does nothing for New Yorkers struggling to raise a family while keeping their jobs from being exported. "When there's a bad process, we end up with a bad deal for American workers and we've seen that in the past. New York lost 374,000 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and the World Trade Organization agreements. "This vote comes down to a simple question – are you going to side with Wall Street, large corporations and their lobbyists? Or will you stand with working families in your district? I'll take the latter. Vote NO. I yield back." # # #
06.17.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today released the following statement regarding a photograph that ran in the New York Daily News’ coverage of the Puerto Rican Day Parade, which showed exposed women with the headline “Rear View on Parade”: “The New York Daily News owes a sincere apology to New York’s Puerto Rican community for this offensive coverage, which misrepresented and mischaracterized the parade. “This year’s event was among the most substantive in recent memory with a focus on meaningful issues like Medicare cuts in Puerto Rico, the need to free Oscar Lopez and strategies to remediate the Superfund site El Caño Martín Peña. Rather than cover these important matters, the Daily News chose to instead dredge up salacious photographs of individuals who were not even on the parade route. “The Puerto Rico Day Parade is a unique celebration of the history and contributions of the 720,000 Puerto Ricans living in New York City and the five million Puerto Ricans residing throughout the United States. Rather than joining all of us in celebrating our rich heritage, the Daily News chose a cheap, vulgar approach that was inappropriate and offensive. It should apologize to our community and to all of its readers.” # # #
06.12.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following remarks today in opposition to legislation that would authorize “Fast Track” consideration of the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement: “Time and again, we are promised that trade deals enacted through ‘Fast Track’ will create opportunity. And, time and again we have seen what bad trade agreements actually produce. After NAFTA, 700,000 American jobs were displaced. In total, ‘Fast Track’ trade policies have cost the U.S. more than 1 million jobs and contributed to 60,000 factories closing. New York manufacturers lost 374,000 jobs since adoption of NAFTA and the World Trade Organization agreements. “Why would we expect the Trans Pacific Partnership to be any different? If that deal is approved, estimates show the U.S. losing more than 130,000 jobs to just two of the 12 TPP members – Japan and Vietnam. Nine of the countries in the TPP have wage levels much lower than ours, so we can expect U.S. wages to stagnate as well. “Poorly negotiated trade deals are also bad for small businesses and small manufacturers. New York already ran a $47 billion trade deficit last year and TPP would make the situation worse. Certainly, fair trade can help small companies enter new markets and sell products abroad. However, if agreements are not constructed openly and fairly, small businesses will be undercut by a flood of foreign made products that are manufactured in countries with lower wages and fewer labor protections. Unlike the big multinational companies, small businesses did not have a seat at the table in negotiating TPP, which is just another reason we should reject Fast Track. “The TPP agreement has been negotiated in secret, with input from big corporations, but out of sight of the American people. Now, we are being asked to approve a measure that would help ram the TPP through Congress. When I am home in New York, I don’t hear people telling me we need to rush into another trade deal. The only people pushing ‘Fast Track’ are lobbyists working for big corporations. Well, that’s not who I represent. Instead, I’ll stand with the New York working families who oppose Fast Track. I will vote no on this bill.” # # #
06.10.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Small Business today approved legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) to reform the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster lending initiative. Among other changes, the bill, H.R. 208, “The Superstorm Sandy Relief Act” would give firms impacted by Hurricane Sandy the opportunity to reapply for a disaster loan from the agency. “The SBA’s response to Hurricane Sandy was woefully inadequate, leaving many small business owners out in the cold,” Velázquez noted. “This legislation gives businesses in New York another chance to apply for help and will ensure SBA is not caught flatfooted after future catastrophes.” Following Hurricane Sandy, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the SBA’s Inspector General and the Democratic side of the Small Business Committee produced analyses finding severe shortcomings in the SBA’s loan approval process. Among other problems, business owners had to wait on average 46 days for emergency loans to be approved. This amounted to a three-fold increase over previous processing times following other hurricanes. “For a small business owner whose inventory is flooded or whose property is damaged in a storm, waiting a month and a half for SBA to sort through its own red tape is simply not an option,” Velázquez added. “Delays like these can make the difference between whether a business continues operating or has to shut its doors.” Beyond reopening the loan application process, Velázquez’s measure would make a number of other changes to streamline SBA’s disaster response functions and enhance transparency. The SBA would be required to report to Congress on its loan processing times and approval rates. It would also revise its disaster plan so adequate resources and staff are in place during future catastrophes. In addition, the measure would significantly improve the SBA’s program that provides emergency loans to homeowners after disasters. “When a hurricane, tornado, or earthquake strikes, businesses owners’ and homeowners’ lives are literally turned upside down,” Velázquez concluded. “It is my hope that the legislation before us creates a more responsive SBA – one that is able to rise to the challenge when the next disaster strikes.” The legislation passed the Committee on a bipartisan basis. It must now be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
05.29.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today called on President Obama to release Oscar Lopez Rivera, a Puerto Rican nationalist who has been imprisoned for 34 years. On Saturday, thousands of supporters plan to rally in New York, demanding that the Department of Justice grant Lopez clemency and release him immediately. "Oscar long ago paid his debt to society. He is not a terrorist and he didn't harm anyone," Velázquez said. "After 34 years, it is long past the time to release Oscar and allow him to return to his home, his family and community." In 1981, Lopez Rivera was convicted of "seditious conspiracy" and sentenced to 55 years in federal prison for seditious conspiracy. In 1988 his sentence was lengthened by an additional 15 years. His continued imprisonment has been opposed by a wide range of political, social, religious and advocacy groups. "Oscar has led a life of service to others and demonstrated an unwavering commitment to equality, reconciliation and human dignity," Velázquez added. "He is a gentle soul, a man with an immense love toward his family and his beloved Puerto Rico. He is a man who was even decorated for his service to the United States in the Vietnam War." On Saturday, thousands are expected to rally and march in New York City as part of "A Day for Oscar Lopez Rivera," calling for his release. The event begins at West 125th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Blvd. Velázquez is scheduled to address the event. "President Obama has the power to reverse a grave injustice," Velázquez noted. "By speaking with one voice, we can send a clear message to the White House that it is time do what is right – free Oscar Lopez Rivera, immediately." # # #
05.26.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 28th at 7:00 p.m., Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) will host a public community meeting on changes to the National Flood Insurance Program. The discussion will focus on new preliminary flood insurance rate maps recently released by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Velázquez will be joined at the event by representatives from FEMA, the Mayor's office, other community groups and elected officials. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez FEMA New York City Mayor's Office of Recovery and Resiliency Center for NYC Neighborhoods and Neighborhood Housing Services State Senator Velmanette Montgomery Assistant Speaker Felix Ortiz Assemblywoman Jo Anne Simon City Council Members Brad Lander, Stephen Levin and Carlos Menchaca WHAT: Community Meeting on Flood Insurance WHEN: Thursday, May 28th at 7:00 p.m. WHERE: 41 1st Street – Mary Star of the Sea Senior Apartments Community Room (Between Hoyt and Bond Streets) Brooklyn, NY 11231 ** MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND THE EVENT ** # # #
05.26.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today wrote the Department of Labor regarding wage abuses in the nail salon industry. The text of the letter is below. Administrator David Weil Wage and Hour Division U.S. Department of Labor Frances Perkins Building 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Administrator Weil: I am writing you in regard to recent wage abuses uncovered in the nail salon industry in New York City and surrounding areas. These allegations, as reported by the New York Times on May 7, 2015, demonstrate clear violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). As a result, I request that the Department of Labor examine these allegations and impose remedies to ensure that workers in this industry are paid according to applicable federal law. Several compensation practices are particularly concerning and are depriving manicurists and associated workers from fair pay under the FLSA. As “tipped workers,” these employees are entitled to supplemental wages if “tips” do not equal or exceed the minimum wage. Evidence suggests that employers have systemically failed to pay such supplemental wages as required under the FLSA. This has led to cases in which workers are being paid as little as $3 per hour, well below the federal minimum wage. In addition, it is apparent that workers in this industry are regularly working more than 40 hours per week and not being remunerated at federally-required overtime rates. In such instances, workers should be paid at a rate equal to at least 150 percent of minimum wage. Reports indicate that failure to pay overtime is a widespread practice among employers in the nail salon industry. Such occurrences indicate yet another violation of the FLSA. Taken together, these allegations present a troubling pattern of wage and compensation abuses in an industry dominated largely by immigrant workers. Such workers often face language barriers and a lack of knowledge about their legal rights, making them more easily exploited by unscrupulous employers. For these reasons, I am requesting that you take immediate action to examine these claims and assist these workers in receiving fair pay under the FLSA. Thank you for your attention to this matter and for your efforts on behalf of American’s workers. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Thomas Perez, United State Secretary of Labor # # # # # #
05.05.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement marking Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month: “This month provides an important opportunity to celebrate the myriad ways Asian Americans have helped strengthen our society. Whether it is Manhattan’s Chinatown, Brooklyn’s Sunset Park or a rapidly growing number of other areas throughout all five boroughs, New York has been especially influenced by its Asian residents. Through their music, food, entrepreneurial spirit and countless other cultural contributions, New York’s Asian residents are an integral part of our City’s identity. “In coming years, we can expect Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to continue contributing to our country’s achievements and adding to the cultural tapestry of all our communities. This month, we should all take time to honor their commitment and sacrifices to our nation.” # # #
05.05.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, May 6th at 6:00 p.m.,Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) will host a workshop to help small businesses access capital. Velázquez will be joined at the event by a range of community groups and small business lenders who can offer insight on programs available to assist New York firms seeking financing. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation Local Development Corporation of East New York CityTech College Small Business Development Center U.S. Small Business Administration NYC Small Business Services-Division of Business Acceleration Other Local Organizations. WHAT: Small Business Opportunity Workshop WHEN: Wednesday, May 6th at 6:00 p.m. WHERE: Cypress Hill Fulton Street Senior Citizens Center3208 Fulton Street (Between Logan and Richmond Streets) # # #
04.06.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regarding Superstorm Sandy and the National Flood Insurance Program. Below is the text of the letter: April 6, 2015 Craig Fugate Administrator FEMA Washington, DC 20500 Dear Administrator Fugate: Hurricane Sandy caused extensive physical destruction in several regions, leaving many with significant rebuilding costs. It is critical that the federal government’s core disaster-related and assistance programs operate efficiently and are well-coordinated. I appreciate that, in response to mounting evidence that Write Your Own (WYO) insurance companies in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) actively defrauded Superstorm Sandy victims to reduce claims payouts, FEMA has announced a number of corrective actions for the program including a review of all 144,000 claims that were filed under the NFIP as a result of Sandy. Ensuring homeowners receive the assistance they need is critical to the long term recovery of this region. We owe it to them to get it right. I know that America’s homeowners can count on your administration to stand by them and oversee a review process that is transparent and fair. In that regard, I would request that this review process include the following: Strong mechanisms to ensure fairness; An advocate or ombudsman for claimants to work with in securing fair compensation for their losses; and A method for ensuring settlements take into account the actual higher materials costs in the New York-New Jersey market area I thank you for your leadership in the response to this disaster. If you have any questions or would like to discuss these matters further, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Ranking Member, Committee on Small Business cc: Jeh Johnson, Secretary, Department of Homeland Security # # #
03.23.2015	Washington, DC – At a City Hall press conference today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released a report detailing how House Republicans’ budget would impact New York City. Being voted on this week, the budget outlines spending priorities for the next 10 years. Velázquez’s report found that the document would slash funding for New York City by $13.4 billion, reducing services and impacting a wide range of programs that affect housing, transportation, healthcare and education. "Budgets are about priorities and this measure has its priorities wrong,” Velázquez said. “By cutting valuable health, education and social service programs, this budget would weaken our communities and make life harder for the average New Yorker.” Velázquez was joined at today’s event by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). “The House GOP budget takes dead aim at New York City in a manner that would cripple the ability of working families, middle class New Yorkers and senior citizens to robustly pursue the American dream,” said Rep. Jeffries. “We continue to try and move the country forward, but this budget would turn back the clock. It is a reckless and regressive approach to addressing our country’s fiscal challenges that must be swiftly and completely rejected.” Many programs that uniquely impact New York City would see funding reduced under the Republican budget. Public transportation resources would be slashed with the city receiving $1 billion less in transit formula grants and another $1.3 billion being taken from initiatives funding investments and repair. Likewise, programs that expand affordable housing availability would also be undermined, with 75,000 fewer New Yorkers receiving Section 8 vouchers under the Housing Choice Voucher program. “From transportation to housing, this budget would deprive our city of important investments that make our neighborhoods more livable for working families,” Velázquez noted. “Under this budget, New Yorkers could expect to pay higher transit fares and more in rent, with less funding for upgrades and repairs.” As a cultural and financial epicenter, New York faces unique security threats. Unfortunately, initiatives that help protect the City would also be shortchanged under the Republican proposal. Funds for New York City port, rail and transit security would decline by $46 million, while there would be $12 million less available for local detection of nuclear and radiological threats. “Just as New Yorkers financial security would be harmed by this budget, so too would our City’s physical safety,” Velázquez noted. The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote on the Republican budget later this week. In addition to Velázquez and Jeffries, representatives from local nonprofits spoke at today’s event, describing how the cuts would undermine their ability to serve the community. The full report may be downloaded here. # # #
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez made the following remarks today regarding the need to pass a “clean” funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. House Republicans have been holding up such a measure in an attempt to pass legislation that would block President Obama’s Executive Actions on immigration. “Mr. Speaker, when we come to Congress all of us take an oath to protect our nation, our homeland. Today, we risk undermining that solemn promise due to partisan objections to the President’s immigration actions. Even if my colleagues disagree with the President’s immigration actions, the answer is not to hold hostage funding for homeland security. “Senate Republicans recognize this. The Senate voted 98 to 2 yesterday to begin consideration of a clean funding bill. Yet, the House continues dawdling as we lurch toward a homeland security shutdown. “This is unacceptable. Whether it is training first responders, building new firehouses or paying TSA screeners, some things should be above politics. We cannot afford to suspend funding for our Homeland Security. “The time for political games is over. The House Republican Leadership should move a clean Homeland Security funding bill – like that being considered in the Senate -- immediately. I yield back.” # # #
02.20.2015	Washington, DC – With President Obama having recently announced historic changes to U.S. policy towards Cuba, a group of House Democrats are traveling to the island nation this week. In December, President Obama announced resumption of diplomatic relations with Cuba, plans to re-establish an embassy in Havana and a loosening of travel restrictions between the two countries. Other steps would expand U.S. exports to Cuba, giving Cubans greater access to lower cost goods. Permitting telecommunications companies to grow their presence in Cuba would expand Internet access throughout the country, providing additional information sources for the Cuban people. The Congressional delegation that arrived Tuesday is the first official visit by a House delegation since the President's policy changes were announced. The group is being led by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and includes nine Democratic House Members. In an effort to broaden understanding of the current situation on the ground, members of the delegation will meet with Cuban government officials, Cardinal Jaime Ortega y Alamino, local community leaders and representatives, and American officials at the U.S. Interests Section. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) is part of the delegation and said she hopes the visit will build on the President's December announcement. "Normalizing relations with Cuba will help end a backwards, ineffective policy that has failed to improve the lives of the Cuban people," said Velázquez. "The President's announcement was a long overdue step and it is my hope it will help building understanding between our nations, while creating opportunity for the Cuban people." Since coming to Congress in 1992, Velázquez has long advocated normalizing relations with Cuba, cosponsoring legislation that would reverse the longstanding U.S. policy aimed at isolating the country. # # #
02.19.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the start of the Lunar New Year: “For so many New Yorkers, the Lunar New Year is an important holiday, when friends and family gather to pay respect to elders, honor tradition and give thanks for blessings in our lives. The festivals, parades and celebrations throughout New York City, and especially in Chinatown, add to the cultural vibrancy of our community and I am proud of how they enrich our City. For all those observing the Lunar New Year, I wish happiness and prosperity for the Year of the Ram.” # # #
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget: “The President’s Budget proposal would make historic investments assisting working families. By expanding child tax credits, supporting Pre-K education and building on Head Start, the measure would give a boost to young parents struggling to get ahead. “For workers looking to broaden their skills, the budget makes important investments in higher education and job training, helping our nation’s businesses by preparing more workers for careers in high-demand sectors. Likewise, by reinvesting in our nation’s infrastructure, the budget would help ensure we have the roads, bridges and ports for long term economic prosperity, while creating job growth in the short term. “Budgets are about choices, and ultimately, the President’s budget makes choices that would benefit low-income and middle-income New Yorkers. I believe this is the best path for rebuilding our economy over the long term. It is my hope these ideas can be further fleshed out as the Congressional budget process moves forward.” # # #
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – As President Obama laid out his agenda Tuesday night for ensuring the middle class benefits from the nation's rebounding economy, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) introduced legislation aimed at helping working families secure affordable housing, one of the fastest growing costs in major urban areas. Through tax code changes and federal grants, her legislation, H.R. 480, the "Housing America's Workforce Act," would create new opportunities for employers to help their staff with rent and the cost of purchasing a new home. "The President made a compelling case Tuesday night for a series of commonsense steps that could help middle class families get ahead," Velázquez said. "Addressing rising housing costs should be part of this vision and my bill would make it easier for working families to afford rent or purchase a new home." Velázquez's measure would build on innovative private and public initiatives that have demonstrated success in tackling housing shortages. Under her proposal, employers could qualify for a 50% tax credit when helping employees with rent and homeownership assistance. For small firms, the credit would be as much as 100% of the outlay. Additionally, this assistance would not be included in employees' gross income, helping lower tax bills for low-income and middle-income workers. The measure also authorizes grants for local government and nonprofit housing groups that seek to promote the growth of employer-assisted housing programs. "Employee-assisted housing programs have a strong track record of increasing affordable housing options for working families, while benefitting the economy and strengthening local communities," Velázquez noted. "The biggest hurdle for many homebuyers is saving enough for a down payment and my bill will make this easier for them by incentivizing employer assistance. Also under this bill, we can encourage businesses of all sizes to consider housing assistance as a way of compensating their employees, especially in major cities where there has been job growth, but the housing market remains tight." Rents throughout the country, but especially in major urban areas like New York, have escalated in recent years. Between 2000 and 2014, median apartment rents in New York City increased 75%, while real incomes declined by 5% on average. Compared to the other 60 largest cities in the United States, New York also has the lowest rate of homeownership. Across all five boroughs, home prices increased by almost 10% between 2012 and 2013. "Workers in New York face unique challenges finding suitable housing for themselves and their families," Velázquez stated. "By harnessing innovative solutions in the private sector we can help alleviate this problem, while encouraging business growth and helping small companies attract and retain high-quality employees." # # #
01.20.2015	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President's State of the Union Address: "The President challenged us tonight to answer a basic question: as our economy strengthens, should the benefits of this growth reach all Americans or flow only to the most affluent, well off and powerful? "Democrats believe that the returns on our newfound prosperity should create opportunity for all Americans and tonight the President laid out concrete proposals for achieving that objective. New Yorkers understand that striving for economic justice strengthens our economy as a whole. That is why we worked to raise our City's minimum wage and guarantee all workers paid sick time. That is why our City has pushed for universal Pre-K and expanded childcare. Issues like these are critical for all Americans, but especially important to working women. Tonight, the President made clear he supports expanding these protections nationally. I applaud his commitment. "Creating opportunity also means ensuring access to a quality education. For too many families and students, a college education remains out of reach. The President's proposal to waive tuition for the first two years of community college is a bold idea that would help millions of students and thousands of New Yorkers secure their share of the American Dream. Likewise, providing tax relief to working families struggling to pay for an education makes sense not just for working families, but for our businesses, our communities and the overall competitiveness of our nation. "Changes to our tax code can benefit working families in other ways. Tonight the President proposed giving middle and low-income families with children greater relief, while closing loopholes that have allowed hundreds of billions of dollars in inherited wealth to evade taxation. By ensuring the most affluent among us pay their fair share and returning tax rates for the very wealthy to where they were under President Reagan, we can help those struggling to get a foothold as they climb the ladder of opportunity. "New Yorkers will also benefit from the President's emphasis on upgrading our national infrastructure. Our City's workers stand ready to work on projects improving transportation and telecommunications. Likewise, New York's regional economy is attached to the health of our local ports and investing in their maintenance will create a stronger economic base for the long term. "Of course, preserving the American dream has always meant creating opportunity for the most recently arrived Americans – those who have come here from other parts of the globe to work hard and build a new, better life. In that regard, it is vital Congress at long last answer the President's call to pass a law that honors our collective history as a nation of immigrants. "In recent years, our nation and our City have faced down enormous challenges. After years of sacrifice, we are turning the corner with jobs returning and businesses growing. The next several years will be vital to ensuring that all New Yorkers and all Americans benefit from this progress. I call on my colleagues in Congress to work with the President in achieving this goal and striving to create a more perfect Union for all." # # #
01.15.2015	Washington, DC –Forty Sunset Park apartment buildings, constituting 360 units of affordable housing have opted to stay in a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) program, maintaining affordable housing options for current and future tenants in the neighborhood, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. The decision comes as the buildings' five-year contract in HUD's Section 8 program was set to expire, which could have eliminated housing subsidies tied to the buildings and caused a significant loss of affordable housing in the neighborhood. "The decision by the owners of E&M Management to renew their contracts with HUD and keep these buildings affordable is a win-win for tenants, our community and the building owners," Velázquez noted. "For years these buildings and their residents have been a vital part of Sunset Park's community fabric and it is heartening to hear the owner intends to keep it that way. " HUD's project-based Section 8 initiative pays private buildings the remainder of low-income tenants' rents after tenants have contributed 30% of their monthly income. While tenants would have theoretically received vouchers if the buildings in question left the program, housing advocates pointed out that many tenants could easily have fallen through the cracks. In addition, keeping the buildings in the project-based Section 8 program ensures that should current residents leave, the units will be affordable for future tenants, providing greater availability of affordable housing in the neighborhood for years to come. "This decision means that these buildings and units will remain affordable for working families," Velázquez noted. "With rents throughout the city escalating, we must fight to preserve the affordable housing options that exist." As the owners of the building considered their options for leaving or staying in the Section 8 program, Velázquez worked closely with area tenant groups and HUD in seeking a solution to the problem. "This is an excellent example of how the community can work together to ensure quality, affordable housing for all our neighbors," Velázquez noted. "I look forward to continuing to work with these groups to ensure capital investments are made to strengthen and improve these facilities." # # #
01.14.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez made the following remarks regarding debate on House Republicans' Department of Homeland Security funding bill: "Mr. Speaker, when it comes to protecting our homeland, it is incumbent on all of us – Democrats and Republicans – to put politics aside and work together. Yet, the exercise we are going through today risks not funding the Department of Homeland Security. "We know that elements of this bill blocking the President’s immigration reforms will not become law. Republican Senators are already expressing their skepticism about this approach. And, the President would veto this bill if it passed Congress with these provisions. So as the clock ticks down on funding for our homeland security agencies, why are we wasting time on this debate? Sadly, the answer is that the majority party is catering to its extreme wing -- anti-immigrant, tea party Republicans who are obsessively focused on blocking the President. "Mr. Speaker, let’s be clear -- the President acted when this House did not. Last Congress, the Senate passed legislation to fix our broken immigration laws. However, this body dawdled, delayed and ultimately did nothing. Finally, the President was forced to move forward alone. He took sensible steps -- backed by legal precedent and well within his authority -- that will resolve some of the worst flaws in our broken immigration system. "Now, House Republicans are saying that unless they can block the President and punish immigrants, they will jeopardize funding for the Secret Service, for the Coast Guard and the TSA. At a time when the world is reeling from horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, how can my colleagues play politics with funding for these agencies? This is cynical politics at its worst -- and we must reject it. "I yield back." # # #
01.09.2015	Washington, DC – With the start of the 114th Congress, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has authored two new pieces of legislation aimed at helping New York’s small businesses thrive and grow. The measures, introduced on Tuesday, the first day of the new Congress, would give companies impacted by Sandy another chance to apply for assistance and improve local entrepreneurial development initiatives. “With more than 190,000 small employers in New York City, entrepreneurship remains a driving force in our local economy,” Velázquez noted. “It is incumbent on Washington to ensure New Yorkers who are willing to invest their personal savings in a new venture have the support and tools they need to succeed.” With many New York businesses still struggling from the effects of hurricane Sandy, Velázquez has prepared legislation that would reopen the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster loan program. In October, Velázquez released a Government Accountability Office report finding numerous problems with how the agency administered disaster loan assistance in the weeks after Sandy struck. According to the report, the SBA failed to meet its own goals for processing loan applications in a timely manner. Given the hurdles businesses faced in securing emergency financing, Velázquez’s bill, H.R. 208, the “Superstorm Sandy Relief Act,” would restart the SBA’s disaster loan program helping hurricane-impacted firms access assistance. “It is clear the SBA was caught flat-footed by Hurricane Sandy,” Velázquez noted. “Reopening the loan approval process will give entrepreneurs still reeling from Sandy another chance to access emergency capital, keeping their doors open, employees on their payrolls and helping them perform needed repairs.” Velázquez’s second bill, H.R. 207, the “Small Business Development Centers Improvement Act”, takes steps to strengthen entrepreneurial development services offered by the SBA. By streamlining the agency’s Small Business Development Center initiatives, the measure would ensure more resources are available for Americans looking to start a new business and for existing firms looking to expand. 18 regional and local SBDC offices serve New York City. “From securing financing to designing a business plan, Small Business Development Centers provide critical guidance and assistance to growing small firms and prospective business owners,” Velázquez said. “With many New Yorkers turning to entrepreneurship as a new source of income, we need these initiatives performing at the highest level possible.” As the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, the Congresswoman has a long track record of promoting policies that help small firms achieve success. Last Congress she authored legislation to help women-owned small firms secure their share of federal contracts. She has also been an outspoken advocate for enhancing the availability of capital for small companies. Velázquez’s two measures have been referred to the Small Business Committee for consideration. # # #
01.07.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined colleagues today in introducing legislation to restore the rights of all legally married couples, including same-sex couples, ensuring they receive all benefits of marriage under federal law. The bill, the Respect for Marriage Act (RMA), would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act, a discriminatory law Congress passed in 1996. “The march of progress is clear. Across the nation, states are increasingly recognizing same-sex marriages and the courts are upholding this fundamental human right,” Velázquez said. “Now, Congress must act to scrap what remains of this discriminatory and unconstitutional law.” In 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down portions of the Defense of Marriage Act which restrict U.S. federal interpretation of “marriage” and “spouse” to apply only to heterosexual unions. Despite this historic decision and efforts by the Obama Administration to extend federal benefits to same sex couples, elements of the discriminatory law continue impeding progress, particularly for LGBT couples residing in states that have not yet recognized same-sex marriages. “To fully address this matter, Congress must act and wipe this discriminatory law off the books,” Velázquez added. “I call on the House Republican Leadership to swiftly move this legislation to the floor and allow us to vote on the matter.” The legislation cosponsored by Velázquez, the Respect for Marriage Act, has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration. A companion measure has also been put forth by Democrats in the U.S. Senate. # # #
01.06.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined colleagues today in introducing legislation to restore the rights of all legally married couples, including same-sex couples, ensuring they receive all benefits of marriage under federal law. The bill, the Respect for Marriage Act (RMA), would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act, a discriminatory law Congress passed in 1996. “The march of progress is clear. Across the nation, states are increasingly recognizing same-sex marriages and the courts are upholding this fundamental human right,” Velázquez said. “Now, Congress must act to scrap what remains of this discriminatory and unconstitutional law.” In 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down portions of the Defense of Marriage Act which restrict U.S. federal interpretation of “marriage” and “spouse” to apply only to heterosexual unions. Despite this historic decision and efforts by the Obama Administration to extend federal benefits to same sex couples, elements of the discriminatory law continue impeding progress, particularly for LGBT couples residing in states that have not yet recognized same-sex marriages. “To fully address this matter, Congress must act and wipe this discriminatory law off the books,” Velázquez added. “I call on the House Republican Leadership to swiftly move this legislation to the floor and allow us to vote on the matter.” The legislation cosponsored by Velázquez, the Respect for Marriage Act, has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration. A companion measure has also been put forth by Democrats in the U.S. Senate. # # #
01.02.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the regarding the passing of former Governor Mario Cuomo: "Mario Cuomo's intellect, integrity and vision inspired progressives not only in New York, but also throughout the entire nation. Our party and country have lost a strong voice for social justice, while our state and city have lost a champion of working families. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. I hope they find some comfort in knowing that Mario Cuomo's many contributions will outlive him and long be remembered." # # #
12.17.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the announcement today that the President is charting a new course in U.S.-Cuba relations: "The President's announcement is an important step in the right direction and I strongly commend him for adopting this new approach. It is my hope that these steps will help lead to a freer, more prosperous Cuba." # # #
12.16.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the beginning of Hanukkah: "As the sun goes down tonight and Hanukkah begins, I wish all my neighbors joy and smiles during this year’s festival of lights.” # # #
12.04.2014	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez that would help women-owned businesses secure federal contracts. The “Women's Procurement Program Equalization Act” passed the House as part of the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Authorization bill on Thursday. “When it comes to federal procurement, women-owned companies too often face an uphill battle winning their fair share of contracts,” Velázquez noted. “The legislation approved today will mean greater opportunity for female entrepreneurs and a fairer procurement process.” Velazquez’s measure, H.R. 2452, would build on the Women’s Procurement Program, an initiative Velazquez originally authored in 2000. Under the bill passed today, contracting officers can now award, when appropriate, sole source contracts to eligible women-owned small businesses. This measure creates parity between the Women’s Procurement Program and other small and disadvantaged business programs and will allow more contracting dollars to be awarded to participants. Along with eliminating the current self-certification mechanism, H.R. 2452 also requires the Small Business Administration to create its own certification process. These two certification measures will reduce fraud and ensure that these contracts are awarded to their intended recipients, women-owned small businesses. “With 305,000 women-owned businesses in our City, female-entrepreneurs are a driving force in New York’s economy,” Velázquez noted. “By generating opportunities in the federal marketplace for these firms, we can create jobs locally, while ensuring the federal government obtains quality products and services at good value for the taxpayer.” As the Ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, Velázquez has long been an advocate for female entrepreneurs. While the federal government is supposed to ensure women-owned firms receive 5% of federal contracts, agencies routinely miss that mark. Last year, just $15.4 billion or 4% of federal contracting dollars went to woman-owned firms. Women business groups hailed the passage of the bill as a significant improvement to the procurement process. “The U.S. Women’s Chamber of Commerce strongly supports the inclusion of improvements to the Women-Owned Small Business and Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business federal contracting program contained in the joint agreement between the House and Senate for the National Defense Authorization Act of FY 2015 and extend our deep thanks to Congresswoman Velazquez for her substantial contribution to assuring fair access to federal contracts for women-owned firms,” said Margot Dorfman, Chief Executive Officer of the U.S. Women’s Chamber of Commerce. “Congresswoman Velazquez is truly the national champion for women business owners.” The broader legislation containing Velázquez’s bill passed the House with bipartisan support. In coming days, it is expected to receive Senate approval and be signed into law by the President. # # # #
12.03.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following remarks regarding news that a Grand Jury in New York had failed to make an indictment in the Eric Garner case: “I am profoundly saddened and perplexed that, after reviewing the available video evidence, a Grand Jury could not find grounds for an indictment. Not only does this ruling send the wrong message to the police department – that this type of police abuse is permissible – but it sends a message to young people of color in communities like Red Hook and Sunset Park, telling them no one will protect them or their rights. “This is not just a New York City problem. The recent tragedies in Ferguson and Cleveland remind us that the deep rift of distrust between our communities and local law enforcement is a national problem – and one that demands a national conversation on race and police practices. Whether it is the Eric Garner case or the incident surrounding Akai Gurley, the young man from my district shot by a police officer, or incidents of police violence in Sunset Park, it is clear that issues of police abuse against minorities remain prevalent and demand a thorough response. In this case, the federal government should swiftly and thoroughly investigate to determine whether Eric Garner’s civil rights were violated. “Just as the federal government must intervene to seek justice for the Garner family, we also need broader law enforcement reforms that prevent future similar tragedies. It is time for the Department of Justice to begin carefully and thoroughly cataloging allegations of police brutality to determine areas where these problems are most common. I would also call on Mayor DeBlasio to end the policy of ‘broken windows’ policing, which too often results in law enforcement harassment of young men of color and fails to make communities safer. “Today is a sad day, but it is my hope that some good can come from this tragedy if we continue striving for progress. I call on all in our City to come together and continue pursuing justice through peaceful, constructive means.” # # # # # # #
11.21.2014	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following comments regarding President Obama's immigration Executive Order announcement: "The President's announcement is a much needed step in the right direction and a significant improvement over the status quo. Nonetheless, the Administration can and must do more. Even more importantly, Republicans in the House must stop blocking legislation that would comprehensively reform our immigration laws. Only action by Congress can solve this problem and provide needed relief to all the families affected by our nation's broken immigration system." # # # #
11.20.2014	Washington, DC – The House Democratic Caucus today named Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business. The Committee has jurisdiction over the Small Business Administration (SBA) as well as government procurement policy. Velázquez pledged to continue working to expand economic opportunity, by unlocking capital for entrepreneurs, enhancing technical assistance and other initiatives and fighting to ensure small firms receive their fair share of federal contracts. “I am honored and humbled that my colleagues saw fit to choose me to serve as the lead Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business,” Velázquez said. “Whether you look at major cities or rural areas, across America, small businesses are the cornerstone of our communities’ local economies.” Elected in 1992, Velázquez was the first Hispanic woman to serve as Ranking Member of a full House committee. In 2006, she was named Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, making her the first Latina to chair a full Congressional committee. During her tenure on the Committee she has endeavored to create opportunities in entrepreneurship for women, minorities, veterans and other traditionally disadvantaged groups. “The face of entrepreneurship is changing as more women, minorities and low-income workers launch their own businesses,” Velázquez noted. “It is important that this new generation have the resources and tools they need to succeed.” As the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, Velázquez has authored legislation to improve the SBA’s overall functions, help small firms access capital and create new federal contracting opportunities for women-owned firms. “Small business is big business in America,” Velázquez added. “I look forward to working on behalf of our nation’s entrepreneurs in the new Congress.” # # # #
10.23.2014	New York, NY – Today, the GAO released a report requested by Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) on the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) response to Hurricane Sandy. The GAO found that SBA was unprepared for the significant number of applications it received after Sandy and as a result, many small businesses faced substantial delays for assistance. “We all remember what it was like right after Sandy and businesses required immediate help,” Velázquez stated. “They needed financial assistance in days, not months.” From loan processing through closing, small businesses had to wait on average 111 days for a physical disaster loan and 81 days for an economic injury loan (EIDL). The report found that the agency took an average of 45 days to approve or decline physical business disaster loans and 38 days for EIDLs, both of which exceed SBA’s 21-day application goal. At its peak, the processing average was 60 days and one year after Sandy, the average still exceeded the SBA’s goal. When combined with the time needed for closing, businesses faced up to a four month wait to receive actual funding. “The agency was caught flat-footed,” Velázquez remarked. “Missteps, a lack of planning, and an inability to right the ship quickly left businesses frustrated and unable to secure the financing they needed.” GAO found that these delays were caused by poor planning by SBA. The agency underestimated the amount of applications it would receive in the immediate period after Sandy, while overestimating the number of applications it could process. When combined with technology-related failures, the agency quickly fell behind and was unable to promptly adjust its resources. “Given GAO findings, New York’s small businesses deserve another opportunity to secure assistance from SBA,” Velázquez stated. “This is the least we can do to help these businesses recover.” In order to provide relief to businesses still in need of resources, Velázquez will call on Congress to reopen the SBA’s Disaster Program to those affected by Hurricane Sandy. Such a move was made after Hurricane Katrina and will provide New York City’s small businesses with another opportunity to secure low-cost financial assistance. The GAO report in its entirety can be found at: https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-14-760 # # # #
10.15.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding recent hate crimes in Bushwick: "Violence has no place in our neighborhood and crimes motivated by prejudice are particularly abhorrent. All of us must come together and speak with one voice in opposing incidents like these and fostering a culture of compassion, tolerance and respect." ###
09.24.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote the Inspector General of the United States Postal Service calling for an audit of mail delivery at the Red Hook Post Office. The text of the letter is below. September 24, 2014 The Honorable David Williams Inspector General United States Postal Service 1735 North Lynn Street Arlington, VA 22209-2020 Dear Inspector General Williams: I am writing you regarding the Red Hook Post Office located at 615 Clinton Street, Brooklyn, New York, which provides postal service to residents of Red Hook, Carroll Gardens and the Columbia Waterfront District. Given recent problems at this location, I am asking that your office conduct an audit of the accuracy and timeliness of the mail delivery process at the Red Hook Post Office. Local residents have recently brought to my attention instances of inadequate service and unprofessional conduct, which when taken together denote a troubling pattern. This includes mail delivered to wrong addresses, missing packages, parcels that were damaged and/or missing items, and weekdays without any mail delivery at all. Often, consumers have faced challenges in seeking redress for these occurrences, which have only compounded these problems. Reports of unprofessional treatment by staff have caused many residents to rely on other privately-operated delivery services. Our residents need – and deserve – better from the United States Postal Service. The excessive frequency and sheer volume of complaints regarding mail delivery related to the Red Hook Post Office dictate that immediate intervention is warranted. Without such action, residents of Red Hook will be left without access to essential postal services as specified under federal law. To this point, federal law (39 U.S.C. 403(b)(3)) states that “[i]t shall be the responsibility of the Postal Service to establish and maintain postal facilities of such character and in such locations, that postal patrons throughout the Nation will, consistent with reasonable economies of postal operations, have ready access to essential postal services.” Under current conditions, many Red Hook residents do not have access to these services as required by law. It is further (39 U.S.C. 403(b)(1)) stipulated that the Postal Service “maintain an efficient system of collection, sorting, and delivery of the mail nationwide.” Given the widespread reports of mail delivery difficulties, it appears that the Red Hook Post Office is not operating efficiently. Given these challenges, I am requesting that your office conduct an audit of the accuracy and timeliness of the mail delivery process at the Red Hook Post Office. The Postal Service – and the Red Hook Post Office in particular – remain vital to our local residents and businesses. With your assistance it can be restored as an asset to our community. Please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions about this matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress # # #
09.18.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks on the House floor regarding the People's Climate March being held Sunday in New York City: Madam Speaker, this Sunday will mark history as more New Yorkers than ever before come together to demonstrate their commitment to solving the climate change crisis. During the “People’s Climate March”, New Yorkers from all walks of life will march through Manhattan in support of a more sustainable future. I am proud to be joining this effort. UPROSE, a grassroots environmental justice organization in my district, is one of the lead organizers in New York City. UPROSE has a long record of working on environmental issues locally and globally through community empowerment and fostering future environmental leaders. I am proud to join with them in Sunday’s march. The backdrop for the New York event will be the United Nations Summit on Climate Change, where representatives from around the globe will convene to discuss this matter. Locally, this timely event will underscore the importance of working now to preserve our planet for future generations. However, this will be a global event with actions taking place throughout the world. From London to Rio to Johannesburg to New Dehli, people everywhere will speak with one collective voice in calling for environmental justice, an economy that works for people and the planet, clean air and good jobs. I urge all my colleagues to join in these collective actions and show their support for protecting our planet. I yield back. ###
08.08.2014	Washington, DC –On Wednesday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) hosted a roundtable discussion between federal, state and city officials aimed at finding ways to ensure New York City small firms impacted by Hurricane Sandy receive assistance they need to fully recover. “Too often, we’ve found city, state and federal assistance programs have delays and hurdles that impede New York businesses from securing the help they deserve,” Velázquez noted. “By bringing together business owners and service providers at all government levels, we can cut through the red tape and ensure businesses secure grants and loans to speed their recovery.” Wednesday’s roundtable follows up on a May forum held by the Congresswoman. This week’s event was attended by business owners who spoke passionately about their difficulties securing assistance. In addition, representatives from federal, state, and city agencies attended to report on progress they have made streamlining small business recovery programs. It was also attended by Councilmen Carlos Menchaca, Mark Treyger, and Brad Lander. Despite the wide range of programs ostensibly aimed at helping small firms recover from the hurricane, many New York businesses continue struggling to access aid. A recent New York Fed study found that 40 percent of businesses they surveyed were impacted by the storm. Of those affected, most were still looking for financing one year after the storm, with a typical business seeking a working capital loan for less than $100,000. “After natural disasters, one of the most important things we can do is help revive the business base,” Velázquez noted. “Doing so helps entire communities come back, rebuild and return to prosperity.” A range of federal, state and City agencies have dedicated resources to helping small firms recover. At the federal level, the Small Business Administration has an established a disaster loan program. Additionally, Congress funded the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide cities and states Community Development Block Grants for Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR). Despite these significant investments, there must be better coordination among agencies, and many businesses complained of being unable to access assistance. For example, during May’s discussion it was found that while both New York City and New York State use CDBG-DR funding for business loan and grant programs, one city initiative required entrepreneurs to secure a loan with strict criteria, before being eligible for a grant. At the meeting the Commissioner of the NYC Department of Small Business Services explained their newly redesigned program allows businesses to apply for grants first with more flexible requirements and for higher amounts. By allowing businesses to apply for a grant first, more firms will be eligible for a loan, allowing them to strengthen their long term cash flow. “Small businesses are the cornerstone of New York’s economy and when it comes to recovery from Sandy, we owe them better than we’ve delivered to date,” Velázquez noted. “It is my hope that we can continue working collaboratively to improve this process for New York’s entrepreneurs.” At the conclusion of the meeting, the Congresswoman proposed the formation of "SWAT" - Sandy Work Action Team - with members of each agency, service providers, elected officials, and small business representatives committed to meeting regularly and working through remaining challenges. This will help ensure New York City small firms impacted by Sandy receive assistance they need to recover. The Congresswoman plans to hold another interagency round table meeting in three months to gauge progress. ###
05.08.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement marking Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: "As Chinatown's Congressional Representative, I'm especially proud of the countless contributions Asian Americans have made to our City's cultural and economic fabric. "Economically, Asian Americans are a critical part of our nation and our city. Nationally, more than one million Asian American entrepreneurs create jobs in their communities, helping fuel local commerce. In New York, we have seen firsthand how this community has helped drive our economy forward through hard work and ingenuity. "Historically and culturally, New York City and our entire nation simply would not be the same without the infusion of Asian traditions. Whether it is food, art, language or any other facet of cultural life, Asian Americans have made our city and our country stronger and richer. Not only in Chinatown, but increasingly throughout Brooklyn, Queens and all five boroughs, Asian Americans are a critical part of our shared cultural tapestry. "In coming years, Asian Americans will be only more important to our country's growth and our city's diversity. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month provides us all an opportunity to reflect upon this community's many contributions and to celebrate its bright future." ###
04.25.2014	Washington, DC – Two Brooklyn organizations that advocate for fairer and more affordable housing in New York City are receiving additional resources from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation and South Brooklyn Legal Corporation are receiving $975,000, collectively, to continue providing legal and other services to working families in Brooklyn. “For families to access affordable housing, they often need legal representation that takes their side against abusive landlords,” Velázquez noted. “I’m pleased these organizations are receiving additional federal funding that will allow them to continue advocating on behalf of New York’s working families.” For a decade and a half, these groups have focused on legal redress to prevent predatory lending and foreclosure. The groups have also been instrumental in stopping housing discrimination, lending discrimination and foreclosures. Most recently, Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation was involved in several high-profile cases where a Bushwick landlord was refusing to repair apartment properties in an attempt to force out lower income tenants and eventually raise rents. “Too often, the landlord-tenant relationship is unbalanced with all the power on the side of unscrupulous landlords,” Velázquez added. “Organizations like these play a critical role in giving tenants somewhere to turn when they are being treated unfairly under the law.” The grants come as HUD observes National Fair Housing Month, which marks the passage of the 1968 Fair Housing Act, the landmark law that prohibits housing discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability and family status. “Fair and affordable housing is a basic right for all New Yorkers and all Americans,” Velázquez noted. “To protect those rights we must continue investing in those organizations committed to advocating on behalf of residents.” ###
04.10.2014	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat of the House Committee on Small Business, released a report today detailing the severe harm that the Republican "Ryan Budget" for Fiscal Year 2015 would impose on small businesses. The text of her remarks are below. The full report may be downloaded here. "If there is one number that you take away from this press conference, it is that the Ryan Budget would cost our economy well over a quarter a million small business jobs. In New York state it would mean the loss 20,000 small business jobs, 8,300 of them in New York City. Far from being a "Path to Prosperity," this budget is actually far more of a "Path to the Poorhouse." "Because of small businesses important role in our economy, it is important that we craft a federal budget that supports their continued development. Unfortunately, in this regard, the Ryan Budget clearly fails. According to a report released today by Committee on Small Business Democrats, the Ryan Budget would dramatically reduce federal assistance and support for small firms across the country. It finds that small business resources would be cut by nearly $11 billion. "A wide range of resources would be gutted – from contracts, to access to capital, to international trade assistance, to job training. In New York alone, lending to our area small firms would drop by almost $1 billion. Small companies that have the federal government as a customer would also take a hit as procurement opportunities for New York City businesses would fall off by $4 billion. "What will be the end result? Lower startup rates and fewer jobs. "For small businesses to thrive, they require an environment that is conducive for growth. Many of the programs detailed in the Committee's Report are critical to manufacturers, tech firms, retailers, and the service industry. Studies have shown that many of them generate more than three dollars in additional federal revenue for every dollar spent. What type of economic policy says that you cut programs that generate net positive income for the Treasury? This begs the question. Is it the Republicans goal to support good programs or are they just imposing one party's narrow political ideology on the entire nation. This is simply not a blueprint for job growth. "Republicans always claim that they are champions of small businesses. They opposed the Affordable Care Act because – they claim -- it will cost small businesses jobs. They opposed the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory reform because – they say -- it will hurt small business lending. "You would think that with all this rhetoric, small businesses would be their top priority. But then you see what they propose in the Ryan Budget you see that their rhetoric does not match reality. The fact is that under the Ryan plan, small businesses would be among those losing the most. "Small businesses are the foundation of our economy – and the Ryan Budget takes a sledgehammer to them. We can do better. We must do better – and this is why I will be urging my colleagues to reject the Ryan Budget and enact a true pro-growth budget." ###
03.06.2014	Washington, DC – Two legislative measures authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), have been approved by the House Committee on Small Business. Velázquez, the top Democrat on the Committee, said the measures would help New York entrepreneurs grow their businesses and create good paying, local jobs. “With more than 190,000 small enterprises, small businesses are the backbone of New York’s economy and our most prolific job creators,” Velázquez said. “The legislation I authored will generate new opportunity for our City’s entrepreneurs, empowering them to grow and add employees to their payrolls.” Velázquez’s first bill, H.R. 4121, the “Small Businesses Development Center Act”, takes steps to strengthen entrepreneurial development services offered by the Small Business Administration (SBA). By streamlining the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Small Business Development Center (SBDC) program, the measure would ensure that more resources are available for Americans looking to start a new business and for existing firms seeking help expanding. 18 regional and local SBDC offices serve New York City. “The Small Business Administration’s network of Small Business Development Centers provides valuable guidance and technical assistance to entrepreneurs and those considering launching a new venture,” Velázquez said. “With many New Yorkers turning to entrepreneurship as a new source of income, we need these initiatives performing at the highest level possible.” A second measure authored by Velázquez, H.R. 2452, the “Women's Procurement Program Equalization Act”, would allow agencies to target certain federal contracts to women-owned firms, as is already done for other disadvantaged businesses. Velazquez is the author of the Women's Procurement Program, a recently implemented initiative that has helped federal agencies boost women's participation the federal marketplace. “Comprising 30 percent of all small businesses, women-owned enterprises are a growing force in the American economy,” Velázquez noted. “Unfortunately, too often they are locked out of the federal marketplace as the ‘old boys’ network’ games the procurement system to win lucrative federal contracts. By helping women compete in this area, we can bring greater equality to the system and generate new opportunities for female entrepreneurs.” The two measures were adopted by the Committee today as part of a raft of bills updating the government’s procurement policies. The Committee passed Velázquez’s bills by “voice vote”, suggesting strong bipartisan support for the measures. The bills will next be sent to the House floor for consideration. ###
01.31.2014	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Chinese New Year: “As Chinese New Yorkers observe the Lunar New Year, I wish everyone the best for a joyous holiday. This celebration is not only tremendous fun, but also an important part of our City’s diverse cultural fabric. As friends and family in our community gather together honoring their traditions, I wish everyone luck in the Year of the Horse.” ###
01.29.2014	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Obama argued forcefully for the need to create new paths of opportunity for all Americans. Ensuring that all children – regardless of their economic background – have the chance to secure a quality education, grow up in a safe community and pursue a rewarding career is an American ideal – one that our nation has neglected for too long. The President made clear that it is time to restore this priority – and he wants to work with Congress on this critical goal. However, should Congress refuse to act, he also made clear he will find other ways to move the country forward. I applaud his resolve. “The cornerstone of this effort must be livable wages for working families. The President’s announcement tonight to raise the minimum wage for firms that do business with the federal government is a good first step. Congress must act as a partner in this regard and raise the federal minimum wage for all companies, so that workers receive honest pay for an honest day’s work. “Part of this opportunity also includes access to health care. Already, thanks to the Affordable Care Act, 2.1 million Americans have been able to purchase insurance. It is my expectation these numbers will only continue to grow. Equally important, the ACA now protects millions of Americans from insurance industry abuses. No longer can you be denied coverage due to preexisting conditions. Women no longer face price discrimination based only on their gender. Millions of young people are able to stay on their parents’ coverage. These reforms are benefiting New Yorkers and Americans every single day -- and we will not allow them to be rolled back. “Of course, preserving the American dream has always meant creating opportunity for the most recently arrived Americans – those who have come here from other parts of the globe to work hard and build a new, better life. In that regard, it is vital Congress and the Administration work hand-in-hand to finally enact comprehensive reform of our nation’s immigration laws. Doing so will strengthen our economy by ensuring talented, entrepreneurial individuals continue coming to our nation, creating new jobs for all Americans. It will also fix a broken and immoral system that is tearing families apart and creating a second, ‘shadow’ class of citizens. “Americans and New Yorkers have seen tough times in recent years, but if history has proven anything, it is that as a nation and a City we are fundamentally resilient. By working together, we continue tackling the big challenges ahead, creating opportunity for our children and building a more perfect union. In that regard, I believe the President’s optimistic tone struck the right chord. I look forward to working with him to truly make 2014 a year of action.” ###
01.29.2014	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding reductions to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that passed the U.S. House of Representatives today: “From the beginning, I opposed Republican efforts to cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. While this final legislative product does not go as far as Tea Party Republicans wanted in reducing SNAP funding, it still makes harmful and regrettable cuts. The original House-passed bill contained damaging cuts of $40 billion, which I staunchly opposed. Today’s measure would reduce SNAP funding by $8.6 billion. Nationally, this reduction in resources is expected to affect 850,000 families and lower monthly benefits by an average of $90 a month. “Fortunately, a number of draconian proposals included in the original House-passed bill have not made it into this legislative package. Those misguided provisions, which would have cut off unemployed childless adults, eliminated SNAP benefits for households with incomes modestly above federal limits, and allowed states to subject recipients to drug testing, have been removed from this package. It has been estimated that had those ideas been enacted, nearly 4 million people, including many low-income children and seniors, would have been denied assistance. Thankfully, those proposals have been stripped from the legislation. “SNAP is a critical safety net for nearly 2 million New York City residents and going forward, I will continue pushing to fully restore SNAP assistance. With so many working families and seniors still struggling to put food on the table, we simply cannot turn our back on our nation’s most vulnerable.” ###
12.17.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding media reports that SUNY is considering a redevelopment proposal for Long Island College Hospital: “SUNY is doing the opposite of what the community wants - going forward unilaterally with a redevelopment scheme that does not offer a full service hospital. From the beginning, SUNY’s proposal process has been conducted in a secretive way that left out the community, elected officials and stakeholders. SUNY should start over -- this time, in a transparent manner with real community participation.” ###
12.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez spoke today on the House floor in opposition to the recent budget which did not include an extension of unemployment benefits. Following are her remarks as prepared for delivery: "In 16 days, 1.3 million Americans will lose the unemployment benefits they have relied on to buy groceries and keep a roof over their heads. By the end of the first quarter, an additional 850,000 Americans will have lost their benefits. The economy is still struggling in the wake of the 2008 financial collapse. We should not be revoking needed economic assistance from job seekers while millions of Americans are fighting to get back to work. "Last year, unemployment insurance kept 2.5 million Americans and .6 million children out of poverty. If long-term jobless benefits are allowed to expire, next year there will be nothing to protect these families from long spells of unemployment. Unfortunately, this budget proposal fails to extend the unemployment insurance millions of Americans rely on to make ends' meet. Allowing jobless benefits to expire will not put people back to work; it will just make it harder for families to pay the bills and discourage people from seeking employment. I urge my colleagues to continue fighting for struggling Americans, and I hope that Americans are playing close attention to what is happening in Congress today. "Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time." ###
12.06.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) participated in a Democratic Steering and Policy Committee hearing on “Expiring Unemployment Insurance: A Financial Cliff Facing 1.3 Million Americans.” Following are her prepared remarks: “I’d like to thank you for holding this hearing today to bring attention to the coming expiration of unemployment benefits and the effects this program cut will have on working families. “Since 2008, millions of Americans have lost their jobs or had their hours cut back as a result of a financial collapse they did not cause. Democrats have consistently fought to protect individuals suffering from the effects of the recession. While our response has not been perfect, we have been able to maintain a strong unemployment insurance program to help Americans weather a broken economy. “In a few weeks, 1.3 million Americans will lose the unemployment benefits they have relied on to buy groceries and keep a roof over their heads. By the end of the first quarter, an additional 850,000 Americans will have lost their benefits. We should not be revoking needed economic assistance from job seekers while millions of Americans are fighting to get back to work and struggling to pay their bills. “This sudden change in policy affects the worst off in this economy—the long-term unemployed. Studies show that significant time out of the labor force makes it harder for an individual to find a job. When they do find one, it is often a lower-paying position or a step back in their career. Without the crucial lifeline that unemployment insurance provides, we leave millions of Americans without income and risk pushing them out of the job market entirely. “This is just one example of a Republican assault on social insurance programs. Their refusal to expand Medicaid, support for the reduction in SNAP benefits, and insistence on sequestration has resulted in benefit reductions for working families. As Republicans have rolled back the safety net, Americans have lost access to housing, food, education, and child care. The expiration of long-term unemployment benefits compounds an already difficult situation for many Americans. “Last year, unemployment insurance kept 2.5 million Americans and .6 million children out of poverty. If long-term jobless benefits are allowed to expire, next year there will be nothing to protect these families from long spells of unemployment. Food stamps, Medicaid benefits, and federal child care subsidies are not generous enough to make up for the loss of a reliable unemployment benefit. “In New York City, this is a particularly pressing problem. My city has an unemployment rate of nearly 9 percent, over 1 percent greater than the national average. Already, SNAP cuts have resulted in the loss 76 million meals per year for New York City residents. Cutting New Yorkers off from unemployment insurance will not put people back to work. This expiration of benefits will make the unemployed worse off and job searches harder. “My colleagues on the other side of the aisle say they are concerned about the average person. But actions speak louder than words, and their actions tell us they are not concerned with the difficulties Americans face. I hope that the Americans they are ignoring are playing close attention to what is happening in Congress today. Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
12.03.2013	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation that would allow an expansion of the Lower East Side (LES) Tenement Museum. Authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), H.R. 1846, the "Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site Amendments Act", would allow the museum's expansion at 103 Orchard Street, enabling the local landmark to better serve visitors. "Whether it is Chinatown, Little Italy, or émigrés from Germany, immigration has made New York a more vibrant place, offering invaluable economic and cultural contributions, while shaping the city's identity," said Velázquez (D-NY). "The LES Tenement museum honors these communities and pays tribute to the challenges they overcame when arriving in a new nation and city." Since its founding 15 years ago, the LES Tenement Museum has recounted the story of thousands of working class families who lived in the historic structures located in the LES. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the tenements on Orchard Street were populated largely by east European Jewish immigrants, most of whom worked in the local garment industry. Their experiences, along with the stories of other tenement residents, are explored and showcased through the museum's guided tours and exhibits. In 1998, through legislation authored by Velázquez, Congress designated the Museum's location at 97 Orchard Street as an affiliated site of the National Park System. The Secretary of the Interior declared the museum a historic landmark in 1994. As interest in the museum has grown, there is need for additional space. By having the National Park System recognize the Museum's expansion at 103 Orchard Street, Velázquez's most recent bill will enable the Museum to expand its programs and services. Over the years, interest in the Museum has grown with the facility now serving 200,000 visitors per year, including 40,000 school children. This growth in popularity has resulted in a demand for additional space. The Museum is already developing new programs and exhibits, including a project that will interpret the history of Holocaust survivors rebuilding their lives in America. "We are thrilled that the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1846 today," said Morris Vogel, President of the Museum. "The Museum has always treasured its relationship with the National Park Service and is excited to see that relationship grow stronger as this new site is added to its boundaries. We'll use the site to tell the stories of real Puerto Rican and Chinese families—and Jewish Holocaust survivors—who lived and worked toward the American dream on the Lower East Side. Their stories are a critical chapter in our nation's vibrant melting pot history." "The Lower East Side Tenement Museum is one of our nation's most important historic and cultural institutions," Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) said. "It tells the story of those immigrant families who settled in one of our nation's most iconic and important neighborhoods – the lower East Side of Manhattan and thanks to this bill, the museum will be able to tell even more stories to more people. I commend my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, for her authorship of this important bill." The Senate will now need to consider the measure before it can be presented to the President to be signed into law. "The LES Tenement Museum is a national treasure and an important educational resource," Velázquez added. "I'm proud to support this institution's expansion and growth, which will benefit New Yorkers and visitors alike." # # # ###
11.15.2013	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks on the House floor today in opposition to H.R. 3350, the latest Republican attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Mr. Speaker, let’s be clear about the bill before us today. This bill is not an attempt to help Americans keep their insurance plans. The President already announced a plan to help address that goal. Instead, this bill takes a meat cleaver approach – allowing insurance companies to market inadequate policies to new enrollees. “Remember the bad old days when preexisting conditions were discriminated against? This bill brings back that practice. Remember women paying more for coverage simply because of their gender? That’s ‘A-OK’ under this bill. Remember annual caps that let insurance companies stop paying when a consumer came down with an expensive illness? That’s back, too. “And what about small businesses facing double digit hikes in their premium costs? “If we want to take up targeted legislation helping those whose policies are being discontinued, then let’s do that. But let’s call this bill what it is -- a return to the days when insurance companies preyed on working families -- and the 46th attempt to repeal the affordable care act. I yield back.” # # # ###
10.30.2013	Washington, DC – The House Committee on Natural Resources today approved legislation to allow an expansion of the Lower East Side (LES) Tenement Museum. Authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), H.R. 1846, the “Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site Amendments Act”, would allow the museum’s expansion at 103 Orchard Street, enabling the local landmark to better serve visitors. “Whether it was Asian immigrants, Irish or German émigrés, or recently arrived European Sephardic Jews, the LES’ tenements housed generation after generation of new arrivals to our City,” Velázquez said. “The Museum tells their story and by allowing it to grow, we can ensure visitors continue enjoying this local historic gem.” Since its 1988 founding, the LES Tenement Museum has recounted the story of the 7,000 working class families who lived in the historic structures located in the LES. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the three tenements at 103, 105, and 107 Orchard Street were populated largely by east European Jewish immigrants, most of whom worked in the local garment industry. Their experiences, along with the stories of other tenement residents, are explored and showcased through the museum’s guided tours and exhibits. In 1998, Congress designated the Museum’s location at 97 Orchard Street as an affiliated site of the National Park System and the Secretary of Interior declared the museum a historic landmark in 1994. As interest in the museum has grown, there is growing need for additional space. By having the National Park System recognize the Museum’s expansion at 103 Orchard Street, H.R. 1846 will enable the Museum to open a new visitor center and transform current portions of the museum into additional educational exhibits and tours. “This new National Park Service-affiliated site will allow the Tenement Museum to tell the stories of Puerto Rican and Chinese families who brought their energies and their dreams to the Lower East Side,” said Morris Vogel, President of the Museum. “We’ll use the homes in which real people actually lived to provide accounts of the largest Puerto Rican community on the American mainland and the largest Chinatown in the Western hemisphere. Their stories tell about the people we’ve become. We’re excited that Congress has taken this step.” The legislation was approved in Committee by voice vote. Now that the Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Park Services, has reported out the bill, it must go to the full House for consideration. “Our City has been made stronger, more diverse and better by those who came here from every corner of the globe in search of a better life,” Velázquez added. “The LES Tenement Museum honors this legacy and I’m proud to support its expansion.” ###
09.19.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor today in opposition to H.R. 3102, Republican legislation that would cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. Following are her remarks: "Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the rule and this unconscionable legislation. Make no mistake -- if you support this bill you are voting to take food from the mouths of almost 4 million of our fellow citizens, next year. "Who are these Americans? Nearly half of them are children. They are seniors. They are our veterans. Is this the way to thank them for their service? "Mr. Speaker, Congress does not agree on much these days. But I've always assumed we could at least support the idea that in this country no child should go hungry. Have we gone so far that we cannot even find bipartisan support for that? If so, then, we have truly lost our way. "Is this what my Republican friends call 'compassionate conservatism?' I say to my colleagues – the whole nation is watching. You will be held accountable! "Vote no on this rule and the shameful underlying bill. I yield back." ###
09.11.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the twelve year anniversary of 9/11: “Today is a solemn day for all New Yorkers and all Americans. On this anniversary, we remember the thousands of friends, loved ones, neighbors and family members who lost their lives. We also, however, can look back and reflect on our City’s remarkable resiliency in the face of tragedy. As always, New Yorkers came together to comfort and assist one another and, ultimately, to rebuild. Perhaps there is no finer example of this spirit than was exhibited by our first responders, many of whom made the ultimate sacrifice while protecting the rest of us. Going forward, we must ensure they receive the support and care they need.” # # # ###
08.30.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding Syria: "The use of chemical weapons by Syrian leaders is unconscionable, deplorable and must be condemned. However, just as I have forcefully opposed previous military actions, I oppose this one. Before the Administration takes further action, it must seek explicit Congressional authorization as prescribed under the War Powers Act." ###
08.02.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks during debate on Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the bill before us today. Sadly, we find ourselves in another redundant and unproductive debate over the Affordable Care Act. The estimated cost of today’s vote is over $1 million – paid by hardworking taxpayers. But instead of focusing on jobs and economic growth, we are wasting time and money on denying health coverage to small businesses and their employees. “Not even half of the appropriations bills have been passed and yet Republicans continue their attempts to undermine health reform. This obsession must end. It is time to move on and start tackling the challenges the American people care about – like the budget and jobs. “Blocking the IRS from implementing provisions of the ACA does nothing to help our nation’s small business owners. Rather, today’s bill would keep small employers from taking advantage of the small business health care tax credit – which has already helped 360,000 small employers and 2 million workers. This bill prevents these businesses from utilizing the 50% tax credit in the new SHOP exchanges next year. “That’s why today’s vote is irresponsible and out of touch with American firms. We must continue to ensure quality health coverage is available and utilized by the businesses that are the cornerstone of the economy. “I urge Members to vote no. I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
07.30.2013	Washington, DC –Flanked by environmental leaders and other community groups, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today announced new legislation to revitalize New York's waterfronts and bring American ports into the 21st century. The bill, the "Waterfront of Tomorrow Act," would take important steps to protect New York's coastal areas, while expanding economic opportunity and encouraging environmentally sustainable shipping. "Whether it is commerce, recreation, transportation, or our local environment, New Yorkers' lives are inextricably linked to the water that surrounds us," Velázquez said. "Investing in our ports, coasts and waterfronts can improve our City and local communities." To better protect New York residences and businesses from future storms and floods, the bill would harness the power of the Army Corps of Engineers to develop a comprehensive strategy making coastal areas more resilient. The legislation also encourages the growth of green spaces like the Brooklyn Waterfront Greenway and other coastal projects to make water-adjacent neighborhoods more livable. The bill also makes federal resources available to modernize ports and make them more environmentally sustainable. "From commerce to recreation, the Waterfront of Tomorrow Act would take the steps necessary to strengthen and improve our harbors and ports," Velázquez noted. "Making these investments creates immediate, good paying jobs in construction and engineering, while strengthening our regional economy for the long term." The waterfront and port system are integral parts of New York City's economy, with the shipping industry responsible for more than 269,000 regional jobs. In a single year, the dollar value of all cargo that moves through this region's ports exceeds $180 billion. "It is no coincidence that President Obama used America's ports as the backdrop when unveiling his most recent economic plan," Velázquez noted. "In a global economy, shipping is all the more important and New York ports can serve as regional economic engines, creating good paying, local jobs." When Congress returns from the August District Work Period in September, it is slated to take up major legislation improving the nation's waterways. Velázquez pledged to work with colleagues in advancing her proposal and its components as part of that legislation. Her district, New York's 7th, includes a range of communities close to the water in Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens. # # #
07.29.2013	Washington, DC – On TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2013, at 11 A.M. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez will join with local civic leaders and community groups in announcing a new legislative initiative to strengthen and improve New York’s waterfronts. WHO: Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez Elizabeth Yeampierre, UPROSE Executive Director Eddie Bautista, NYC Environmental Justice Alliance Executive Director Tom Wright, Regional Plan Association Tom Fox, Founder, New York Water Taxi WHAT: Announcement of legislation to improve New York’s waterfronts WHEN: Tuesday, July 30, 2013 at 11 a.m. WHERE: Pier 6 at Brooklyn Bridge Park, waterfront end of Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn The legislation comes in response to Hurricane Sandy and would bolster New York’s waterfronts to withstand future extreme weather events and rising tides brought on by global climate change. Last week, President Obama used America’s ports as the backdrop for unveiling his new plan to reinvigorate the economy and strengthen the middle class. Velázquez’s measure will position New York ports as regional economic engines. Incorporating suggestions from a range of public and private stakeholders, it will help develop New York’s waterfronts in a way that is environmentally sustainable and sensitive to local community needs. MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND THE EVENT ###
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – The Chinatown Head Start program of New York is receiving $940,000 from the federal government to continue their outreach and service to area families. The funding was announced today by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and is being made available as a grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Velázquez praised the funding, saying it would help ensure childcare and early education services are available to vulnerable populations in Chinatown. “Studies consistently show that when children receive educational and nutritional support they need early on, they succeed later in life and throughout their academic career,” Velázquez noted. “Head Start of Chinatown is vital in providing these services to working families in our local community.” Located at 180 Mott Street, the organization serves the needs of over 100 families with a range of services, including education, health and nutrition. Client families often include those who have trouble securing assistance elsewhere, making the organization an important community anchor. “For many busy working families, locating affordable, quality educational services can be challenging,” Velázquez noted. “Programs like these help fill in the gaps, ensuring our children receive care they need and no kids fall through the cracks.” The Head Start program provides Federal grants to local public and private non-profit and for-profit agencies to provide comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged children and families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. ###
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding a Congressional Hispanic Caucus meeting with the President at the White House: “During our meeting, the President made clear he understands the need to fix our broken immigration system, which tears families apart and makes us less safe. In particular, the President placed great emphasis on the economic benefits of comprehensive reform. With the Senate having acted, it is my hope Congress can come together and address this critical issue, which the American people overwhelmingly support seeing resolved.” Earlier today, the White House released a study on the economic benefits of fixing our broken immigration system. That study may be downloaded here. ###
06.26.2013	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s rulings today on the Defense of Marriage Act and Proposition 8: “The Court’s ruling is another important milestone on our nation’s journey toward becoming a more perfect union. It was indefensible that some married, loving couples were denied federal benefits simply because of their sexual orientation. Today’s decision means that the federal government will no longer discriminate in this unconscionable manner. “From a practical level, gay and lesbian couples who have been married in New York will no longer be denied benefits under tax law, from their military service or be treated differently under federal immigration law. “Going forward, the fight must continue to legalize same sex marriage in all states and to ensure all Americans are treated fairly regardless of sexual orientation, gender, race or religion.” ###
06.21.2013	Washington, DC – As the nation observes the 50th annual Small Business Week, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the Ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, has introduced two pieces of legislation aimed at fostering entrepreneurship and helping small firms grow and succeed. Cosponsored by other Democratic Members of the Committee, the legislation tackles two areas critical to small business growth: access to capital and fairness in the federal marketplace. “Small businesses are the engines of economic growth and our best hope for creating new jobs during tough economic times,” Velázquez said. “By fostering an environment conducive to entrepreneurship, we can create good paying jobs and lead our nation back toward prosperity.” The credit market for small companies has improved since the financial crisis of 2007 and the ensuing recession. Large banks approved 17.3% of small business loans in May 2013, representing a 7.1% increase from one year ago, in May 2012. However, many companies continue struggling secure credit, especially those pursuing smaller loan sizes. Small Business Administration (SBA) data shows as recently as 5 years ago, small-dollar loans accounted for 80 percent of SBA-guaranteed lending. Today, that figure has dropped to less than 55 percent. “Startups rely on small loans to get off the ground and create the jobs our economy so badly needs,” Velázquez noted. “For our economy to truly recover, the small-loan market needs to be restored.” To create additional options for firms seeking credit, Velázquez has introduced he Strengthening Entrepreneurs’ Economic Development (SEED) Act. By establishing a direct lending program at the Small Business Administration (SBA), the legislation would open additional channels of capital to small firms, enabling them to expand and hire. “Even in good times, finding affordable capital is a challenge for small companies and today it is clear that many financial institutions are not lending to small businesses at the same pace as before the financial crisis,” Velázquez noted. “By filling in gaps in the small business credit markets, the SBA can help small companies to enter new markets, develop new products, reinvest in their operations and, ultimately, bring on new employees.” In addition to creating new lending opportunities, Velázquez’s second bill would help open the federal marketplace to female entrepreneurs, by creating greater fairness in the procurement process. The Women’s Procurement Program Equalization Act would allow agencies to target certain federal contracts to women-owned firms, as is already done for other disadvantaged businesses. Velázquez is the author of the Women’s Procurement Program, a recently implemented initiative that has helped federal agencies boost women’s participation the federal marketplace. “With participation in contracting among women-owned enterprises below 4 percent, it is clear that female entrepreneurs are not receiving their fair share of federal projects,” Velázquez noted. “By expanding the role of women-owned businesses in the federal market, we can create greater economic opportunity for female entrepreneurs and broaden the pool of companies that do work for the federal government.” Both measures have been referred to the House Committee on Small Business for consideration. ###
06.14.2013	Washington, DC – An amendment authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N) to curb hazing in the United States Armed Forces was approved today by the U.S. House of Representatives. The measure, which passed as part of the Department of Defense Authorization bill, would create an oversight panel comprised of heads of the military branches, as well as advocates from the minority, women and LGBT communities. “The diversity of the young men and women who serve in our Armed Forces is one of our military’s greatest strengths,” Velázquez said. “By ensuring there is outreach to our minority communities, we can prevent future incidents of hazing and protect service members from abuse.” Under Velázquez’s amendment, a Military Hazing Prevention Oversight Panel would develop recommendations to the Secretary of Defense on how to eliminate hazing in the military. The panel will include input from community and minority organizations, ensuring diversity education is a priority. “As anti-hazing policies are developed, it is critical that the minority community has a voice in the discussion,” Velázquez added. “By listening to minority advocates, we can ensure the military’s policies foster diversity and respect for differences among soldiers.” Velázquez’s amendment was authored in response to the circumstances surrounding the death of Danny Chen, an Army Private who died in Afghanistan in 2011 after enduring harassment and beatings from members of his unit. Court records and media reports suggest that much of Chen’s abuse was race based, with his superiors and fellow soldiers often making disparaging remarks about Chen’s ethnicity. “The military needs a proactive approach in fostering diversity and taking a zero-tolerance approach to hazing,” Velázquez added. “While we can’t bring Danny Chen back, we can take steps to prevent similar tragedies in the future.” Hazing and suicide continue to be major issues affecting Armed Forces personnel. Suicides in 2012 broke record levels and media reports suggest incidents of hazing occur frequently. The Department of Defense Authorization bill and Velázquez’s amendment will now be considered in the Senate before being sent to the President to be signed into law. ###
06.13.2013	Washington, DC – An amendment authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-07) to curb hazing in the United States Armed Forces will be debated today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The measure is aimed at preventing tragedies like the one that befell Danny Chen, a native of New York’s 7th Congressional District. Chen, an Army private, was beaten and harassed by members of his unit, before he died in Afghanistan in 2011. “The brave young men and women who serve our nation abroad deserve respect and honor, not hazing and abuse,” Velázquez said. “While we can never bring Private Chen back, we can work to prevent similar tragedies in the future.” The amendment is being offered to broader legislation reauthorizing the Department of Defense. If adopted by the House and signed into law, Velázquez’s legislation would require representatives from each of the military branches and the Department of Defense to work with minority advocacy organizations in forming an oversight panel to prevent and respond to incidents of hazing. “It is critical the Armed Forces make hazing a priority at the highest levels of leadership,” Velázquez added. “This amendment would push the military to be proactive in how it addresses these incidents and, equally important, ensure training and education programs are in place to prevent abuses before they occur.” Hazing and suicide continue to be major issues confronting the U.S. military. While the Armed Forces do not keep official statistics tallying the number of hazing incidents, a record 350 active-duty personnel took their own lives in 2012. The Department of Defense Authorization bill reauthorizes all of the Armed Forces and governs how they operate for the next year. After being considered in the House the measure will need to be taken up by the Senate before being sent to the President to be signed into law. ###
06.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following statement on the House floor regarding sexual assault in the military and the National Defense Authorization Act: "Our Armed Forces face an epidemic that is tearing away at this institution's moral credibility. Millions of patriotic young women -- and men -- who consider donning our nation's uniform, must contend with the fact that our military has become a safe haven for sexual assault and rape. According to DoD's own estimates, on average 70 service members are sexually assaulted every day, with 26,000 of these incidents occurring last year alone. That represents a 30 percent increase from just two years before. "Keep in mind – this is Department of Defense data. It is likely this problem is even more widespread than these numbers suggest. "Equally troubling, only a sliver -- about 3% -- of these cases were prosecuted. The horrifying fact is that tolerance of sexual assault has become part of the Armed Forces' culture. In too many cases, victims are further harmed by a system that protects offenders in the name of the "chain of command." This is unacceptable. It must change, now. "The men and women who serve our nation sacrifice enough. They should not have to worry about sexual assault at the hands of superiors and colleagues. It is time for real steps that end this permissive culture, hold sexual offenders accountable and restore trust in our Armed Forces. I yield back." ###
05.20.2013	Washington, DC – In the wake of Superstorm Sandy, the Small Business Administration (SBA) is approving fewer than 25 percent of loan applications for New York’s small businesses, leaving many without the resources they need to rebuild. More than six months after the storm, applicants are also facing significant delays related to loan processing, while those that have been approved are unable to fully draw on the funding they have been promised. These findings are contained in a new report released today by Democrats on the House Small Business Committee, showing that thousands of New York’s businesses and residents are facing significant challenges securing disaster relief loans through the SBA, the federal agency charged with providing such assistance after disasters. As a result, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has requested that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) assess the SBA’s response and performance related to Superstorm Sandy. “Following Katrina, the SBA did take steps to improve its emergency response, but we’re nowhere near where we need to be,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the Committee’s top Democrat. “After natural disasters, local economies are often decimated and it is vital that the small business sector be revitalized quickly.” Data from SBA shows loan approvals at just 24 percent for all businesses affected by Sandy, including those in New York, Connecticut, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Maryland. In New York alone, the numbers were equally troubling. SBA had approved just 22% of small business loans. Nearly 4,400 local New York businesses had seen their disaster loans declined or withdrawn. The pace at which the agency is processing loans also lags. On average, the SBA is taking 46 days to process physical business loans, while processing times following Hurricanes Ike and Irene were closer to two weeks. Even among loans approved, disbursement of proceeds remains slow. Only 359 businesses have received their full funding. “For a business struggling after a Hurricane, getting an immediate infusion of emergency capital can make the difference between staying in business or going under,” Velázquez noted. “We need a better understanding of why the SBA is still taking so long to approve this assistance.” The report also suggests that the agency is not employing all the resources at its disposal when responding to Hurricanes. The pace at which personnel have been added to process loan requests has been slow and several private-public partnership initiatives that would help lessen the backlog of loan applications remain unused. “When disasters hit, it is critical that SBA operate at maximum efficiency,” Velázquez noted. “If there are things SBA has not done that would have helped more businesses weather these catastrophes, I intend to find out why SBA has not taken these steps and ensure similar mistakes don’t happen in the future.” The full text of the letter to GAO is available here and the Committee’s report is online here. ###
05.08.2013	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has introduced legislation, H.R. 1846 the “Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site Amendments Act,” which would expand the LES Tenement Museum’s National Park Service (NPS) designation by including its second historic site at 103 Orchard Street. The Museum’s first historic building at 97 Orchard Street has already been declared a “National Park Service Affiliate Site” in 1998. “Expanding the LES Tenement Museum’s National Park Service designation will help preserve this local source of history and culture for future generations,” said Velázquez. “This important local gem provides residents and visitors alike with a greater sense of our city’s heritage and I hope to see it grow in the future.” The Museum plans to open a new exhibit at 103 Orchard Street, presenting the stories of families who lived there after 1945, including Jewish Holocaust survivors, post-1965 Chinese families, and Puerto Rican migrants in the 1950s. “Already, the LES Tenement Museum is a valuable local resource and attraction,” Velázquez noted. “By building on its success, we can draw more visitors to our community creating additional opportunity for local businesses.” Prior to its designation as an affiliated side of NPS, the Museum’s historic site at 97 Orchard Street was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1994. The NPS designation has provided critical support for preservation efforts, education workshops and tours, and invaluable preservation expertise throughout the years. With more than 180,000 visitors every year, including 40,000 school children, the Museum has seen a visitor increase of 40% over the past five years. The Museum estimates the expansion would accommodate 50,000 additional people each year, including 12,000 city students. “I’m proud to support this valuable community institution and look forward to its continued growth,” Velázquez noted. ###
05.08.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement marking Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: "Those of us in New York City are especially aware of the valuable role that Asian Americans have played in strengthening our city, nation and local communities. As the Congressional Representative for Chinatown, I'm proud of the many contributions Asian Americans have made to our cultural and economic fabric. "On the economic front, there is a deep tradition of entrepreneurship among Asian Americans. Today, more than one million Asian American entrepreneurs generate $300 billion in sales, providing jobs for more than 2 million workers. In New York, this demographic is one of the leaders in new business creation and their ingenuity and hard work has proven critical to driving our local economic recovery forward. "Just as Asian Americans are helping spur economic growth, they also play an increasingly prominent role serving in our military. Although, Asian Americans make up 10 percent of New York City's population, they comprise 14 percent of local army recruits. We must continue honoring these heroes and recognizing the extraordinary sacrifices they make. "In coming years, Asian Americans will be only more important to our country's growth. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month provides us all an opportunity to reflect upon this community's many contributions and to celebrate its bright and promising future." # # # ###
04.26.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement regarding news that SUNY has withdrawn its proposal to close Long Island College Hospital: “LICH is a vital resource and its preservation will offer additional healthcare options for thousands of Brooklyn residents, many of whom are uninsured and underinsured. Keeping LICH operational not only means better care for some of our most vulnerable neighbors, but will also retain an important source of good paying local jobs. Going forward, I will continue pressing for a permanent solution that keeps this valuable institution open.” ###
04.23.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez spoke today at a press conference where she unveiled new legislation aimed at addressing a number of housing challenges brought on by Hurricane Sandy. Following are her remarks as prepared for delivery: "Superstorm Sandy ravaged our City, harming local businesses and working families. Low income New Yorkers were hit particularly hard. Wind and floods caused over $10 billion in damages to homes, businesses, and infrastructure. Hundreds of families were displaced from their homes. With FEMA housing assistance expiring soon, many of these families have no place to go, nor can they afford market-rate rents in their neighborhoods. The Safely Sheltering Disaster Victims Act provides rental assistance to struggling households displaced by Sandy so that they can find decent, affordable housing close to the city while their homes are repaired. "New York's public housing infrastructure was disproportionately impacted by Sandy – causing hardship for some of our most vulnerable neighbors. The damage was so bad in some units that over 170 households had to be relocated from their homes. The Safely Sheltering Disaster Victims Act would extend rental assistance to these families "If Sandy taught us anything it is how proper preparation can minimize damage and facilitate recovery efforts. I have authored the Public Housing Disaster Preparedness Act. This bill addresses many of these issues by providing direct guidance on how to correct these problems in future disaster relief efforts. "The bill clarifies what the expectations for public housing authorities (PHAs) are when assisting residents immediately following a natural disaster. Among other requirements, large PHAs must be prepared to: communicate disaster relief plans with residents; mitigate health and safety-hazards, like mold; restore critical utilities; ensure residents can access food and water; and relocate displaced residents in a timely manner. "Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) disaster plans must be transparent to the public and monitored for their effectiveness. At this time, many of these programs operate without sufficient oversight and transparency. The Public Housing Disaster Preparedness Act would correct this problem by requiring HUD to review and approve PHA disaster preparedness and relief plans as part of the authorities' annual plans. "Annual plans are publically available, increasing transparency of a PHA's disaster protocols and allowing the public to hold PHAs accountable to HUD if they are not properly followed. "Sandy also did enormous damage to NY's economy, destroying businesses and depriving working families of employment. Certain HUD funding recipients—PHAs and CDBG grantees—are required to provide training and hiring opportunities to low-income individuals under the Section 3 program. The Raising Employment in Affordable Communities and Homes (REACH) Act would increase the availability of jobs for these families by requiring these groups to develop and execute detailed Section 3 hiring and training plans. "The legislation I've introduced is already cosponsored by Reps. Jefferies, Rangel, and Serrano – and I intend to seek support from other Members of the delegation. While Sandy was a dark time, we also saw numerous examples of New Yorkers pulling together to assist one another during a difficult period. If we maintain that spirit of togetherness, we can recover from this storm stronger and better prepared for future disasters. We cannot forget what happened during Sandy and the need for recovery assistance. I will not let that happen and these bills are an attempt to keep those efforts going forward." ###
03.25.2013	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Passover Holiday: "As we observe this year's Passover, it is always a privilege to see members of the community help each other prepare for the Holiday. These community and family values are what make this celebration so special. This year, in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, it is more critical than ever that we all unite to care for our vulnerable neighbors. "Over the years, it has been my honor to work with our Jewish community on a range of issues and I look forward to continuing to advance our shared goals of strengthening and improving our community. My family and I wish you and yours best wishes for a safe and joyful Passover."
03.21.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) voted against House Republicans’ budget. Velázquez spoke in opposition to the budget yesterday. Her floor statement is below: “I rise in opposition to this ill-conceived budget. For working families, this budget could mean a tax hit of $2,000, making it harder for struggling New Yorkers to afford rent and put food on the table. “The GOP plan also shortchanges seniors, ending Medicare in ten years. Equally problematic, the Affordable Care Act would be repealed reducing health care assistance to 176,000 families in my district and preventing 68,000 young people in my part of New York from staying on their parents’ insurance. “We can also expect our economy to take a hit - with 2 million jobs vanishing next year alone. And for small businesses– this budget would mean losses. 16,000 small firms in my district would lose tax assistance when purchasing health care. And thousands of would-be entrepreneurs around the country will see technical assistance and other services dry up, preventing the creation of new startups and blocking job creation. “Mr. Speaker, budgets should be about priorities. The American people rejected these flawed priorities last year when they voted to reelect President Obama. I urge my colleagues to vote no so we can approve a budget that moves our nation forward, together. I yield back.”
03.13.2013	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the election of Pope Francis: “It is a source of pride to see the first election of a Pope from Latin America. Equally important, Pope Francis has a distinguished record of working to comfort and assist the poor, while personally leading a humble life inspired by Christ. Like all Catholics I am excited by his election and join in praying for him as he assumes his new role.”
03.04.2013	Washington, DC – According to a report released today by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business, New York City’s small businesses stand to lose $56 million as a result of the sequestration, which went into effect March 1st. For the City’s 150,000 small businesses, this would mean a shortfall in capital and credit, fewer federal contracts, and a drop-off in critical business assistance services. “It is undeniable that New York City’s small businesses will feel the effects of sequestration head on,” said Rep. Velázquez. “It means less loans, fewer federal contracts, and a sharp reduction in business counseling, resulting in lower growth and fewer jobs in all five boroughs.” The sequester will result in a $25 million reduction in SBA lending to the City’s small businesses, meaning that fewer entrepreneurs will be able to get the funds needed to start or expand a business. Beyond curtailing the SBA’s lending initiatives, the indiscriminate budget cuts would harm small firms that work for the federal government as contractors. In New York City, this would mean a loss of $158 million in contracting opportunities across all businesses, and $31 million for smaller firms. Additional cuts to SBA’s small business development programs, which assist companies in accessing the federal marketplace and securing assistance to start and grow their firms, would be significant. In New York City, the closure or reduction in hours of these centers would compound the impact of the sequester. “For New York City’s businesses, winning a federal contract, securing a loan, and being able to access counseling services can often make the difference between success and failure,” Velázquez noted. “The sequester means that small firms will have to look elsewhere for similar opportunities and assistance, which unfortunately will be extremely hard to come by.” In New York City, last year the SBA provided nearly 1,000 loans for almost $500 million dollars – giving small firms access to capital that they would not otherwise be able to secure. Local small businesses were awarded over 24,000 contracts for more than $453 million last year – affording them the opportunity to work for one of the world’s largest customers – the U.S. government. SBA-supported counseling centers, including Small Business Development Centers and Women Business Centers, are located throughout the City and help thousands of individuals become entrepreneurs each year. The full report may be downloaded here. # # # ###
02.28.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today hailed passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The House approved the legislation after rejecting a Republican amendment that would have prevented members of the LGBT community and undocumented immigrants from receiving assistance. "Reauthorizing this lifesaving measure is long overdue. The Violence Against Women Act ensures that thousands of abuse victims in New York and millions around the country have somewhere to turn when they are most in need of help. I am particularly pleased the House rejected discriminatory measures that would have stripped away protections for gay and lesbian abuse victims and undocumented immigrants." Yesterday, Velázquez spoke on the floor in opposition to the Republican amendment that would have gutted key provisions in the bill. The legislation, which was previously approved by the Senate, will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.
02.28.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) today at a press conference regarding the impact of sequestration on women. Rep. Velázquez’s remarks focused on the impact of the sequester on women-owned small businesses. Below are the text of her remarks: “Women-owned businesses are an economic powerhouse. At 8 million strong, women-owned firms make up a third of U.S. companies and generate well over 1 trillion in sales annually. These businesses are some of the most innovative – and unlike their corporate counterparts they don’t have an army of attorneys; they don’t have a gigantic sales team; and they don’t have ready access to the capital markets. Filling this void is the Small Business Administration – which fuels our nation’s commitment to women entrepreneurship. “The sequester has the potential to undermine this very promise by reducing SBA funding across-the-board. As a result, loans to women-owned small firms will be reduced by $250 million, translating to a decrease of 3,500 new jobs. This means that fewer women will be able to get the funds needed to turn their ideas – their dreams – into reality. “And when it comes to federal contracting, these programs are critical. Having never reached its measly 5 percent goal for women-owned businesses, the sequestration has the potential to massively set back what little progress has been made. A further $1.3 billion in small businesses contracts will be lost for women entrepreneurs, which will jeopardize up to 15,000 of their employees. These losses, when combined with the closure of nearly 80 entrepreneurial training and counseling centers – which give women the confidence, know-how, and skills to become entrepreneurs – will cause the nation to miss out on a key stimulus for job creation. “Given the challenges they have faced, women-owned businesses rely on these very programs to level the playing field. By slashing these initiatives, years of progress can be undone in an instant. And this is not only bad for women – but bad for the U.S
02.27.2013	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the House today regarding legislation to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. Velázquez criticized the House amendment to the bill for weakening the legislation and failing to protect all victims equally. Following are Velázquez's remarks: "Mr. Speaker, twice in two decades Members of both parties crossed party lines to reauthorize the 'Violence Against Women Act.' Yet, this week, we are considering a partisan bill that excludes some victims based on sexual orientation or immigration status. "Does abuse not 'count' if the victim happens to be a gay man or a lesbian? What if the victim is an undocumented worker? Here are some facts my GOP colleagues may be unaware of -- 40% of gay men experience domestic abuse as do 50% of lesbian women. For undocumented women, abuse rates are likely higher than the rest of the population -- but go unreported for fear of deportation. "Those are millions of people and thousands of New Yorkers who are being hurt. This legislation adds insult to their injury by basically saying "because of who you are, we won't help you." I hope my Republican colleagues agree that's not the message we want to send. Vote no on the rule and the underlying bill -- so we can approve a real 'Violence Against Women Act' that protects all victims equally." "I yield back." ###
02.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement in reaction to the President’s State of the Union speech tonight: “Tonight, President Obama laid out a bold vision for making our nation stronger, safer and more prosperous. As he said, it is critical that we renew the agreement that served this nation well for so long by promising economic security for those who work hard and play by the rules. “Helping our children pursue the American dream should be a cornerstone of this agreement. Ensuring the widespread availability of a quality education is critical for the future of New York’s working families. The President’s plan for reducing the cost of college will help thousands of working students in New York who are holding down a job, while simultaneously pursuing a degree. “Raising the minimum wage is another important element of this agreement. Working people across the country often juggle multiple jobs, while still struggling to put food on the table, make rent and pay their bills. I wholeheartedly agree with the President’s plan to not only raise the federal minimum wage, but index it to the cost of living. It is high time that we make this wage a living wage. “Beyond assurances of economic security, working families deserve to feel safe in their communities. I was glad to hear the President make gun violence a centerpiece of his remarks. New Yorkers have lost too many of our children to this epidemic and it is appropriate this issue is receiving attention from the highest level of government. “I was equally heartened that the President put the full weight of his office behind comprehensive immigration reform. The current system is indisputably broken. Not only does it fail to keep our country safe, but it unjustly and immorally tears families apart. It is my hope that 2013 can finally be the year when bipartisan progress is made on this vital issue. “Our nation has many challenges ahead of us, but I am convinced that working together we can overcome them. I applaud the President for setting priorities and making the case for how our nation should move forward. ”
02.08.2013	Washington, DC – As a potentially historic storm bears down on New York City, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) urged residents to prepare: "If Sandy taught us anything, it is the importance of preparing for extreme weather. I urge all New Yorkers to take prudent steps that will ensure they can ride the blizzard out safely. Equally important, we must all watch out for one another. In that regard, we should all check on our neighbors and ensure they have what they need, especially if they are elderly. "There are a number of resources available to learn how best to prepare for the storm. The Department of Homeland Security's https://www.ready.gov/winter-weather website has good tips on preparing for cold weather and heavy snowfall. Residents can find local resources including open shelters on the Red Cross' website at https://www.redcross.org/find-help. "The Governor's website, https://www.governor.ny.gov/, provides the latest on state preparations for the storm. The latest from the City can be found at https://www.nyc.gov/oem. NYCHA residents can find information about how public housing developments are responding to the storm on their website at https://www.nyc.gov/html/nycha/html/residents/snow-removal-cold-weather-tips.shtml "I urge all New Yorkers to be safe, drive cautiously- if they must drive at all - and take care of one another." ###
01.31.2013	Washington, DC – President Obama signed into law a $50 billion aid package for states impacted by Hurricane Sandy. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) praised the enactment of the bill, saying the funds were necessary to facilitate New York City's recovery. "This measure is badly needed," Velázquez said. "These funds will help our small businesses recover from economic damage, rebuild our transportation system and assist struggling homeowners and residents who have borne the brunt of this catastrophe." Among other provisions, the bill makes available $16 billion for Housing and Urban Development Department community block grants. $11 billion will go to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's disaster relief aid fund. New York and New Jersey transit systems will receive $10 billion to rebuild. "These funds will not only let our city recover, but also rebuild stronger and smarter, so that future storms do not have the same crippling impact as Sandy," Velázquez added. Included in the bill is an amendment authored by Velázquez that would help rebuild military cemeteries affected by the storm. Cypress Hills National Cemetery in Brooklyn had been damaged by debris and falling trees following the storm. The site is the final resting place for 20,000 fallen service members. Velázquez's amendment would set aside funding to repair the cemetery, New York City's only veterans cemetery. "Those brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice defending our nation deserve our honor and respect," Velázquez noted. "By caring for and maintaining this historic site, we can ensure future generations have a place to pay their respects to our fallen heroes." Sandy is widely being recognized as one of the worst storms to strike the northeast. It is currently blamed for 130 deaths and tens of billions of dollars in property damage.
01.21.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the President’s second term: “The re-election and second inauguration of President Obama provides us with great opportunity to address many of the challenges facing New Yorkers. By working together, I am confident we can improve health care for working families, reduce gun violence in our communities, accelerate our economic recovery and create well-paying jobs. “I look forward to a productive new Congress and the chance to work with the President on our shared goal of improving life for all Americans.”
01.16.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez released the following statement regarding the President’s new initiative to reduce gun violence. Velázquez also spoke today at a Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on the topic. “For those of us in New York’s 7th Congressional district, the tragedy of gun violence recently hit home with the death of Raphael Ward, a sixteen year old boy who was fatally shot in the Lower East Side. “The President should be commended for taking concrete steps to help curb the threat guns pose to our families. However, addressing a problem of this magnitude will require action at all levels of government and Congress must do its part as well. While there are powerful interests seeking to maintain the current broken system, I believe that by standing together and speaking with one voice we can help end gun violence in our communities.”
01.16.2013	Washington, DC –New Yorkers affected by Hurricane Sandy will soon receive badly needed resources from the federal government as last night the House of Representatives approved $9.7 billion in relief funding. Included with these resources were two policy initiatives advocated by Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “I’m pleased the House has approved this package of funding, which will help thousands of New Yorkers.” said Velázquez. “These resources will not only help our communities recover and rebuild, but also strengthen the city’s critical infrastructures against the threat of future storms.” One local landmark, Cypress Hills National Cemetery was damaged by debris and falling tress following the storm. The site is the final resting place for 20,000 fallen service members. One of Velázquez’s amendments, adopted by the House, would set funding aside to help repair the cemetery, New York City’s only veterans cemetery. “Military grave yards are sacred memorials and ensuring they stand the test of time is the least we can do for the brave men and women who sacrificed their lives in defense of our nation,” Velázquez said. “My amendment will ensure that we honor our nation’s heroes with dignity.” With the storm surge from Sandy having engulfed low-lying housing, flooding basements, common areas, and apartments, toxic mold has spread quickly in many apartment buildings throughout New York. Left in place, mold and mildew have been known to cause serious health problems for families. Velázquez was able to secure a commitment that the final bill would provide funding for removal of mold from York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) developments. “Mold can cause serious respiratory and other health issues,” Velázquez noted. “It is critical we protect working families by ensuring NYCHA developments are free of any mold that was brought in during Sandy.” The measures passed by the House must now be approved by the Senate before being sent to the President for his signature.
01.14.2013	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks today on the House floor, calling for an extension of unemployment insurance benefits: "Mr. Speaker, because of the House Republican Leadership's inaction, three days after Christmas, 127,000 New Yorkers were cut off from their jobless benefits. Every week in 2014, another 5,100 working families in New York lose unemployment compensation. These families are struggling to make ends meet and put food on the table. "This inaction not only harms dislocated workers who stop receiving a check in the mail, but it also slows economic growth. When families have to further cut back spending, there is a ripple effect. As households spend less on necessities like food and clothing, local businesses take a hit. Indeed, it has been estimated that failing to pass an unemployment insurance extension would cost our economy 310,000 new jobs. "Mr. Speaker, this could end today. Let's do what's right for working families and for the American economy. Let's reinstate unemployment insurance and let's do so now! I yield back." ###
01.09.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding Raphael Ward, a 16-year-old boy who was fatally shot in the Lower East Side on Friday. "My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Raphael Ward. Gun violence remains a tragic epidemic nationally and, right here, in New York City and the LES. We must pursue strategies at all levels of government – federal, state and local – that get these weapons off the street and make our communities safer. We cannot continue to allow our children to die in our communities. For too long, important legislation has been forced to the back burner. Now is the time to pass common sense gun control to help protect families and communities."
01.03.2013	Washington, DC – With the 113th Congress officially convening today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) introduced a package of six bills. The legislation touches a range of issue areas important to New Yorkers, including health care, retirement security and capital formation for small businesses. “With the reelection of President Obama and a new Congress, I look forward to an active legislative session,” Velázquez said. “While these bills are just a start, they address some of the key priorities facing New Yorkers.” Two new pieces of legislation authored by the Congresswoman focus on improving health outcomes for New Yorkers. The “Mobile Medical Homeless Health Improvement Act” would establish a new initiative within the Department of Health and Human Services. Clinics and hospitals could apply for funding to finance a mobile medical vehicle, which would provide health care for homeless people. A second measure would expand the availability of Health Information Technology and bring cutting edge medical services to low-income individuals and working families. “Improving health care outreach to homeless individuals can save lives and save our health care system money over the long term,” Velázquez noted. “Likewise, widespread adoption of Health Information Technology can improve the quality of care and make our health care system more efficient.” A third health care-related bill would ensure small suppliers of durable medical equipment are able to continue serving Medicare patients. That legislation builds on a similar bill of the Congresswoman’s that was previously enacted and enabled small clinical labs to continue receiving Medicare payments. As the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business, Velázquez has made access to capital for entrepreneurs one of her signature priorities. In that regard, she today reintroduced two measures to help small firms flourish. By establishing a new tax credit and changing leveraging limits, those two measures would create more options for small firms seeking credit and equity capital. “Small businesses account for more than half of all private sector employment in New York and are vital to our City’s economic recovery,” Velázquez said. “These bills will help unlock investment dollars for both small, growing firms and new startups, leading to new job creation.” In addition to her small business and health bills, Velázquez also reintroduced legislation aimed at making the retirement system fairer for retiring federal workers, by indexing their annuities to inflation. “Just as we need to create new jobs and economic opportunity for New Yorkers, we must ensure that older workers are economically secure when they retire,” Velázquez noted. “My bill will help civil servants like postal workers receive the retirement benefits they have earned.” In addition to being the top Democrat on the Small Business Committee, the Congresswoman is a senior Member of the Financial Services Committee and serves on that panel’s Housing Subcommittee. An active member of Congressional Hispanic Caucus, she has also been a vocal advocate for immigration reform. Today, she pledged to continue pushing for policies that benefit New Yorkers in the new Congress. ###
01.02.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today, calling on the House of Representatives to take up legislation providing relief for areas affected by Hurricane Sandy: “It is unconscionable that Congress would leave town without addressing the unprecedented damages from Hurricane Sandy. “Total damages for New York alone are estimated at more than $30 billion and have affected everything from housing to infrastructure to small businesses. Swift action is needed not tomorrow, not next week, but today. New Yorkers have already waited way too long for this help. At the top of the list is making sure people have a place to live. New York’s housing stock suffered nearly $10 billion in damages alone, punctuated by the flooding in Red Hook that left many homes under 5 feet of water. Reconstruction assistance for these residents is absolutely critical because without homes, there are no residents, and without residents, there is no economy. “Another problem that needs immediate attention is our infrastructure. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates New York City’s transit system, has suffered $5 billion in damages. The South Ferry-Whitehall Street subway station alone will require a $600 million restoration. As MTA chairman Joseph Lhota said, “South Ferry was destroyed. It wasn’t hurt. It wasn’t wrecked. It was destroyed.” These are the exact types of extraordinary disasters that federal disaster must be channeled to – and the time to do it is now. “Finally, we have to step in and provide assistance to small businesses. Loans have their place, but for many reeling under the weight of Sandy, more debt is just not the answer. New York’s business community has suffered more than $6 billion in damages, much of it to small businesses, which lack the resources to rebuild themselves. We must make it a priority to have the backs of these entrepreneurs – because without them, our communities will not be able to regain their full strength. “The House should immediately take up legislation that addresses these problems. There is bipartisan support for providing this relief and we cannot afford any further delay.” ###
12.17.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today: “In the wake of this unthinkable tragedy, it is time for a new national conversation about the role of guns in American life. The President was correct in his assessment that we can no longer tolerate these tragedies and in calling for swift action on this issue.” ###
12.11.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined fellow Puerto Ricans today in condemning the murder of Jose Enrique Gomez, a 34 year old publicist who lost his life in a gruesome attack in early November. Velázquez also took issue with the television gossip program 'La Comay', which had intimated in one its broadcasts that Gomez's death was due to his private life. The following may be attributed to Velázquez: "The loss of another one of our young people is a profound tragedy. This barbaric act has inflicted enormous pain on the Gomez family. Enrique's death has become a powerful symbol, mobilizing Puerto Ricans everywhere in calling for peace and an end to violence. I join that call for understanding. "Just as we are praying for the Gomez family and seeking peace, we will not accept the type of insinuation and heinous character attacks recently perpetrated by 'La Comay.' Now is a time to be respectful of those who knew and loved Enrique, not to profit from innuendo and hate speech. I join all those who are asking advertisers to refrain from supporting 'La Comay.' This program and its television station must be sent a clear message that irresponsible and hateful statements will not be tolerated." ###
11.20.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the current conflict in the Middle East: “Hamas’ ongoing rocket attacks on Israel are unacceptable. I stand with the state of Israel and support its right to self-defense.” # # #
11.15.2012	Washington, DC –A forum on Tuesday, November 20th will help New York City businesses learn about local and federal resources available to them in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, is hosting the event and says it will enable small firms to tap into various loan programs and other assistance that can help entrepreneurs get back on their feet after the historic storm. Numerous agencies, including the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the NYC Economic Development Corporation are expected to attend. WHO: Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez and other elected officialsU.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)Federal Emergency Management Assistance (FEMA)New York Business Development Corporation (NYBDC)NYC Department of Small Business Services (SBS)NYC Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC)Brooklyn Chamber of CommerceNYC Business SolutionsBrooklyn Small Business Development Center (SBDC) at NYC College of Technology WHEN: Tuesday, November 20, 20129:00 AM – 11:00 AM WHERE: Brooklyn Borough Hall Community Room209 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201(Between Court & Adams Streets) As the former Chairwoman and current Ranking Member of the House Small Business Committee, Velázquez has been instrumental in passing legislation to reform and improve the SBA’s disaster relief programs. # # # ###
11.14.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following statement today on the floor of the House of Representatives: "If Hurricane Sandy taught us anything, it is the importance of infrastructure to New York City and our nation. Right now, New Yorkers are struggling with day-to-day challenges, many of them without power. In certain parts of the metropolitan area, gasoline shortages continue presenting enormous difficulties. "But even as New Yorkers work to rebuild and recover for the short term, we cannot ignore long term problems. In many ways, the City of New York took a number of prudent steps that reduced damage and sped up recovery. However, it is painfully clear that more must be done in the future to ensure our nation's infrastructure can withstand assaults from Mother Nature. As Governor Cuomo said, 'We have a new reality and old infrastructures and old systems.' "We can start by protecting low-lying areas near the ocean -- like Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan -- with sea walls, bulkheads and flood gates. In other areas 'soft infrastructure' investments such as sand dunes and embankments can minimize flooding. Our electrical system needs to be hardened and protected. Other energy sources must also be safeguarded. Ensuring refineries and petroleum supplies do not fall victim to floods can prevent future fuel shortages. "Just as ensuring automobiles have fuel after disasters, other vital transportation arteries must be protected. Raising entryways to New York's subways could minimize flood damage to our subway system, ensuring our City gets back on its feet faster, after the next storm. "Constructing a storm surge barrier and implementing infrastructure changes like these will not be cheap. It has been estimated costs could run as high as $20 billion. But, let's remember, in this one storm alone, New York City suffered $26 billion in economic damage and losses. Sadly, the question is not if there will be future storms, but when. By investing in our infrastructure, now, we can prevent future economic damage, to say nothing of protecting our citizens from danger. "Not only will these investments protect our city from disasters down the road, but they can provide a much needed employment boost. New Yorkers are ready to go to work, strengthening our City for the long haul. Making these investments now, can create good paying jobs in the short term and reduce damage from future disasters over the long term. In New York we are ready to go to work, not only on New York's infrastructure, but also on our entire nation's. I yield back." ###
11.01.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) sent the following letter to President Obama today calling for quick and comprehensive assistance to all residents and businesses impacted by Sandy: November 1, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: It is estimated that Hurricane Sandy will result in up to $50 billion in damages. The storm has caused extensive physical destruction in several regions, leaving many with significant rebuilding costs. Compounding this challenge is the lack of electricity and clean water, which makes recovery all the more difficult. Like in so many disasters before, federal financial assistance provided by the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will play an essential role in the economic renewal of the region. Given this, it is critical that the federal government’s core disaster-related, financial assistance programs operate efficiently and are well-coordinated. First and foremost, outreach to affected businesses must be undertaken aggressively. This means making information available through a wide-range of venues, while recognizing that TV, radio, and the internet may not be accessible for the near-term. Service centers must also be accessible and located in areas that have suffered the greatest amounts of damage. One such area in need of a service center is the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, which had five feet of seawater, flooding many of its small businesses and residences. In addition, immediate resources should be made available to the Lower East Side of Manhattan. This community suffered significant flooding up to and past Avenue C, as well as the loss of a Consolidated Edison (Con Ed) substation, causing a widespread blackout in the area. With the diversity of those affected, it is also necessary that agency personnel are able to communicate in many languages, including Polish, Spanish, Korean, Mandarin, and Cantonese among others. Reducing confusion should be a focal point; FEMA and SBA must coordinate their application processes so that applicants are not perplexed regarding the need to be turned down for an SBA disaster loan in order to receive FEMA Other Needs Assistance (ONA). SBA partners, such as the Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) located throughout the region, can play a key role in providing this aid, as can the national SBDC network. Doing so will require the reprogramming of SBA funds, so that these partners have the resources they need. The agency also needs to rapidly process loan applications and provide small businesses with quick decisions. In fact, it has been estimated that over 40 percent of businesses that are damaged during a disaster do not recover – and a year later, closer to 60 percent will actually go under. Those that do receive prompt assistance, however, are more likely to survive. That is why tools such as the Immediate Disaster Assistance Loan program and the Expedited Disaster Assistance Loan program were put in place. If implemented, they can help speed immediate cash infusions into the hands of small businesses so that they can make much-needed repairs or meet unforeseen obligations. With the potential for a massive influx of loan applications, it is appropriate to draw on private sector partners to assist with disaster lending operations. Given the concentration of lenders in the New York City metropolitan area, this makes sense and will help mitigate potential loan backlogs, while reducing protracted processing times. Providing timely processing and loan application decisions will not only aid in the rebuilding efforts, but also allow business owners to consider other financing arrangements in the event that they are turned down for federal financial assistance. As a result, SBA must have sufficient human resources both in processing centers and on the ground to verify losses. Doing so will enable small firms to receive what they need – in a manner that maximizes their ability to recover. Would-be borrowers also need flexibility as far as loan terms, document requirements, and eligibility for financial assistance. This means deferring payments for existing SBA borrowers in the affected disaster areas, so that businesses do not face the twin challenges of rebuilding expenses, while trying to meet existing debt obligations. The SBA should also waive loan limits in order to help businesses that need large amounts of financial assistance, which will likely be commonplace in the areas affected by this storm. Further accommodations must be made during the application process itself, as the agency may find that many applicants have lost key documents and financial statements due to the storm. In these situations, SBA should provide maximum flexibility regarding documentation requirements. Ensuring that small businesses receive the assistance they need is absolutely critical to the long-term recovery of this region. Providing this support now will yield significant benefits in the medium- and long-term, including a more rapid return to growth and job creation. While we undoubtedly face many challenges before us, I know that America’s small businesses can count on your administration to stand by them and ensure they receive the help they need in a timely and efficient manner, which is absolutely essential to their viability. I thank you for your leadership in the response to this disaster. If you have any questions or would like to discuss these matters further, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Ranking Member, Committee on Small Business cc: Janet Napolitano, Secretary, Department of Homeland Security Karen Mills, Administrator, SBA Craig Fugate, Administrator, FEMA ###
10.30.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy: “In the wake of an historic storm that devastated New York City with record flooding and high winds, access to emergency services is critical. I urge all New Yorkers to use this list of emergency contacts to get the assistance they need to recover and rebuild. We must also remember to look out for each other and our neighbors, especially those who are most vulnerable, in this time of crisis.” Contact information for federal, state, and city emergency response programs, as well as many leading insurance companies, is listed below: Federal Disaster Relief Federal Emergency Management Administration: Residents and business owners who sustained losses can begin applying for assistance starting October 31st by registering online at https://www.disasterassistance.gov, by web enabled mobile device at m.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY). The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. EDT seven days a week until further notice. FEMA funds a number of assistance programs including rental payments for temporary housing for those whose homes are unlivable; grants for home repairs and replacement of essential household items; and unemployment payments up to 26 weeks for workers who temporarily lost jobs because of the disaster. Small Business Administration: After residents and businesses are registered with FEMA, they may apply for a disaster loan. SBA, not FEMA, provides low-interest loans to cover residential losses not fully compensated by insurance and loans up to $2 million for small businesses and most private, non-profit organizations of all sizes that have suffered property damage or loss of cash flow. Residents can apply online at https://www.sba.gov/content/applying-disaster-loan, or in person at any Disaster Recovery Center. To find the nearest location, please call 1-800-659-2955 (TTY: 1-800-877-8339) or e-mail disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Red Cross: The Red Cross provides for thousands of displaced residents through a network of emergency shelters. If you need assistance, you can find the nearest shelter by going to https://app.redcross.org/nss-app/ or by calling 1-877-733-2767. New York State New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES): The New York State DHSES provides leadership and support for efforts to respond to, and recover from, natural disasters and other emergencies. Please contact the Hurricane Sandy Helpline for New York State Residents at 1-888-769-7243 or 1-518-485-1159 or go to https://www.dhses.ny.gov/oem/event/sandy/sandy-info.cfm for more information. New York City Office of Emergency Management: The New York City Office of Emergency Management coordinates emergency response and recovery, and collects and disseminates emergency information. For the latest updates on utility and transportation service restoration or to find an emergency shelter location, please go to https://www.nyc.gov/html/oem/html/home/home.shtml or call 718-422-8700. NYC Small Business Services (SBS): NYC SBS provides helpful information for small business owners on what to do during and after Hurricane Sandy. Please go to https://www.nyc.gov/html/sbs/html/home/hurricane_sandy_businesses.shtml or call 311. Notify NYC: Notify NYC is the City of New York's official source for information about emergency events and important city services such as schools, utilities, and transportation. Please go to https://a858-nycnotify.nyc.gov/notifynyc/ or call 311 to register for updates. Utility Information ConEd: Customers can report downed power lines, outages, and check service restoration status by computer or mobile device at www.conEd.com. They also can call 1-800-75-CONED (1-800-752-6633). Private Insurance Allstate: Allstate is prepared and ready to respond quickly to Hurricane Sandy with approximately 1,100 claim personnel ready to help. Allstate customers who suffered damage can call 1-800-54-STORM (800-457-8676), go online to https://www.allstate.com/claims/report-claim.aspx or contact their agent to file a claim or receive additional information about the claims process. Claims personnel are available 24/7. Farmers: Farmers Insurance Group, including subsidiaries Foremost Insurance, 21st Century and Bristol West, are prepared to help customers in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Customers with damage should immediately contact their agent or call Farmers’ 24-hour-claims hotline, 1- 800-435-7764 for immediate assistance. Geico: Teams of GEICO claim adjusters have deployed to affected areas, and will remain there until they have resolved every hurricane-related claim. If you need to report a claim, please visit https://www.geico.com/claims/report/ or call 1-800-841-3000. Claims personnel are available 24/7. The Hartford: The Hartford Insurance Company has set up an catastrophe information center for its customers. Please call 1-800-243-5860 or go online to https://www.thehartford.com for more information. Travelers: Travelers has thousands of trained claim professionals countrywide, who are ready to help as soon as it is safe to enter the affected areas. Travelers insurance customers can find more information or report a claim online at https://www.travelers.com/claim/emergency.aspx or call 1-800-252-4633 for personal insurance or 1-800238-6225 for business insurance. ###
10.26.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding Hurricane Sandy: “With a potentially historic storm likely to affect all of the Mid-Atlantic region next week, it is vital New Yorkers make preparations to ensure their own safety. I urge all New Yorkers to have a plan in place for a worst case scenario. Equally important, we must look out for each other and our neighbors, especially those who are vulnerable such as our seniors.” Velázquez noted that additional information on how to prepare for dangerous weather can be found on the website of the New York City’s Office of Emergency Management here or on the Red Cross’ website here. # # # ###
08.01.2012	Washington, DC – A new report from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) suggests that a fire at a Cypress Hills food processing facility did not release dangerous toxins into the air. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), who requested the analysis, said the findings would bring important information to community members worried that Anhydrous Ammonia had contaminated the air following the recent fire. “All of us who live in and frequent the area were rightfully concerned that the recent fire could pose lingering public health concerns,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “In that regard, this most recent EPA study provides at least some reassurance.” Chloe Foods was a former food processing and perishable packaging facility that used ammonia in its refrigeration process. The plant caught fire on July 23rd and burned for more than 15 hours before the New York Fire Department was able to contain the blaze. The facility includes nine connected buildings that run between Atlantic Avenue and Fulton, Crescent and Euclid. In addition to being near local residences and businesses, the site is in close proximity to a commuter train. After hearing complaints about odors and eye irritation from local citizens, Velázquez contacted EPA and asked for them to investigate whether the fire had resulted in the release of toxins. Through its investigation, EPA was able to determine that all ammonia storage had been removed before the fire. Inspection of the previous storage locations showed no evidence of ammonia. Continued air monitoring in and around the facility also did not detect ammonia or other chemicals “Brooklyn residents certainly had good reason to be concerned about environmental effects in the aftermath of this fire,” Velázquez noted. “I am glad EPA followed up, but will continue to monitor the situation going forward.” The EPA’s full report can be found online at https://velazquez.house.gov/newsroom/2012/chloefoodsfire.html ###
07.17.2012	Washington, DC – Three community organizations that serve New York City veterans are receiving federal funding, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. Nearly $2.5 million in federal grants will flow from the Department of Veterans Affairs to organizations that assist veterans and their families with housing options. “Our troops make great sacrifices for the rest of us and we need to ensure that they are cared for while in the military, but also, after they reenter civilian life,” Velázquez (D-NY) said. “I’m pleased to see these resources made available for community groups that focus on helping low-income veterans and their families secure affordable, stable housing.” The funds are being made available to three groups that serve all five boroughs: the Institute for Community Living, Inc. and Services for the UnderServed in Manhattan and Samartian Village. All three organizations are planning to expand services and provide service to veteran households throughout the City. The organizations qualified for funding through the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSFV) initiative. “With this funding, we can put more veterans in touch with assistance and ensure fewer of these heroes end up homeless,” Velázquez said. It is estimated that 13% of veterans become homeless at one point throughout the course of year. In New York City, it is estimated that 3,500 veterans are homeless. The funding announced today is expected to extend services to close to 600 veterans, assisting them in securing housing and other basic necessities. “Those who risked their lives serving our nation deserve our respect and support when they come home,” Velázquez concluded. “There is always more we can do, but this funding is a good start in helping New York City veterans receive the help they need.” ###
07.11.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding legislation she opposed in the House that would have repealed the Affordable Care Act: "Because of health care reform, women are no longer discriminated against and charged higher premiums simply due to their gender. Millions of children with preexisting conditions will no longer be denied coverage by insurance companies that put profits before people's health. "Now, Republicans want to turn back the clock on these lifesaving changes. Rather than wasting time on legislation that would take health insurance from New York's working families, we should be focused on measures to create jobs and strengthen our economy." ###
06.28.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act: "The Supreme's Court's ruling is a victory for New Yorkers and all Americans. The Court set aside partisanship to render a fair and moral decision. Upholding the Affordable Care Act will mean that 80,000 uninsured residents in New York's 12th Congressional District will have access to coverage. Nationally, 2.5 million additional young adults up to age 26 now have health insurance through their parent's plan. 17 million children with preexisting conditions, who could otherwise be denied coverage, will no longer be turned away. Being a woman is no longer a preexisting condition or a justification for charging women more for coverage. "With the Affordable Care Act, we have strengthened our nation and laid the foundation for a fairer, more just and healthier society. Congress must continue moving forward to further strengthen and improve our health care system for working families." ###
06.25.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's ruling on Arizona's immigration law: "While I am pleased the Court struck down several of the constitutionally questionable provisions in this law, I remain concerned that it upheld elements that could still allow for racial profiling. Regardless, this issue is not going away. We must continue working for an immigration reform law that addresses these issues in a comprehensive manner." ###
06.15.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding a change in Administration policy ensuring deportations cease for young, undocumented immigrants: “The President’s announcement is a welcome step in the right direction. For too long, our broken immigration system has torn apart families and victimized young people who came to the United States as children. Now, it is incumbent on Congress to move forward with comprehensive immigration reform.” # # #
06.06.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) participated in a House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee hearing on the case of Jacob Ostreicher. While Velázquez does not serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee, she was invited to participate as she has followed Ostreicher’s case closely. Below is Velázquez’s opening statement from today: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Jacob Ostreicher’s case is a stark reminder of the importance of due process in our legal system. The right to a fair and speedy trial is a fundamental principle in American society. Our founders recognized that without this cornerstone of American law, the government could arrest and hold citizens indefinitely. “It has now been 370 days since Jacob was originally arrested. Yet, he has not been charged. The prosecution has not even presented any evidence of his guilt. While, initially, Jacob was to be released on bail, that decision was revoked. The judges in the case have been removed and currently no judge is presiding. “Meanwhile, Jacob remains locked up at Palmasola Prison in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. That notorious facility was designed to hold 1,000 prisoners, but is currently home to 3,500 people. Unlike U.S. facilities, this prison is essentially run by the prisoners. Guards provide food and make sure prisoners do not escape but do nothing to maintain order within the prison’s walls. Reports suggest that gangs control life inside the prison. At least once a month there is a “suicide” reported – and critics suggest many of these deaths may actually be murders. Jacob has undertaken a hunger strike to protest his unjust treatment and there are now very real health concerns about his continued detention. “While Jacob’s case presents important issues about how the U.S. protects its citizens abroad, we sometimes forget the human dimension to these cases. We should keep in mind Jacob is not only a businessman. He is also a Brooklyn native and a pillar in our local community. He is a devoted husband, the father of five children. He and his wife are blessed with eleven grandchildren. Today, I suspect we will hear testimony from his family, not only about the legal status of Jacob’s case, but also about the type of man he is and what his family has endured through this ordeal. “Equally important, it is critical that we understand what the State Department is doing on behalf of the Ostreichers. Today, it is my hope that Jacob’s family can share with us their experience of working with the State Department. I want to know what steps the State Department has taken that have already been effective and, more importantly, what more can be done to ensure Jacob sees justice. “How the United States protects the rights of its citizens who are unjustly detained abroad goes to the core of our values as a nation. The way we respond to nations that ignore fundamental legal and human rights reflects on all of us. It is my hope that this hearing will bring additional attention to Jacob’s case and illuminate what additional steps our government can take in pursing justice on his behalf.” # # #
05.31.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on the federal appeals court ruling finding elements of the Defense of Marriage Act to be unconstitutional: “Today’s ruling is yet another important milestone in our journey toward a more perfect union. The Court’s ruling makes clear that the time for repealing the Defense of Marriage Act is long past due. This backward thinking, discriminatory law remains a barrier to justice and should be eliminated.” # # # ###
05.18.2012	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives approved legislation authored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) aimed at assisting members of the military who have suffered from hazing incidents. The amendment is part of Velazquez’s “Service Member Anti-Hazing Act,” H.R. 5638. Velázquez introduced that bill in response to the case of Danny Chen, an Army private who passed away last year after being hazed by fellow soldiers in Afghanistan. “It is incumbent on all of us to ensure the young men and women who volunteer to serve our nation are treated with respect and honor,” Velázquez noted. “This amendment will help protect our troops from mistreatment.” The amendment authored by Velázquez would require each branch of the military to institute an expedited system allowing service members to be transferred when there are suspicions of hazing. Velázquez noted that victims of this abuse are often trapped in a dangerous situation, especially when their supervisors partake in the hazing or turn a blind eye to these problems. “It is disturbing that, even when instances of hazing are reported, there is such a lengthy process for an abused soldier to apply for a transfer, escape their tormentors and complete their service in another unit,” Velázquez noted. “While many steps should have been taken to save Danny Chen, it is highly likely that if Private Chen had swiftly transferred out of his unit after the hazing started, he would be with us today.” Earlier this year, Velázquez wrote the Inspector General of the Department of Defense calling for a swift and thorough investigation into the events surrounding Private Chen’s death. She was also invited to participate in an Armed Services Committee hearing regarding hazing issues where she pressed Pentagon officials on what the military is doing to curb hazing in its ranks. “I’ve followed Private Chen’s case closely, as well as the military’s response,” Velázquez noted. “Based on what we learned, I drafted this legislation and the amendment that passed the House, today.” The amendment passed as part of the National Defense Authorization Act, broader legislation to update all of the military’s programs. That bill now heads to the Senate where it must be voted on before being signed into law by the President. Velázquez pledged today to continue working for enactment of other provisions in the “Service Member Anti-Hazing Act.” “What happened to Danny Chen was a profound loss, not only for his family, but also for the entire Chinatown community and all of New York,” Velázquez said. “With this legislation, we can prevent future tragedies and help keep our troops safe.” ###
05.16.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement in opposition to Republican legislation reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act: “I rise in opposition to this legislation, which is an affront to women, their rights and their safety. It is worth noting that the Violence Against Women Act was originally passed under a Republican Congress. Its provisions that protect immigrant women passed in 2000 and 2005-- again during Republican majorities. “Yet, today, we are voting on legislation that would gut these protections, delivering women seeking help into the hands of their abusers – endangering their safety and their lives. “Immigrant women are disproportionately impacted by domestic violence. One study from New York City found that 51 percent of domestic partner homicide victims were foreign-born. Other research has suggested that, among undocumented Latina women, the rate of battering is as high as 34%. For immigrant women, there can be language barriers preventing them from seeking help. In many cases, abusers may try to use the threat of deportation to prevent their victims from leaving. “The Violence Against Women Act is designed to help those who are most vulnerable and who need assistance. Instead, the provisions being offered by the Majority, today, would make it harder for those who have been battered to escape abuse and find safety. This legislation weakens confidentiality protections that prevent abusers from knowing their victims are seeking help. Needless, duplicative interviews with DHS would make it harder for those who are abused to secure assistance through the immigration system. The legislation would also make it more difficult for those cooperating with law enforcement to avoid deportation. Collectively, these provisions effectively cut women off from help, making it harder for them to avail themselves of the legal process.” “Make no mistake: despite what our Republican colleagues say, these provisions will not reduce immigration fraud. That argument is a red herring. Indeed, there is not one shred of evidence suggesting female immigrants are misusing the Violence Against Women Act. “How can we turn our back on women who need assistance? What kind of a message does it send to pass this legislation? Are we saying to those who suffer abuse they do not “count” because they are undocumented? “I say to my colleagues – let us send another message. Reject this legislation. Pass a real Violence Against Women Act that does not divide us by playing politics, but extends help to women who need it. I yield back.” # # #
05.10.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented on the President’s announcement that he supports same-sex marriage: “While the President’s heart has always been in the right place, I am pleased to see that his thinking has evolved to embrace this fundamental human right. The President’s announcement is an overdue, but very welcome step. With his commitment to reaffirming this basic right, our nation has taken one more step on our journey toward equality for all Americans.” ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced new legislation designed to curtail hazing in the military and protect servicemen and women from abuses. The legislation comes following the death of Private Danny Chen, an Army soldier from Velázquez's district who suffered mistreatment by members of his unit, while serving in Afghanistan. "The brave young men and women who volunteer to serve our country deserve respect and honor, not abuse," Velázquez noted. "While we can never bring Danny Chen back, we can at least work to ensure other families do not have to endure similar tragedies in the future." The bill, H.R.5638, the "Service Member Anti-Hazing Act", takes a multi-prong approach to prevent hazing. With a focus on diversity training and requiring each branch of the military to proactively implement an anti-hazing policy, the bill would make addressing hazing and discrimination a priority. "It is critical that all military personnel learn from day one of their training that diversity makes us stronger," Velázquez noted. "Education is key to stopping future incidents and ensuring minorities don't suffer from abuse when they volunteer to serve." In addition to preventing hazing in the future, the bill takes a number of concrete steps that would help those who have been hazing victims. By installing an expedited transfer process for personnel who have suffered hazing, the bill would help ensure victims are able to leave units where they are treated unfairly. In addition, the legislation improves the reporting processes for incidents and requires systematic data collection on the scope of the problem. "When a young man or woman is suffering from unfair treatment at the hands of their superiors, they need to be able to contact someone for help and, when appropriate, be transferred somewhere safer," Velázquez noted. "It is also important we understand how widespread hazing is in order to develop sound strategies for tackling this problem." Earlier this year, Velázquez wrote the Department of Defense, requesting a swift and through investigation into the events surrounding Danny Chen's passing. She also was invited to participate in a House Armed Services Committee hearing examining hazing in the Armed Services. Based on that hearing as well as other information pertaining to the Chen case, Velázquez drafted the current bill, which will be officially introduced when the House reconvenes this week ###
05.01.2012	Washington, DC – Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, $8 million in federal funds is flowing to two Community Health Care Centers in New York, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. The Charles B. Wang Center in Chinatown and Sunset Park Health Council, Inc. in Brooklyn, are receiving grant funding thanks to the historic health care reform law that was enacted in 2010. “Community Health Centers are a proven model of delivering quality care to vulnerable populations that otherwise have few medical options,” said Velázquez. “The Affordable Care Act, which I was proud to support, wisely invested in these institutions, improving health care in our local neighborhoods.” Both facilities are receiving the grant money to perform capital improvements that will allow them to improve care and serve more patients. The Charles B. Wang Community Health Center serves New York’s burgeoning Asian American population with culturally relevant care. With Chinese American New Yorkers twice as likely to be uninsured, the health center in Chinatown offers a vital link for patients who often have few alternatives. The facility is receiving $3 million in federal grant funding. “These funds will mean more working families in Chinatown receive preventative care, catching ailments early and addressing health problems in the community,” Velázquez noted. “I am proud to see these resources invested in an institution that already does so much to ensure quality health care is available in lower Manhattan.” Sunset Park Health Council, Inc., which is based in Brooklyn, is receiving $5 million. Operated by Lutheran Family Health Centers, in partnership with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, the program serves homeless individuals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, and Staten Island. “Sunset Park Health Council serves some of our neighbors who are most in need of medical assistance,” Velázquez noted. “With these funds, this center will be able to expand its footprint, assisting more New Yorkers with preventatives and lifesaving care.” The announcement of funding comes as part of $41 million in grant funding being made available throughout New York. Already, the Affordable Care Act has supported the construction and renovation of 190 health center sites and the creation of 67 new health center sites across the country. “If we are going to expand the reach of health care to those most in need of assistance, Community Health Centers will be central to that effort,” Velázquez noted. “I’m pleased to see New York receiving its share of these critical investments, which will help meet working families’ health care needs.” ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following statement in opposition to H.R. 4628, Republican legislation that would prevent a rise in student loans by drastically cutting health services for women and children: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this legislation, which would deprive women in need of vital health services. All of us -- on both sides of the aisle -- recognize the need to prevent student loan interest rates from doubling to 6.8 percent. But this bill tackles this problem in exactly the wrong way – depriving women of preventative care aimed at stopping cervical cancer and stopping low income children from receiving life saving vaccinations. “For the working families of New York, this legislation robs them of access to quality health care. With this bill, we are saying that for a young person from a working family to afford college, his or her mother must also forego vital medical care. “Preventing a rise in student loan rates is critical for our young people. With millions of students graduating into a difficult job market now is the time for serious solutions that keep these loans affordable – not the time to use this problem as a political football. “The President has said this bill is dead on arrival, so why are we wasting time debating it? We can and must find a better solution that keeps these rates low without harming working families. “Let us reject this bill and craft legislation that has a chance of being signed into law. I yield back.” ###
04.26.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding news that Bushwick Community High School and Grover Cleveland High School have been removed from the federal turnaround list: “Bushwick Community and Grover Cleveland High School are valuable community institutions that help young people, who have often faced difficult circumstances, attain academic success. News that they are no longer in danger of being closed is a great development for our entire City. We must continue working to ensure all students in New York have access to a quality education.” ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor in opposition to House Republicans’ budget proposal: “I rise in opposition to this budget, which will slash the safety net our seniors and working families count on in order to steer tax cuts to the super wealthy. As New Yorkers struggle with rising rent, food and health care costs, now is not the time to squeeze working families in order to provide tax giveaways to the most fortunate among us. “This budget would mean deep cuts to the Supplement Nutritional Assistance Program, which provides food assistance to 1.8 million New Yorkers. For students, looking to secure an education, this budget would mean drastic cuts to higher education funding, meaning higher costs for students. New York’s small businesses would see federal programs they rely on for access to credit and technical assistance reduced by $80 million – exactly the wrong direction to go as we seek to hasten our economic recovery. “Nowhere does this budget fail our nation more than in the area of health care. Medicaid would be slashed by $810 billion, meaning disabled people, the working poor and low income children would lose out. “For our seniors, who have worked hard their entire lives, this budget would mean turning our back on the Medicare guarantee for the first time, pushing the 74,000 Medicare recipients in New York’s 12th district into an untested, unreliable voucher system. Let’s be clear – if you vote for this budget you are voting to end Medicare as we know it. “This budget repeatedly chooses millionaires and billionaires over working families. Those are not American values, they are not New York values and we should reject them. Vote no. I yield back.” # # #
03.23.2012	Washington, DC – The House Committee on Small Business today approved legislation aimed at helping women-owned firms win government contracts and create new jobs. The bill, H.R. 4203, was sponsored by Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), the top Democrat on the Small Business Committee. It takes a series of steps to strengthen the Women’s Procurement Program, an initiatives that was created in 2000 through separate legislation Velázquez authored. “The federal government can be a great customer, providing a steady flow of revenue and enabling small firms to prosper and add employees,” Velázquez noted. “For too long, women-owned firms have been locked out of these opportunities, and we need to ensure the procurement process is fair to women entrepreneurs hoping to become vendors for federal agencies.” The nation’s 7.8 million women-owned businesses make up 30 percent of all businesses across the country and generate $1.2 trillion in revenue each year. In New York City, more than 305,000 women-owned enterprises contribute to the local economy. While New York’s women-owned businesses already receive $63 million in federal contracts annually, overall, these businesses still lag far behind in terms of securing government business. Federal agencies have a goal of ensuring 5 percent of their contracts go to female entrepreneurs, but that benchmark has never been met. To address these problems, the legislation would give contracting officers new tools to work with women-owned businesses, streamline the Women’s Procurement Program to help more women-owned businesses join the initiative and remove restrictions that have limited women from participating. “Women-owned businesses are the fastest growing sector of our economy, but currently account for less than four percent of federal contracts,” Velázquez said. “This legislation helps contracting officers channel federal projects to female entrepreneurs.” Contracting with small businesses and women-owned enterprises carries with it benefits for the broader economy. Not only do small companies provide excellent goods and services for the federal government, but they are more likely to bring on more employees, creating additional economic opportunity. “When a growing, woman-owned business wins federal work, they are more likely to hire and create jobs,” Velázquez noted. “By bringing more female-owned businesses into the federal marketplace, we can spur job growth and accelerate our economic recovery.” The legislation was approved in Committee by voice vote with bipartisan support. It now heads to the full House for consideration before it can be taken up by the Senate and signed into law. ###
03.21.2012	Washington, DC – On Thursday, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) will participate in a Congressional hearing on hazing in the U.S. military. Previously, the Congresswoman has been active in demanding that the Army investigate the death of Private Danny Chen, a New York native who died after being hazed by members of his unit. The Chen case resulted in charges being brought against eight soldiers in his unit. “Not only do we need to get to the bottom of what happened to Danny, but it is important that we have a full understanding of how widespread hazing is in the Armed Forces and what is being done to address it,” Velázquez noted. “Only when we have a grasp on the full scope of the problem can we prevent future hazing incidents.” Thursday’s hearing is being conducted by the House Armed Service Committee’s Subcommittee on Military Personnel. Members of Congress are expected to ask questions of high ranking military officials regarding what practices are in place to prevent hazing incidents. While not an official member of that panel, Velázquez requested that she participate in the hearing because of her connection to the Chen case. “This is an opportunity to hear directly from representatives in all branches of our armed services,” Velázquez said. “In the Chinatown community, we’ve seen firsthand the devastating consequences of hazing. I want to know exactly what the Pentagon is doing to tackle hazing and what culturally sensitive steps they are taking to address this problem.” Velázquez had previously written the Department of Defense Inspector General, requesting a comprehensive investigation into events surrounding the death of Danny Chen. She has also pressed the Army to release autopsy results to Chen’s family. The Armed Services Committee hearing is scheduled for tomorrow, March 22nd, at 1 p.m. It is being held in room 2212 of the Rayburn House Office Building. ###
02.16.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks today at a press conference regarding the 47th anniversary of the Selma-Montgomery marches and an upcoming march, this year, to commemorate that civil rights milestone: “’We are gathered here today, almost five decades after the original Selma to Montgomery marches. I’m proud to join arms with so many friends and colleagues – even some of those who marched, bled and risked their lives to make our Union more perfect. The upcoming march will commemorate and honor those who sacrificed so much 47 years, ago. But, this event will not only look back on past accomplishments – it will also highlight injustices we confront today. “It is a sad irony that, as preparations are underway for this march, the most oppressive anti-immigration law in history is on the books in Alabama. The backward thinking law, HB56, is aimed at regulating every single element of a person’s life. It requires police officers to routinely check the identification of anyone who ‘looks’ like an immigrant. “Now, I don’t know what an immigrant ‘looks’ like. I was born in Puerto Rico – part of the U.S. But, I wonder if the authors of this bill would have me stopped on the streets of Montgomery or Selma to demand my papers. “Schools are checking and reporting the immigration status of their students. On the first Monday HB 56 went into effect 2,285 Latino students - out of 34,000 in the state - did not show up to school. Since when do we persecute children in this country? HB 56 is a giant step backwards for civil rights and for justice in this country. “Just as we face new threats in the form of harsh, anti-immigration laws, the tired, old tools of voter suppression are reemerging. Last year, 34 states introduced legislation requiring photo IDs for one to be able to vote. The legislation was enacted in eight: Kansas, Mississippi, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Wisconsin and, yes, Alabama. These laws hearken back to the dark days of Jim Crow laws. While the mechanics of how they work may be different the goal is the same: disenfranchising certain Americans from the vote. “We’re not being fooled -- the intent is not preventing voter fraud. The objective is marginalizing certain people – African Americans, Latinos, young voters, and the poor. Make no mistake -- these are the well worn instruments of oppression that have been used time and again by the powerful to maintain their status above the vulnerable. “Forty seven years ago, brave men and women – black and white – risked their lives to defend the principle that all men are created equal. Today, we are here to reaffirm their sacrifice, to honor those who were there -- and to say the work continues. “Today, oppression may come in the form of anti-immigration laws, but it is still wrong. The new policy may be photo ID requirements for voting, something more subtle than Jim Crow laws. But the goal of voter suppression remains reprehensible. “Yet, just as there were brave Americans willing to stand up in 1965, we are all willing to continue the fight, today. We stand here -- black, white, Asian and Latino -- to say with one voice -- that inequality will not stand. Injustice will not prevail. The struggle goes on. The march continues… And we will never allow our nation to go back!” ###
02.16.2012	Washington, DC – Small businesses in New York and around the country may soon have additional tools to market their products abroad if Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has her way. As the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business, Velázquez today introduced H.R. 3976, new legislation aimed at facilitating the participation of small firms in international trade. The measure, entitled the “Enhancing Exports through Entrepreneurship Act of 2012”, creates new opportunities for entrepreneurs looking to market their products abroad. “Selling American goods and services overseas translates directly into good-paying jobs here at home,” Velázquez said. “Many entrepreneurs would like to compete globally, but find it difficult to take the first steps. This legislation offers resources they need to start selling and marketing their products internationally.” Many provisions contained in the legislation are the product of a small business exporting workshop the Congresswoman hosted in the Lower East Side this past November. During that session, a number of New York entrepreneurs discussed how costly it is for small firms to begin exporting. Hurdles like shipping expenses, market research and compliance costs often dissuade small companies from competing globally. H.R. 3976 would assist New York City firms with overcoming these barriers by offering tax credits to offset the costs of exporting to foreign countries. Under the bill, small firms can qualify for tax credits worth up to 25 percent of such expenditures, potentially saving them hundreds of thousands of dollars. “For small companies that are starting to market abroad, the upfront costs are significant,” Velázquez noted. “By providing targeted tax relief and new financing options, we can help entrepreneurs bridge the gap between when they begin selling their product abroad and when their overseas ventures pay for themselves.” Small businesses interested in exporting their products would also enjoy new financing options through the legislation. Under the bill, the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation would boost their lending and investment to small firms. Over the last five years, the Export-Import bank made more than $750 million available to New York’s small businesses seeking to market their products abroad. Velázquez’s legislation would expand and build on those types of investments. “Access to capital is always a challenge for small companies, but for businesses that are taking on the new risk of shipping their product into new, foreign markets, it can be particularly daunting,” Velázquez noted. “With this bill we’re telling firms intent on exporting their product: we will ensure you have viable financing options.” In addition to assisting small firms with revenue and capital needs, small businesses would benefit from technical assistance provisions in the bill. By making export-related information available through local resource centers like Women’s Business Centers, SCORE Chapters and Veteran Business Outreach Centers, entrepreneurs would easily obtain information such as demand for various goods and tariff schedules. With 95% of consumers living outside the U.S., foreign markets present significant opportunities for U.S. firms. Already, trade is a vital source of jobs and commercial activity in New York with the NYC metropolitan area accounting for $70 billion in exported merchandise annually, the most of any metropolitan area in the country. Small businesses currently account for about 30 percent of U.S. exports and H.R. 3976 would help more small firms compete globally, find new customers and create jobs domestically. ###
01.23.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union address: “The President’s remarks outlined an economy that can provide us prosperity for the long term by laying solid foundations in the areas of American manufacturing and American energy, honing the skills of American workers and renewing our commitment to the values of shared sacrifice and gain. “His address made clear we must do more to create jobs and spur economic growth. Our nation’s economy is expanding again, having added 3.2 million private sector jobs over the last 22 months. That’s a solid start, but for too many New Yorkers we still have a long way to go. It is my hope Congress will follow the President’s lead and do everything possible to boost job growth in our communities. “Even before the collapse of 2008, the underpinnings of our economy had been eroding for decades. The wealthiest in our society had seen their incomes skyrocket, while average New Yorkers’ paychecks stagnated. At the same time, everything from food to rent kept getting more expensive. If we are truly going to build an economy for the future, addressing this challenge must be a centerpiece of our strategy. I was pleased to see the President put this issue front and center and I look forward to hearing more about his ideas for helping working families.” ###
12.21.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on charges that were filed in the case of Private Danny Chen: "The announcement of these charges provides further proof of our community's concern that Private Chen's death was not a simple suicide. There's clearly more going on here and Danny's family needs to know exactly what happened. For these reasons, I've asked the Department of Defense Inspector General to undertake a comprehensive investigation and requested that the Army supply Private Chen's family with the autopsy report. This is just the beginning. We won't rest until the truth comes out and those involved are held accountable." ###
12.20.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today during debate on the House floor over legislation to extend the payroll tax holiday: “In less than two weeks, taxes are set to rise, cuts to Medicare payments will occur, and emergency unemployment will lapse. With the economic security of so many Americans at stake, we cannot allow this to happen. Until an acceptable long-term solution is offered, it would be irresponsible to forego a short-term extension that enables small firms and the American people to move forward with our economic recovery. “Almost 12 million Americans currently rely on unemployment. Without action, nearly 2.5 million of them will lose their benefits in just two months. At a time when we should be providing them a leg-up, this Republican Congress has continually failed to provide middle-class Americans the assistance they require. “And, now, due to the Republican leadership blocking a two month extension, 160 million hardworking taxpayers are faced with a tax increase. “We have a modest, bipartisan solution before us. While it certainly does not address all these problems, it can provide some help at a time when it is desperately needed. The House should consider and pass this extension, immediately.” ###
11.18.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the House floor today regarding the Republican so-called "Balanced Budget Amendment." Following are her remarks: "I rise in opposition to this misguided amendment, which will visit harm on working families, prevent government from responding to crises and cripple the U.S. economy. Under this amendment, it would become difficult to raise the debt ceiling, putting our country at greater risk of default. It is alarming that, so shortly after averting the most recent danger of a default, the authors of this amendment would endanger our nation's credit, so directly. "Equally disturbing, should a war, domestic crisis or natural disaster strike, our government could find its hands tied, incapable of responding, swiftly. When crises occur, Congress must have the flexibility to respond -- it is shortsighted and dangerous to cede this authority from the legislative branch. "Not only would this amendment effectively slow our response to future catastrophes, but it would also undercut our current economic recovery --eliminating 15 million jobs. The fact is, if you like 9% unemployment, you will love this amendment. "Our government has, in the past, been able to balance its books and create surplus. When President Clinton left office, we had a $5 trillion surplus. However, an unprovoked war, coupled with tax cuts for the wealthy, erased this windfall and led to our current fiscal problems. "If we truly wish to tackle the deficit, the most effective thing we could do is create new jobs. In the 1990s, economic prosperity helped drive deficits down. Rather than wasting this institution's time on a cheap political stunt -- which has zero chance of becoming law -- we should create opportunity and work to restore the American dream. That is a deficit reduction plan all of us could support. "Vote no on this amendment. I yield back." ###
11.02.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today introduced legislation aimed at making healthy foods more available for New York’s working families. H.R. 3291, the “Healthy Foods for Healthy Living Act,” would enable community based organizations such as schools, day care centers, food banks and senior centers to expand their stock of fresh fruits and vegetables. With obesity on the rise, the legislation is designed to address growing health problems like diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, all of which are linked to unhealthy eating. “Too often, New Yorkers do not have ready access to nutritious foods that are needed for a healthy lifestyle,” said Velázquez. “Ultimately, this legislation is about empowering families to make healthier food choices, so they live longer.” In New York City, obesity is epidemic: more than half of adults in the city are overweight or obese. Data show that obesity begins early in life: nearly, 1 in 5 kindergarten students in New York is obese. One cause of these growing health problems is lack of access to healthy food options. According to the City, 3 million New Yorkers reside in areas that are underserved, lacking adequate access to fresh fruits and vegetables. “For working parents, seniors and low income families, it can be a significant burden to travel across the City simply to get the food they need to stay healthy,” Velázquez noted. “By expanding the availability of nutritious food in low-income communities, we can help New Yorkers lead healthier lives.” Beyond making healthy eating a priority, Velázquez’s bill would encourage prevention and treatment for obesity, by expanding Medicare and Medicaid coverage of these services. By making nutrition education, stress testing and certain exercise treatments eligible for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, the bill would further encourage physicians to help tackle obesity issues. “Many obesity-related conditions are largely preventable through the right diet and exercise,” said Velázquez. “It is much less expensive to prevent these diseases before they take root, rather than waiting to treat them later in life.” H.R. 3291 has been referred to the Committees on Agriculture, Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means. The bill is the latest effort by Velázquez to promote healthy eating and builds on legislative work in previous years to expand access to fresh fruits and vegetables. # # # ###
10.21.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on the President's announcement that U.S. troops will fully exit Iraq by the end of the year: "The full withdrawal of our brave men and women from Iraq is long overdue and I am pleased to see the day has finally come. Now, it is time to focus our efforts on bringing U.S. forces home from Afghanistan swiftly and safely." ###
10.20.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez joined other local officials and members of the business community today in announcing the commencement of renovation work on Federal Building #2 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The former federal facility has sat dormant for years, but, thanks to a new public-private partnership, is being redeveloped into a light manufacturing and retail business space. Velázquez hailed the project as an important step that will result in greater local economic opportunity. "Renovating and reusing facilities like Federal Building Number 2 not only creates good jobs, but, over the long term, can also attract additional commerce to an area," said Velázquez. "Sunset Park is a walk-to-work community and the majority of the industrial jobs created by this project will employ local residents, right here, in our neighborhood." Under the plan for the building's redevelopment, the site will be transformed into a modern industrial center. Once complete, this new industrial space is expected to house businesses employing 1,300 New Yorkers. "The industrial sector of New York accounts for 16 percent of our economy," said Velázquez. "Creating space to accommodate industry is vital to restoring our City's prosperity. " Velázquez also noted that as part of the agreement for revitalizing the building, local and minority-owned businesses will be tapped for the renovation efforts, generating additional local economic activity. Four hundred construction jobs will stem from work repairing the building's roof, windows and other infrastructure. "This deal has been structured in a way to ensure that the maximum benefit flows to the local community," noted Velázquez. "By finding innovative ways to better leverage federal resources, we can tear down barriers to progress while building ladders of economic opportunity." Federal Building No. 2 was originally built by the Department of the Navy in 1916. It has sat unused since the Food and Drug Administration stopped utilizing the space ten years ago. Velázquez has worked with colleagues in Congress and the New York City Economic Development Corporation to see that the building is redeveloped for light industrial use. ###
10.19.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today announced new legislation that would expand employment options for Americans residing in public housing. The "Affordable Communities Employment Act" (ACE Act) would improve how public housing agencies use funds they receive from the federal government, maximizing employment for public housing residents. With the unemployment rate for public housing residents reaching 27% (according to the Community Service Society), Velázquez noted that the legislation would be vital in restoring prosperity to New York. "President Obama and Democrats have put forth a number of proposals to fuel job growth and put Americans back to work," Velázquez noted. "This legislation builds on those proposals, helping low-income Americans secure job training and employment." Under the ACE Act, public housing authorities that receive funding from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would ensure more of their capital improvement expenditures go to low-income and very low-income individuals. In addition, small businesses operated by public housing residents would be able to qualify for these contracts, thereby creating additional economic activity. The New York City Housing Authority receives $300 million annually from HUD. Under the proposed bill, 1,000 new job opportunities would be created for New York City public housing residents, alone. "By better leveraging how federal funds are spent in support of housing, we can tear down the barriers to economic empowerment and build ladders of opportunity in our communities," Velázquez said. "Federal housing resources can be a powerful tool for creating jobs and providing hope to some of our neighborhoods hardest hit by the recession." President Obama's American Jobs Act includes proposals to expand job training for low-income individuals. The ACE Act builds on that effort by incentivizing public housing agencies to offer job training and education to dislocated workers residing in public housing. "For New Yorkers to reenter the workforce, they need access to new, marketable skills," Velázquez noted. "With this bill, we can create opportunity for Americans living in public housing, while helping our businesses find more talented, qualified workers." Velázquez announced the legislation at a press conference today where she was joined by leaders of the New York City Council and a range of advocacy groups. As a senior Member of the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, Velázquez has been a leader in Congress on housing issues. ###
10.13.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today introduced new legislation, H.R. 3161, that would help raise awareness about ovarian and cervical cancers. The “Ovarian Cervical Cancer Awareness Act of 2011,” would focus educational efforts for gynecological cancers on these two most deadly conditions, empowering women with information to help protect their health. “These cancers are treatable with early detection and diagnosis, but every year thousands of women die because they didn’t receive timely care,” Velázquez said. “By empowering women with actionable information, we can catch cases earlier and save more lives.” The legislation builds on “Johanna’s Law,” an already successful educational program related to gynecological cancers. By focusing resources and efforts on the most deadly subcategories of this disease, the bill aims to save women’s lives. The Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention estimate that there will be 22,000 new cases of ovarian cancer and 13,000 of cervical cancer this year alone. In addition to focusing existing public resources on raising awareness about these two types of cancer, the legislation mandates that information be targeted toward low income women. “Too often, we see low income women suffering from health disparities, due to a lack of information,” Velázquez noted. “It is important we raise awareness among those in vulnerable populations, who might not have access to the same level of care as more affluent groups.” Velázquez has been a strong advocate for promoting education about cancer screenings. In March, she partnered with Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn to promote free colon cancer screenings in Brooklyn, a condition that disproportionately impacts the Latino community. “When it comes to cancer, information is power,” Velázquez added. “By giving New Yorkers the knowledge they need, we can combat these deadly diseases, reduce mortality rates and save lives.” ###
10.06.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today introduced new legislation, H.R. 3114, which would provide disadvantaged youth with the opportunity to serve their communities and acquire valuable job skills. The bill, the “Civic Corps Jobs Act of 2011,” would reduce recidivism among juvenile offenders by empowering them to serve their communities and acquire training for use in a future career. “By renewing young people’s attachment to the community and providing them marketable job skills, we can reduce the rate of juvenile crime, while enhancing economic opportunity in disadvantaged communities,” Velázquez said. Velázquez originally announced the “Civic Corps Jobs Act” Monday during the opening of Planters Grove, a new green space in the Lower East Side, which was made by possibly through the work of Green City Force (GCF). GCF is a community based organization that involves urban youth in green projects to equip them with valuable workplace skills. “We’ve seen firsthand how initiatives like GCF enable young people to support their communities, while preparing them for productive careers,” said Velázquez. “By targeting these same tools toward juvenile offenders who want to turn their lives around, we can help them get on a path to a brighter future.” Statistics show that New York City spends close to $200,000 annually for every juvenile offender that the criminal justice system detains. At the same time, these youth are 50% more likely to commit future crimes, compared to juveniles who stay in their community. The “Civic Justice Corps Jobs Act” would provide grants enabling local community groups to cooperate with social service agencies, local employers and the juvenile justice system, developing local, community-based initiatives like GCF for young offenders. “By furthering cooperation between Community Based Organizations and the Courts, we can find better, more effective alternatives for young offenders,” said Velázquez. “Not only will this reduce crime and provide these young people hope, but, over the long haul, it can save taxpayer money.” Velázquez noted that community based programs which prepare younger workers for the job market are even more important given current economic challenges. This past July, the typical summertime peak of youth employment, the share of young people with a job was just 48.8 percent - the lowest rate since 1948. “We cannot expect young Americans to lead productive, healthy lives if there are no opportunities available to them,” Velázquez added. “The Civic Corps Jobs Act sends a clear message that we will not give up on the young people in our communities.” ###
09.21.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following remarks today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the official end of the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy: "Mr. Speaker, two decades after its enactment, 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' is finally no more. At last, gay men and women can now openly serve in our military, without having to hide who they are. "Eliminating this practice is a historic step forward in our nation. With this progress, our country's military can now become a shining example of equality -- an example to be followed by all sectors of our society. "Just as important, this change will make our Armed Forces stronger. Young Americans who had previously been deterred from joining our military, will now step forward, enlist and serve the country they love. Ultimately, our military will benefit from a broader and deeper pool of talent. "Now, as we move forward in fully implementing this change, we must ensure that same-sex families receive the same benefits as other military couples. "Mr. Speaker, although our work continues, today, we are one step closer to the ideal that we are all created equal. This is an important milestone for all Americans and I am proud to honor it on the House floor. "I yield back." ###
09.21.2011	Washington, DC – Joined on the steps of City Hall by New York City advocacy groups, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today called on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (or "Super Committee") to protect federal housing programs that provide thousands of New Yorkers with affordable housing, while creating economic opportunity throughout the country. At today's event, Velázquez announced she is sending a letter to her colleagues on the deficit panel, asking them to spare housing programs from draconian cuts. "From affordable housing, to job creation, New York's entire economic well being could be fundamentally shaped for the next decade by the Super Committee's decisions," said Velázquez. "We need to make our City's voice heard early and often throughout this process." In addition to helping meet the basic housing needs of Americans and New Yorkers, HUD initiatives have proven to be wise investments that generate economic activity in low income areas. By helping fund capital improvements in New York City Housing Authority facilities and providing resources for other community enhancements, federal housing initiatives have a proven track record of spurring local job growth in New York City. "Ultimately these programs are about creating opportunity in areas that have been hardest hit by the recession," Velázquez noted. "Initiatives like HOME and Community Development Block Grants reinvest in our communities, while creating local jobs. Cutting them now would only undermine our nation's economic recovery." In New York City, five percent of residents live in public housing and 300,000 families reside in public housing and project-based Section 8 developments, making federal initiatives run by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) vital. As the Super Committee has been tasked with identifying savings in the nation's budget, most observers expect that safety net programs may be targeted for funding reductions. "As the Super Committee seeks way to reduce spending and raise revenue, we need to make them aware how critical housing programs are not just to meeting New Yorkers' basic needs, but to keeping our economic recovery on track," Velázquez noted. During today's press event, the Congresswoman was joined by area advocacy groups and other elected officials. "The last thing the super committee should contemplate cutting are the federal housing programs that so many rely on," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "In this economy, we cannot make housing more expensive, or more difficult to obtain. Our working families are facing enough without adding this burden." "Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers, from NYCHA to Section 8, depend on affordable housing programs to stay in their homes and keep our city vibrant and diverse," said State Senator Daniel Squadron. "Cutting federal affordable housing programs when times are getting tougher is unconscionable, bad policy, and a bad strategy for our city's and our country's future. I thank Congresswoman Velazquez, Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and the rest of our congressional delegation for fighting to preserve these programs." "Housing infrastructure for low-income families needs to be preserved and expanded, not threatened with shrinkage and extinction," said David R. Jones, President and CEO of the Community Service Society. "Hundreds of thousands of low-income New Yorkers on the Housing Authority's waiting lists for public housing and vouchers attest to the need and the opportunity these programs represent, particularly in the midst of a sustained job recession. The price of deficit reduction should not come at their expense." The Super Committee was created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, legislation that passed in early August to prevent the nation from defaulting on its debt. The panel is charged with issuing a recommendation by November 23, 2011 for at least $1.5 trillion in additional deficit reduction steps to be undertaken over a ten‐year period. Under the Budget Control Act, those recommendations are automatically considered in Congress by an "up or down vote" and are not subject to amendments, making their suggestions for budget reductions a critical step in the process. ###
09.20.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled a new report detailing how the President's recently proposed "American Jobs Act" would boost job growth in New York City. Compiled from a range of data sources, the report finds New York City could gain 70,000 jobs through passage of the "American Jobs Act." Such a rise in employment would cut New York City's unemployment rate from the current 8.7 percent to 7 percent. "Families in New York are struggling to get by and cannot afford to wait," Velázquez said. "Congress, also, cannot delay and should pass this legislation immediately." The report finds that the 467,000 small businesses in New York City would save $381 million through a planned payroll tax holiday in the American Jobs Act. In addition, by extending 100 percent expensing for businesses, the tax provisions could generate more than $450 million in new spending in New York City. "Small businesses are the cornerstone of our City's economy and the American Jobs Act would empower them to expand and create jobs," said Velázquez, who is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business. New York City's construction industry, which has been particularly hard hit by the downturn would also benefit. Employment in the City's construction industry has dropped by 20,000 positions between 2008 and 2010 and the number of projects has fallen by 700. The American Jobs Act would provide $50 billion in immediate investments for highways, transit, rail and aviation, helping to modernize infrastructure. In addition, the White House is proposing $25 billion to modernize schools. The report issued Friday finds that New York City's share of this funding would support more than 27,000 construction jobs. "The construction sector has always been an important source of good jobs for working families in New York," Velázquez said. "With the American Jobs Act, we can put New Yorkers back to work rebuilding our schools, improving our roads and upgrading our transit system." In addition to boosting private sector employment, the report finds that New York City would benefit from new resources to keep first responders and school teachers employed. Funds from the act could support up to 6,552 education-related jobs in New York City and over 1,057 first responder positions. "Firefighters, police officers and teachers are vital to keeping our communities safe," Velázquez noted. "With New York facing severe budget cuts, the funds from this act would keep these valuable public servants employed and performing their vital roles." The President's bill has been sent to Congress where it awaits action. Last week, Velázquez called for the Chairman of the Small Business Committee to take up the bill and consider it immediately. Democrats have been calling for swift passage of the measure, but Republicans, who control the House of Representatives, have made no commitment to consider the bill, nor put forth a job plan of their own. The report may be downloaded by clicking here. ###
07.19.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) delivered the following statement today during House floor debate on H.R. 2560 : “As we debate how to avert the default crisis, we should acknowledge what got us into the current mess. The real reason that the United States faces this dilemma dates back to a series of irresponsible tax cuts. $2.5 trillion in tax giveaways -- that were unpaid for and went disproportionately to the wealthiest Americans -- put us on an unsustainable path. "We were told tax cuts would provide an economic boost. So, what did we get for this enormous addition to the deficit? Was our economy strengthened? Were new jobs created? The answer is a resounding no. The median income for working families fell by 2.4 percent during the first ten years these tax cuts were in place -- while food, housing and other necessities became more expensive. Job creation plummeted to 33,000 new jobs a month -- the lowest levels since President Hoover. The record is clear -- giving tax breaks to the wealthy without paying for it ballooned our deficit --but didn't create jobs. Now, the proposal before us would not just continue this misguided policy -- but make it worse. It won't create jobs for Americans, but will slash services working families rely on. Make no mistake -- this plan begins the dismantling of Medicare and Social Security. Meanwhile, subsidies for Big Oil companies and tax breaks for billionaires would be locked in. "Most of all, at a time when our economy is struggling, this bill would cost hundreds of thousands of American jobs. If you like 9 percent unemployment, you will love this bill. "We need a serious discussion on how to resolve the debt crisis, while protecting working families. Time is running out and a default on the federal debt is not an option. Rather than wasting time on this outrageous legislation -- which will never become law --we should be crafting a solution that strengthens our economy for the long term. "I urge a no vote and yield back the balance of my time." ###
06.25.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the enactment of legislation in New York to recognize same sex marriage: “Recognition of same sex marriage in New York is a historic step forward for human and civil rights. I commend Governor Cuomo for his steadfast leadership on this issue. Now, we must continue working at the federal level to repeal similar discriminatory policies like the Defense of Marriage Act.” ###
03.17.2011	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding a privileged resolution to end the war in Afghanistan. Below are her remarks. "I rise in support of this important resolution. "After ten years, $336 billions dollars spent, 1,500 American lives lost, and thousands maimed, it is time to bring our troops home. Our servicemen and women and their coalition allies have performed valiantly. The United States has done everything possible to provide opportunity for the Afghanistan people, and the chance for a democratic government there to mature and take hold. Afghanistan must now take responsibility for its own destiny. "The fact of the matter is this --- if now is not the time to leave, then when? Afghanistan has become the longest war in U.S. history with a price tag of $100 billion a year. At a time when we are contemplating cutting services for seniors, educational programs for children, and tuition assistance for working college students, that money could be spent more wisely elsewhere. "Mr. Speaker, too much of our country’s treasure has gone toward this war. But more importantly, the cost in human life, American and Afghan, has been enormous. As the world’s greatest democracy, what kid of message does this war send to other nations? Do as we say, not as we do? "It is time to make our actions reflect our words. Get out of Afghanistan now." ###
03.16.2011	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding legislation that would terminate the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. Below are her remarks. "I rise today to speak in opposition to H.R. 861. This legislation would terminate the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which helps communities cope with the problem of abandoned and foreclosed properties. The NSP will help rehabilitate over 600 properties in New York City alone, but this is not just an issue for New York. This is a national problem. It was created by a decade of overheated mortgage lending and excess on Wall Street. It makes sense that our cities should have a national response. But contrary to common sense, the bill we consider today would abandon our cities and towns and force them to deal with this issue on their own. "The foreclosure crisis has a ripple effect on our whole economy. Foreclosed and abandoned homes consume limited city resources. At the same time, these homes lower property values for everyone in their neighborhood. Assistance from the NSP can not only rehabilitate empty homes, it can also reverse the downward spiral in property values. This bill eliminates the only housing mitigation program committed to stemming these ripple effects. Foreclosures are costly to everyone. Without the NSP, Main Street will bear the costs of a problem created on Wall Street. "Nationwide nearly 100,000 projects will be undertaken with NSP funds. Property values will be restored in these neighborhoods, and working families will once again have access to affordable housing. Yet, if this legislation is enacted, 200 projects in New York City will go unfinished. Withdrawing support for the NSP at this stage will slow the budding recovery in our housing sector – not just for New York City, but also for cities and towns across America. Clearly this is a step in the wrong direction. "I urge a NO vote on this ill-conceived legislation. I yield back the balance of my time." ###
12.15.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented on passage of legislation in the U.S. House to repeal the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy: “Today’s passage of H.R. 2965, Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act, was a huge step forward in the civil rights fight for the GLBT community. I applaud its passage and was proud to support the legislation.” ###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today during debate on H.R. 847, the “James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.” Following are her remarks: “Mr. Speaker, as is often the case with disasters, on 9/11 -- and in the weeks that followed -- the best of America was on display. Neighborhoods came together to comfort and support one another. Communities in every corner of the country rallied together. In New York City, our brave first responders answered the call valiantly, putting their lives at risk to protect the rest of us. “Over the last the nine years, the full scope of this tragedy’s health effects has become increasingly clear. Firefighters, police officers, EMTs and rescue workers are all suffering respiratory problems. Even school children and those who work in the area have exhibited health problems. It is estimated that 36,000 people have sought treatment after being exposed to the toxic dust at the World Trade Center site. “It is not just New Yorkers who are affected. 10,000 people travelled from every state of the union including Puerto Rico and the territories to assist in the aftermath of the attacks. Like all of America, these heroes were a diverse group, representing every age, race, religion and even status. No one asked them their citizenship status when they stepped in to help. They were all there and they were all heroes. This legislation will provide needed benefits for all those suffering from the toxins they were exposed to. “This is the right thing to do. These brave individuals cast aside their own safety to assist their fellow human beings. Thank you and I yield back.” ###
09.27.2010	New York - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commended the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for designating Newtown Creek for the National Priorities List, or “Superfund” status: “Superfund designation is an important step toward restoring Newtown Creek into a source of pride for the community. A cleaner waterway will improve the quality of life for creek side residents and expand economic opportunities for local businesses. “Today’s announcement brings us closer to a healthier environment for New Yorkers in Queens and Brooklyn. As the cleanup process gets underway, I will continue working with the EPA to ensure it proceeds safely and swiftly.” ###
08.04.2010	‘An Angel in Queens’ Helps Feed Hungry Neighbors Washington, DC – A local Queens resident is being honored by the White House with the Presidential Citizens Medal for his work to provide food to homeless people and day laborers in Queens, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. For the past six years, Jorge Muñoz has used donations and money he earns as a school bus driver to feed 130 people from the back of his truck. “Mr. Muñoz serves as a shining example of how one dedicated person can make a difference in their community,” Velázquez said. Muñoz emigrated from Columbia in the late 1980s, later becoming a citizen. He began his effort to feed the hungry in 2004. Since then, his work has evolved into a non-profit called “An Angel in Queens.” Muñoz is estimated to have served tens of thousands of meals since he began providing free meals. While most of those he feeds are the homeless or immigrant day laborers, he offers hot meals and coffee to anyone who stands in line. “Mr. Muñoz’s efforts are truly inspiring for all of us,” Velázquez said. The Presidential Citizens Medal recognizes Americans who have “performed exemplary deeds of service for their country or their fellow citizens.” The award is among the highest a President can bestow. ###
07.21.2010	Washington, DC – President Barack Obama today signed into law sweeping new rules that will bring greater transparency and accountability to U.S. financial institutions. Among other changes, the new law will establish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) praised the landmark act, saying it would add needed stability to the U.S. financial system, preventing future crises in the capital markets. “The reforms enacted today will restore confidence in our economy and ensure that the problems leading up to the financial meltdown and the recession are never again repeated,” Velázquez said. “By improving oversight of our financial institutions, we can improve the flow of credit to businesses and get our economy moving in the right direction again.” Included in the new law is a provision authored by Velázquez that will encourage more prospective homebuyers to obtain a home inspection before buying property. Velázquez’s provision is based on a portion of a bill, H.R. 2130, the Consumer Protection Home Inspection Counseling Act, which she introduced last year. The language requires counselors at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Federal Housing Administration to provide materials on home inspections to prospective homebuyers. HUD training of counselors will also be required to include information on the importance of inspections. “The foreclosure crisis made clear the need to arm homebuyers with reliable information,” Velázquez said. “By making New Yorkers aware of the benefits of an inspection, we can help consumers to make a safe investment when buying a home, avoid financial pitfalls and, ultimately, prevent future foreclosures.” Velázquez serves as a senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and on its Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. ###
07.02.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement on the violence at Puerto Rico’s capitol: “The violent images that are being circulated through the Internet cannot bring anything but sorrow for the people injured and concern for the democratic values that the Puerto Rican society has historically cherished. “It is my hope that all sides refrain from provoking violence and that an investigation be carried out swiftly and thoroughly to determine any abuses of authority by law enforcement officers. Going forward, the political leadership of the island must work toward an empathetic and constructive dialogue, while tending to the people’s concerns.” ###
07.01.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented today on news that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR), the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) and the Department of Housing Development and Preservation (HPD) have reached an agreement that will ensure thousands of New York City families are able to keep their housing. The following is Velázquez’s statement: “Working families depend on NYCHA’s programs. By keeping 2,500 New Yorkers in their homes, yesterday’s agreement ensures they can continue to rely on the authority’s assistance. I commend the agencies for collaborating to resolve this issue.” Velázquez has been calling on state, city and federal agencies to resolve the issue. In January, she led the New York delegation in writing a letter to Governor Paterson and Mayor Bloomberg, calling for swift resolution of the issue. ###
05.19.2010	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today submitted testimony to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing being held on H.R. 2499, legislation related to Puerto Rico’s political status. Following is Velázquez’s testimony: “Thank you, Chairman Bingaman, for holding this important hearing. As one of the four Puerto Rican Members of Congress, I am personally invested in the status of Puerto Rico. I appreciate the opportunity to provide my views on H.R. 2499 and its impact on Puerto Rico and the United States. “I oppose this bill. I have stated before that I believe that the best process to determine the will of the people regarding status is through a Constitutional Assembly. However, if the process for self-determination should be through a plebiscite, it is my firm belief that Puerto Ricans should, at minimum, have all the options available from which to choose. “Whenever the debate about the status of Puerto Rico occurs, it still amazes me that the same old issues keep resurfacing. The tactics and actions taken by interested parties continue to be a disservice to the people of Puerto Rico and an affront to the democratic concept of self-determination. “What seems to be missing from this debate is the realization that prior processes, in both the House and the Senate, taught us important lessons. We need to acknowledge these lessons and apply them to today’s efforts. “In the past 15 years, the House has acted on flawed legislation that eventually, and properly, stalled in this body. The Senate’s most recent experience in conducting a detailed examination of this issue was the extensive effort undertaken by this committee’s chairman, Senator Bennett Johnston, in 1989. That review, while comprehensive, was unable to complete the legislative process. Since then, there has been no other Congressional effort that has sought to ascertain answers to the economic, political, social and constitutional questions that are relevant in any debate on the future of Puerto Rico and the United States. “So here we are, today, continuing to talk about Puerto Rico, its past, present and possible future. Still, even with the endless debate, we do not seem to learn the lessons of the previous efforts on this matter. “This is especially true if you examine these past two decades. We have spent time discussing: Whether Congress would pre-commit to a status decision for the people of Puerto Rico; Should the Senate or the House define for Puerto Ricans their status options? What limits our Constitution does or does not have? “Mr. Chairman, we should not place the cart in front of the horse. Let’s take the novel position that Puerto Ricans should first tell us what they want, before we debate what we want. In order to have a constructive discussion on how to address the Puerto Rico question, we must recognize the following lessons: First, it is for the people of Puerto Rico, including those communities in the United States, to exercise their right to self-determination - not Congress. Second, for a process of self-determination to be accepted as valid by the people, it must be transparent, fair and agreed upon by consensus. Third, proponents of status options that fail to win the support of the people in Puerto Rico can not circumvent the will of the people through federal legislation; Congress will not validate nor sanction legislative schemes used to engineer an electoral victory. “Two weeks ago, the House had a very spirited debate about this bill. It is my view that the majority of members saw a flawed bill. Even the Rules Committee seemed to tell the House that the bill had troubling issues by allowing debate on 8 amendments, 5 of which dealt, in one form or another, with the process laid out in the bill. Whether it was eliminating one round of voting or adding an option to the ballot or even striking the whole process, the House clearly heard the message that the bill was unfair. “Today, the Senate has a version of H.R. 2499 that includes the Commonwealth option in the second round of voting under this bill. However, the bill is still the byproduct of a process that did not reach consensus with other status options supporters and tried unsuccessfully to exclude an option from the ballot. This bill is not conducive to an informed self-determination decision by the people of Puerto Rico. Rather, it was conceived with a predetermined agenda in mind. I strongly urge you to not consider it. “Fairness, transparency and consensus are paramount to this debate. In examining these issues, the highest priority should be given to what the people of Puerto Rico want. Congress should not be considering legislation that would stack the deck to reach a predetermined outcome, as the original version of this bill sought to do. Puerto Ricans must be allowed to express their aspirations in a democratic manner that is not encumbered with convoluted processes designed to undermine one side or another. “Mr. Chairman, I appreciate opportunity to share my thoughts on this important issue.” ###
04.29.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today during debate on H.R. 2499, legislation related to Puerto Rico’s political status. Following are her remarks as prepared for delivery: “Since its inception, this legislation has been engulfed in controversy. Not only was this bill drafted unilaterally, but it was prepared in a biased manner -- with a predetermined outcome in mind. Let us be clear -- this legislation is designed to push the statehood agenda, regardless of whether that agenda is the best solution for the Island, or even popular among the people. “I tell you, this legislation has no business being on the floor today. It raises a host of questions. It has zero probability of becoming law. However it does place members in the awkward position explaining why they are meddling in Puerto Rico when a request from Puerto Rico has not even been made. “There are economic issues that we must address first. The President has ordered his White House Task Force on Puerto Rico to advise him and Congress on policies and initiatives that promote job creation, education, clean energy and health care. Instead of dealing first with the very real concerns of how the people of Puerto Rico survive day by day, we are telling them our priority is to debate a status bill that will not become law. This is a disgrace. “It is baffling that the statehood option, which lost in 1967, in 1993 and, again, in 1998, -- is now allowed to scheme its way to victory. It is at the urging of this losing side that House Members have cosponsored a bill that will push for yet another electoral process. Except this time, the proposal that was previously rejected is being put in a privileged position. Those who drafted this legislation would exclude Commonwealth status in the planned plebiscite by developing a shell game -- with a first round process to delegitimize it. “The process that enabled the creation of the Commonwealth was adopted by Congress. The Puerto Rico Constitution was ratified by Congress and this form of government has been upheld by our U.S. Courts. That’s why it is so appalling, deceitful and shameful that the people of Puerto Rico would be denied this option. No matter how much statehood supporters complain about Commonwealth -- it is the law of the land. “Congress should not be in the business of picking winners and losers for these kinds of referenda. It is not our job to create artificial conditions that will enable statehood to win a popular vote in Puerto Rico. Becoming a State of this Union is something that people must embrace knowingly, voluntarily and openly. If the people of Puerto Rico want to become a State, the Statehood option should stand on its own. There should be no need to hide behind process or petty politics. “In a matter as fundamentally important to over 4 million Puerto Ricans, you would think that a public hearing could have been convened to listen to their views. It is, after all, their future that is at stake. It is an outrage that a congressional hearing on the status issue has not been held in Puerto Rico since the 1990s. “As many know, I have advocated for a constitutional convention to begin the process of determining Puerto Rico’s status. Certainly this is not the only option for going forward. But, a sham of a process is definitely not a valid democratic option for choosing Puerto Rico’s future. “The concept of self determination is fundamental to democracy. Sadly, H.R. 2499 turns its back on this principle. We must not allow politics to undermine our democratic values nor be swayed by arguments that make no sense. “I urge my colleagues to stand up for what is truly right. Choose principles over politics. Let Puerto Ricans decide their own destiny -- without undue Congressional demands. Vote no on H.R. 2499.” ###
04.26.2010	New York, NY –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) presented Comunilife, Inc. with $167,000 in federal resources for a suicide prevention program for Latina teens and their families, Saturday. The funds will support the Life Is Precious initiative, which arms Hispanic girls with the tools needed to manage stress and combat depression. With suicide rates significantly higher among teenage Latinas than other ethnic groups, the Life Is Precious program is critical to making sure New York City youth live full, healthy lives. “Latina teens face a wide range of challenges in our society and, sadly, sometimes these pressures can be overwhelming,” said Rep. Velázquez. “Far too many of our families have lost a child to suicide and, here, in New York City, these tragedies are even more common.” A 2007 study found that one out of seven Latina high school students tries to end her life. The Life is Precious program empowers at-risk Latinas from Bushwick and Williamsburg by helping them cope with stress and emotional challenges. The project offers teens academic assistance, lets them explore their interests to develop skills and creativity, and supports increased family communication to solve stress and depression issues. After only one and a half years in operation, Life is Precious has already equipped nearly100 girls with the skills needed to prevent suicide. “This is an innovative program that gives young Latinas a place to turn and helps address emotional challenges in a culturally relevant way,” Velázquez said. “By empowering these young women to lead healthier, happier lives we can prepare a new generation of leaders and strengthen our community for the future.” Comunilife, Inc. is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1989 to expand access to government and social services for children, adolescents, adults, and families living with mental illness, addictive disorders, HIV/AIDS, and homelessness. Serving 1,800 families in New York City, the organization provides culturally appropriate support to those in need of housing, health, behavioral health, rehabilitation, and domestic violence assistance. Funding for the Life Is Precious project was allocated through the Omnibus Appropriations Act passed by Congress last year. ### For a picture of Saturday’s event, click here.
04.16.2010	Washington, DC –A Puerto Rican television station that repeatedly aired anti-gay language while discussing the coming out of singer Ricky Martin has apologized after Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) asked for the Federal Communications Commission to investigate the matter. In a letter to Velázquez, WAPA TV said that its performers had apologized on-air and that it was launching a Public Service Campaign to raise awareness about inappropriate language. “Using derogatory language on the public airwaves not only contributes to bigotry, but can foster an environment that promotes hate crimes,” Velázquez said. “While the corrective steps announced by WAPA are positive, incidents like these are unacceptable and cannot go unchallenged.” On April 12, Velázquez and New York City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn wrote the FCC asking that the agency investigate complaints against the station. Their letter can be downloaded here. WAPA’s letter can be downloaded here. ###
04.16.2010	Washington, DC –The New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) is receiving a short term emergency funding infusion of $23.5 million from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. The funds will be used to help cover a $45 million shortfall in the agency’s Section 8 program that has put 10,000 tenants’ rental assistance vouchers at risk of being revoked. “While more remains to be done, this announcement is good news for our City, for NYCHA and, most of all, for thousands of New York families that rely on Section 8 to find affordable housing,” Velázquez noted. “By helping close NYCHA’s budget gap, these funds will offer a lifeline to some of our most vulnerable residents.” Earlier this year, because of lower attrition rates from the program and higher than anticipated demand, NYCHA was forced to rescind vouchers from households that had been promised assistance. While the New York City Department of Homeless Services is taking steps to assist many of the affected families, Velázquez made clear there is a need for better administration of the agency’s programs. “Certainly, NYCHA faces difficult challenges because of the economy, but recent events also suggest a need for more transparency in how it operates,” Velázquez said. “In coming weeks, I’ll be keeping a close eye on NYCHA to ensure it uses theses resources wisely and prevents problems like these from occurring again.” In recent weeks, Velázquez pushed the Department of Housing and Urban Development to set aside some of its funding to help address the NYCHA budget shortfall. In addition, last month, she and other New York Members of Congress helped broker a deal that federalized several NYCHA public housing properties, providing immediate funding to update and improve the facilities, while ensuring the buildings also receive steady source of federal money in the long term. Velázquez is a senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, which has jurisdiction over housing matter. ###
04.14.2010	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today in support of a Resolution offering sympathy to the people of Poland. Following are her remarks as prepared for delivery: “The loss of President Kaczynski, Poland’s First Lady and the other dignitaries is not Poland’s tragedy, alone. All of us mourn the loss of those who helped spread the light of freedom during the Cold War. “Our nation enjoys deep ties to Poland. Communities across our country have been shaped and built by millions of Polish immigrants who came to the United States seeking a better life. These immigrants -- and their descendants -- have added invaluable contributions to the rich tapestry of American culture. “Greenpoint, Brooklyn, in my district, has one of the most vibrant Polish-American communities in the nation. During the 1980s, many Poles took refuge in this ‘Little Poland’ when martial law was imposed against Solidarity, back home. To this day, storefront windows on Manhattan Avenue proudly proclaim ‘We Speak Polish’ -- a testament to the neighborhood’s enduring ties with the home country. “Just two years ago, President Kaczynski came to Greenpoint. He worshipped in our churches. He met with local leaders. And, he visited with the people of ‘Little Poland.’ His trip there was an inspiring moment for many New Yorkers. Today, there are heavy hearts in Greenpoint -- as there are in Polish-American communities throughout the nation. “In coming weeks, the Polish people will grieve their loss. We join them in mourning. But, we can be confident that Poland will recover, carry forward and grow stronger. The fact that this crash occurred while traveling to a ceremony for another tragedy is a sad irony. However, it also reminds us of the Polish people’s strength in the face of adversity. That unyielding spirit shall remain an important part of Poland’s identity -- and of her many sons and daughters who reside in the United States.” ###
04.13.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented on the fire at Grand Street: “In coming days, our community must pull together to help those affected by this fire. Hundreds of our neighbors have been left without a home. In the short term, we must ensure that emergency housing is available for those displaced by this fire. I urge the Department of Homeless Services, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development and all relevant agencies to work together closely in assisting those who lost their apartments. In the long term, we need to make sure these residents have affordable housing options within their community that they may return to once rebuilding efforts are complete. Finally, I extend my heartfelt thanks to our City’s courageous first responders, many of whom suffered injuries and risked their own lives rescuing local residents.” ###
03.22.2010	Washington, DC – President Barack Obama last week signed into law the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, H.R. 2847. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-12), who chairs the U.S. House Committee on Small Business, hailed the new law for investing in small business and helping them fuel economic growth. The HIRE Act was approved in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 217-201, and passed the Senate by a vote of 68-29. “This initiative is an important step toward creating the jobs that New Yorkers need. With New York City’s unemployment rate above the national average, many of our neighbors want nothing more than to get back to work,” Velázquez said. Included in the new law are provisions to: Encourage employers to start hiring now by making available an additional $1,000 income tax credit for hiring previously unemployed workers. Provide businesses that hire workers who have been unemployed for at least two months an exemption from the Social Security payroll tax. Spur job creation by making it easier for state and local governments to finance infrastructure projects such as school construction and clean energy development. Save up to 1 million jobs alone by strengthening the Highway Trust Fund to allow for tens of billions of dollars in transit and highway investment. “Small businesses fuel this country’s economic engine. The HIRE Act will help entrepreneurs do what they do best, create jobs and revitalize communities. ” Velázquez said. ###
03.22.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) commented on passage of “the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act”: “For too long, working families have lived in fear that they are just one illness away from financial ruin. For too long, the men and women in my home state of New York have watched their premiums skyrocket, with family rates up 97% in the last decade. For too long, Latinos have been left behind, suffering the highest uninsured rate of any other community. Tonight, it is time to say enough. “It is time to say enough to the discriminatory policies that charge women and minorities more money for the same services. It is time to say enough to a system that has pushed more than 2.5 million New Yorkers over the brink and into the ranks of the uninsured. And it is time to say enough to a status quo that robs Americans of the peace of mind that can only come from knowing this -- they, and they alone, are in charge of their own well being. “This bill gives every American that autonomy. For the Latino community, it delivers coverage to 8.8 million people. In my home district, it improves options for 324,000 residents, and expands care to 86,000 more. For 16,000 people with preexisting conditions, it allows them to buy affordable health plans right away, promising them: Never again. Never again can you be denied coverage. And for 4,300 of my district’s seniors paying full price for prescription drugs, it closes the Medicare donut hole. “Meanwhile, this bill invests in New York’s network of community health centers. In my district alone, 33 clinics will see critical improvements, meaning more options for the men and women of Brooklyn, Queens and the Lower East Side. And, at the end of the day, isn’t that what this legislation is all about -- options? “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will deliver better choices -- not just for New Yorkers, but for all Americans. With the passage of health care reform, we are finally answering a decades-long cry for help. We are finally empowering the American people with quality, affordable options that put them in the driver’s seat, and I urge support of this landmark legislation.” ###
03.15.2010	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-12) commented today on the federalization of 21 City and State owned public housing buildings, including the Bushwick and Rutgers facilities located in New York’s 12th Congressional District: “This deal is a win-win for New York’s public housing residents. Through the use of resources in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, NYCHA will be able to make immediate improvements and repairs to these buildings. Over the long term, additional annual federal funding will ensure New Yorkers have stable, affordable housing options. ###
03.02.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to list the Gowanus Canal on its Superfund National Priorities List: “Today’s announcement of Superfund designation ensures the Gowanus Canal will be fully restored, helping provide a healthy future for South Brooklyn. The EPA has the proven expertise to oversee a comprehensive clean-up, while holding accountable those responsible for the pollution. As this process moves forward, I will continue working to revitalize this local landmark so that it can fully live up to its potential.” ###
02.26.2010	Washington, DC – Earlier this week, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, H.R. 4626; legislation that will lower health care costs by promoting competition among providers. In 2009, the average monthly premium for family coverage was 13 percent higher than the year before. A loophole in federal regulations has enabled large insurance companies to raise costs while limiting benefits. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the bill for closing this loophole, resulting in more affordable health care for New York City residents. “Health insurance premiums are rising at an alarming rate which far exceeds what working families can afford. At a time when people’s budgets are already stretched thin, legislation that helps drive health care costs down is more important than ever.” Velázquez said. Currently 1.3 million residents in New York City are uninsured and for those that are covered rates continue climbing. By bolstering competition, the bill provides incentives that encourage insurance companies to lower costs and improve quality -- helping the uninsured access essential care and providing relief for those struggling to afford coverage. “Increased competition means more choices for consumers, reducing costs and improving benefits. For decades big insurance companies have followed their own rules and it’s time to level the playing field. With the passage of H.R. 4626, fairness is finally restored and New Yorkers will have more access to essential care at an affordable price,” Velázquez said. In New York State, the two biggest health insurance companies control 46 percent of the market, and premiums for families increased by 97 percent between 2000 and 2009. Subjecting the health insurance industry to the same anti-trust laws as other industries will help prevent price fixing and monopolizing of the market. H.R. 4626 passed the House by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 406-19 and must now be considered by the U.S. Senate. ###
01.27.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union speech this evening: “Tonight, President Obama laid out an agenda that draws on the strength, ingenuity and resilience of the American people. I applaud the President for focusing first and foremost on turning our economy around and creating new jobs with a combination of infrastructure investment and small business support. Only after we get people back to work and help them afford their basic needs will our economy truly recover. “The President also outlined a series of proposals that will ease the burden for Americans who are struggling through today’s economic difficulties. These initiatives would make it easier for students to pay off their loans, help families with soaring child care and elderly care costs, while giving workers more tools to save for their retirements. Thousands of New Yorkers will benefit from these reforms and I look forward to seeing them enacted. “Finally, I was pleased to hear the President reaffirm his dedication to addressing health care. Enacting meaningful health care reform will extend coverage to more than 1 million New Yorkers who are currently uninsured, bring rising health care costs under control and prevent insurance companies from abandoning Americans when they are most vulnerable. Comprehensive health care reform remains vital to providing true economic security for Americans and we cannot rest until we have accomplished this goal. “I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress as we tackle the issues important to New Yorkers and bring about the change the American people so badly need. While we undoubtedly face great challenges right now, our nation and our City have overcome adversity before and we will do so again, building a brighter future for working families across our country.” ###
01.27.2010	U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder calling on him to reconsider holding the trials for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorist defendants in Lower Manhattan’s federal courthouse. Below is the text of the letter: January 27, 2010 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530Dear Attorney General Holder: As you know, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) recently proposed trying Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and several other co-defendants in the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. I am alarmed by the current proposal and its potential impact on the daily lives of neighborhood residents, as well as commercial activity, in an area that has already been subjected to enhanced security since 9/11. I implore you to reconsider trying these high profile terrorists in Lower Manhattan. Considering the implications that a Lower Manhattan trial would have on the lives of residents and the health of businesses in the neighborhood, I do not believe that the needs of this community have been properly taken into account. Community Board 1 recently held a public hearing with more than 100 residents participating to voice their displeasure with the negative impact this would have on there lives. The current plan would create a fortress-like perimeter around the courthouse. Within this security zone lie two large residential buildings – Chatham Towers, a 240-unit building, and Chatham Green, with more than 400 units. For the length of the trial, life for the thousands of residents living in these two developments would be severely disrupted. Their homes would be surrounded by metal barriers, vehicle access would be restricted, and a visible security presence would be felt by them continuously. An untenable living situation would be imposed on these residents for several years without their consultation. In addition, an increased police presence with random stops and searches, along with exacerbated traffic congestion, will deter many visitors from shopping in the area. Such changes would have a profoundly negative impact on the fourth-largest business district in the country and it seems that the plan is being imposed without any economic analysis of what could be done to mitigate the impact on the community or the cost to local small businesses. It should be noted that these businesses, which employ tens of thousands of people and are critical to the city’s economic vitality, have already suffered from restricted parking and access under current security plans. In conclusion, I believe the choice for a trial location has been made in an extremely shortsighted manner and I would respectfully request that you explore the possibilities of moving the trial to an alternate site. To begin correcting these problems, the Department of Justice must make itself available immediately to discuss the negative effects this trial will have on Lower Manhattan and to hear firsthand the community’s concerns. This will ensure the public’s input is fairly considered during this process and that all potentially negative impacts of the trial’s location are thoroughly evaluated. I look forward to hearing from you and appreciate your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia Velázquez Member of Congress ###
01.27.2010	U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder calling on him to reconsider holding the trials for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorist defendants in Lower Manhattan’s federal courthouse. Below is the text of the letter: January 27, 2010 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530Dear Attorney General Holder: As you know, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) recently proposed trying Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and several other co-defendants in the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. I am alarmed by the current proposal and its potential impact on the daily lives of neighborhood residents, as well as commercial activity, in an area that has already been subjected to enhanced security since 9/11. I implore you to reconsider trying these high profile terrorists in Lower Manhattan. Considering the implications that a Lower Manhattan trial would have on the lives of residents and the health of businesses in the neighborhood, I do not believe that the needs of this community have been properly taken into account. Community Board 1 recently held a public hearing with more than 100 residents participating to voice their displeasure with the negative impact this would have on there lives. The current plan would create a fortress-like perimeter around the courthouse. Within this security zone lie two large residential buildings – Chatham Towers, a 240-unit building, and Chatham Green, with more than 400 units. For the length of the trial, life for the thousands of residents living in these two developments would be severely disrupted. Their homes would be surrounded by metal barriers, vehicle access would be restricted, and a visible security presence would be felt by them continuously. An untenable living situation would be imposed on these residents for several years without their consultation. In addition, an increased police presence with random stops and searches, along with exacerbated traffic congestion, will deter many visitors from shopping in the area. Such changes would have a profoundly negative impact on the fourth-largest business district in the country and it seems that the plan is being imposed without any economic analysis of what could be done to mitigate the impact on the community or the cost to local small businesses. It should be noted that these businesses, which employ tens of thousands of people and are critical to the city’s economic vitality, have already suffered from restricted parking and access under current security plans. In conclusion, I believe the choice for a trial location has been made in an extremely shortsighted manner and I would respectfully request that you explore the possibilities of moving the trial to an alternate site. To begin correcting these problems, the Department of Justice must make itself available immediately to discuss the negative effects this trial will have on Lower Manhattan and to hear firsthand the community’s concerns. This will ensure the public’s input is fairly considered during this process and that all potentially negative impacts of the trial’s location are thoroughly evaluated. I look forward to hearing from you and appreciate your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia Velázquez Member of Congress ###
01.25.2010	Washington, DC – The New York City Congressional delegation, led by U.S. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) and U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), have called on local and State leaders to address the City’s Section 8 funding shortage. Last December the program was overextended causing nearly 2,600 families to have their vouchers revoked. The Congressional members stressed the importance of providing assistance for everyone affected and developing a plan to prevent this from happening again in the future. “Promising housing vouchers to New York City’s neediest residents and then breaking that commitment is unacceptable,” Velázquez said. “It is incumbent upon the city and the state to work with NYCHA to find safe, affordable housing for these families,” Schumer said. “It is unacceptable that households were promised housing assistance and, through no fault of their own, did not receive the assistance that they were promised.” Following is the text of their letter to New York Governor David A. Paterson and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg: January 22, 2010 Dear Governor Paterson and Mayor Bloomberg: As members of the New York Congressional Delegation, we are writing on behalf of the 2,597 households impacted by the New York City Housing Authority’s (NYCHA) decision to revoke their Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers. These families were under the assumption – many of them for several months – that they would receive a fully-subsidized voucher from NYCHA, only to receive notice in January that the assistance was no longer available. We are concerned that, unless action is taken, many of the affected households will end up in the New York City shelter system unable to find stable housing without the assistance they were promised. The affected households are some of our City’s most vulnerable residents, including intimidated witnesses, youth aging out of the foster care system, victims of domestic violence and referrals from the New York City Department of Homeless Services (NYC DHS). These New Yorkers have become victims at a time when housing assistance is needed most, due largely to low attrition rates. While the economic climate and high unemployment have limited NYCHA’s ability to provide these families with a voucher, it is crucial that NYCHA continues to work with City and State officials to find alternative means of housing assistance. For example, we support NYC DHS’ request that the New York State Office of Temporary & Disability Assistance (OTDA) provide relief to: (1) the 5,600 formerly homeless families who are Advantage NY participants and need assistance until Section 8 vouchers become available to them; and (2) the approximately 70 families that exit the shelter system each week (about 3,640 families this year) and require a transition from the time-limited Advantage subsidy to the longer-term Section 8 voucher. However, while this is one alternative solution, it does not meet our standard of covering every family affected by NYCHA’s decision. There must be a plan in place to assist every family affected. Finding decent, affordable housing for the impacted households is not only necessary, it is a cost-effective solution. Data suggests that in New York City it costs approximately $26,000 annually to provide someone with assistance in a homeless shelter, whereas a Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher would give that same household affordable rental housing for only $11,000 a year. Clearly, finding alternative housing assistance makes the most economic sense for the state and local governments. We strongly urge City and State officials to work together to find a solution that will meet the needs of all households impacted by this unfortunate situation and stand ready to assist in this effort. Cordially, Charles E. Schumer Kirsten Gillibrand Nydia M. Velázquez US Senator US Senator Member of Congress Gary Ackerman Yvette D. Clarke Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Eliot Engel Carolyn B. Maloney Michael E. McMahon Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Gregory W. Meeks Jerrold Nadler Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress José E. Serrano Edolphus Towns Anthony D. Weiner Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) secured $2.65 million in federal dollars to help rejuvenate the local economy and enhance the quality of life for New Yorkers. Aimed at creating jobs, strengthening education, increasing healthcare resources and supporting entrepreneurs, the funding will be directed to local community organizations supporting these efforts. The funds were included in H.R. 3288, the Fiscal Year 2010 Omnibus Appropriations conference report, legislation the U.S. House of Representatives approved yesterday by a vote of 221-202. The U.S. Senate is expected to approve the Omnibus Appropriations measure in the coming week, after which it will be sent to the President to be signed into law. “Today’s economic security depends on addressing the local needs in neighborhoods across the country,” Rep. Velázquez said. “The funding provided though H.R. 3288 will help our community organizations provide New Yorkers job training, educational opportunities and other vital resources. By investing in them, we are investing in New York’s economy and securing the path to recovery.” Following is a list of projects that Congresswoman Velázquez secured funding for in the FY 2010 Omnibus bill: Good Shepherd Services: $250,000 to support year-round, after-school programs for at-risk youth to promote individual, family and community development. Kentler International Drawing Space, Inc.: $100,000 to support and expand arts education programs for at-risk children and teenagers in Brooklyn. Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services: $350,000 to enhance the social and emotional functioning of at-risk youth in elementary and high schools and prevent at-risk behaviors that often lead to addiction and violence, as well as to train counselors and other school employees. Brooklyn Hispanic Chamber of Commerce: $60,000 to extend its “Business Incubator” programs that educate communities on how to run and manage small businesses. New York Industrial Retention Network: $60,000 to provide technical assistance and financing to manufacturers who are seeking to implement energy conservation projects. Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation: $80,000 for the organization’s “Plan Ahead Brooklyn” program, which provides technical workshops to link industrial businesses with the resources they need to develop long-term plans for sustainable business growth. El Puente: $500,000 to develop a community health institute and wellness center where Brooklyn youth and their families can receive assistance with disease prevention and management. Make the Road New York: Make the Road New York: $200,000 to support an English and Economic Literacy Project, which provides language and financial education in low-income, primarily immigrant communities. St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation: $150,000 to establish a workforce program that provides training in environmental remediation and commercial driver’s license operation, and connects employers with job seekers. Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation: $450,000 for improvements to the Moore Street Market, known as “La Marqueta.” These resources will help the organization create stalls for additional vendors, build a shared commercial kitchen space for food vendors, construct a community meeting space, and improve the building’s energy efficiency. Brooklyn Heights Association: $450,000 to reinstall historic lighting in the neighborhood. These improvements will help promote Brooklyn's burgeoning tourism industry. ###
12.07.2009	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today unveiled legislation to provide New York City’s public housing residents with the training and certification needed to secure new jobs. As the City’s unemployment rate remains above 10 percent, the Congresswoman is helping New Yorkers find work in home healthcare services. During a visit to the Bushwick Senior Center, she discussed how her bill would create 6,000 jobs in New York City alone, while simultaneously increasing assistance for thousands of senior and disabled tenants. “This effort meets the needs of our community by helping to lift public housing residents out of poverty and providing care for those who need it most. We need to find creative, new ways to help New Yorkers get back to work, and this bill does just that,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. The “Together We Care Act of 2009” establishes a three-year federal pilot training program specializing in home healthcare services. Public housing residents will be given the opportunity to receive home health services training from organizations certified by the state. Following certification, the newly trained aides would be matched with elderly or disabled individuals who are Medicaid-eligible. The legislation would provide the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with $2.5 million per year to support the effort. “Home care is a profession that will be in high demand for years to come and this legislation will offer hard-working public housing residents with the tools they need to enter this field. By training New Yorkers in a certified trade, we can help turn the local economy around,” Velázquez said. Due, in part, to demographic trends, the home care profession is expected to continue growing in the coming decades. By 2030, one in five Americans will be age 65 or older. To help seniors remain in comfortable, non-institutionalized settings, home care workers will be needed and it has been estimated that the field will expand by 51 percent between 2006 and 2016. In addition to helping older Americans live independently, home care is a cost-effective option for providing assistance to seniors. The expense of nursing home care is more than double that of providing home care for an individual. “More than one-third of our City’s public housing households are headed by an elderly person, and the need for caring, competent aides is increasing rapidly. This legislation will help keep families together and strengthen the bonds between neighbors,” Velázquez said. The “Together We Care Act of 2009” will be introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives. At today’s press conference, Velázquez was joined by representatives from AARP, New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) and Service Employees International Union (SEIU), the nation’s largest health care union. All of the groups have endorsed the bill and are calling for its swift passage. ###
11.18.2009	Washington, DC –U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today released a statement condemning the brutal murder of Jorge Steven López Mercado, a Puerto Rican teenager who was the victim of a hate crime. The following is Velázquez’s statement: “The attack and murder of Jorge Steven López Mercado was a brutal and monstrous act. Those responsible must be held accountable. Crimes motivated by hate are unacceptable and will not be tolerated. I call on the investigators assigned to this case to lead a full, unbiased investigation into this heinous crime. “All Americans have a fundamental right to feel safe in their communities. Sadly, hate crimes plague far too many neighborhoods across the country. The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act was signed into law just weeks ago to strengthen enforcement against hate crimes. The prosecution should make full use of these federal laws and help ensure that offenses motivated by bigotry and hate are put to an end.” ###
11.07.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act: "I rise in support of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. For too long, millions of Americans have suffered without access to the medical treatment they need. Right now, as we debate this measure on the floor, too many Americans are worrying about how they will find health care coverage if they lose their job. On this day alone, 14,000 Americans will lose their coverage. And millions of our citizens, including one in three Hispanics, lack health insurance coverage. "Today, all of that changes. No longer will insurance companies abandon Americans when they most need help. This bill will end the practice of denying Americans coverage because of preexisting conditions. 36 million uninsured Americans will finally have coverage. Choice, competition and transparency will be brought to the insurance market, meaning better care at lower costs. I say this to my colleagues: it has been too long. Let us pass this bill." ### Click here for video of Rep. Velázquez's floor statement.
11.07.2009	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, by a vote of 220-215. U.S. Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the legislation. The following is Velázquez’s statement: “For too long, millions of Americans have suffered without access to the medical treatment they need. Right now, too many Americans worry about how they will find health care coverage if they lose their job. On this day alone, 14,000 Americans will lose their coverage. And millions of our citizens, including one in three Hispanics, lack health insurance coverage. “With this bill, all of that will change. No longer will insurance companies abandon Americans when they most need help. This legislation will end the practice of denying Americans coverage because of preexisting conditions. 36 million uninsured Americans will finally have coverage. Choice, competition and transparency will be brought to the insurance market, meaning better care and lower costs. “With health insurance premiums in our City climbing at astonishing rates, this reform could not come soon enough. In April 2009, the average monthly cost for family health coverage topped $4,350, putting insurance out of reach for many New Yorkers. H.R. 3962 will make insurance more affordable with credits that help low-income residents pay for coverage and by improving Medicare for our seniors. “These problems have plagued our City and our nation for too long. It is time, at long last, to enact comprehensive health care reform. Today’s vote brings us one step closer to achieving a health care system that works for all Americans.” ###
10.30.2009	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement regarding the unveiling of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. With the introduction of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, we are a step closer to achieving a health care system that works for all Americans. Nationwide approximately 47 million people are uninsured including over 8 million children. This is not only unacceptable it is inexcusable and immoral. H.R. 3962 will help ensure access to quality care for everyone. “When it comes to our health insurance, Americans have accepted the status quo for far too long. As a result, an estimated 2.4 million New Yorkers are uninsured, with the largest stress placed on minority and low-income communities. And for those who are covered, rising costs are hurting families and burdening many small businesses that are struggling to provide coverage for their employees. “I am committed to seeing legislation enacted that will make it possible for all New Yorkers to find quality, affordable health care and expand Medicaid for our seniors. With health care premiums in New York City climbing by as much as 13% in just one year, we cannot afford to wait any longer. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see reform swiftly passed into law.” The following is a link to the text of H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act: https://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf ###
10.29.2009	Washington, DC –The development of a “Sponge Park” along Brooklyn’s Gowanus Canal took another step forward this afternoon when the FY 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations conference report was approved in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill included $300,000 for the project, which will incorporate greenery along the banks of the Canal to manage excess runoff and help improve water quality. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) believes this innovative project will offer much-needed open spaces for the community while also improving the environmental conditions. “Our neighbors living near the Gowanus Canal deserve a healthy environment, with plenty of public space where they can enjoy this urban waterfront. This project will decrease water pollution from surface runoff and bring long-term benefits to the beautiful and vibrant Brooklyn neighborhood,” Velázquez said. The Gowanus Canal Conservancy first unveiled its design plans, which include a series of public waterfront spaces, in April 2008. The federal resources will help bring the Sponge Park to life by funding the installation of grass and other greenery along the sidewalks and on terraces bordering the Canal. The plants chosen for the area will absorb rainwater and naturally break down toxins. The strategies put in place will significantly decrease the amount of runoff entering the Canal and remediate contaminants in the water. By coupling the funds included in H.R. 2996 with the local group’s plan, this park will become an asset for the Brooklyn community. “For decades, industrial and environmental pollution have plagued the Gowanus Canal. By joining together with community advocates and environmentalists, we can clean up the Canal and make this a better place for the working families who live in Brooklyn,” Velázquez said. The FY 2010 Interior Appropriations conference report was approved in the U.S. House by a vote of 247-178. It will now go to the Senate for final approval before being signed into law by the President. ###
10.20.2009	Washington, DC – During today’s early morning commute, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) joined NYC Council Speaker Christine Quinn and Council Member Diana Reyna in an effort to alert the Bushwick community to an alleged hate crime committed on September 23, 2009. The leaders urged individuals with knowledge of the crime to call the City’s Crime Stoppers Hotline. The incident, in which a Hispanic male was assaulted, is being investigated by the NYPD Hate Crimes Task Force Unit. Velázquez has co-sponsored legislation, H.R. 2684, to create a National Hate Crimes Hotline. The service would be modeled after the National Domestic Violence Hotline, with a goal of increasing both the reporting of and local responsiveness to hate crimes. The recent Bushwick attack was not reported until more than two weeks after it was committed. The following is Congresswoman Velázquez’s statement: “Whether the victim is black or white, gay or straight, man or a woman – crimes motivated by hate, as this one appears to be, are unacceptable and will not be tolerated. The diversity in Bushwick is part of what makes this neighborhood strong and it needs to be protected. “Along with Congressmen Steve Israel and Jose Serrano, I introduced legislation that would make it easier and safer for victims of hate crimes to get help. By making information more accessible as well as giving police the tools needed to apprehend criminals, this bill offers the protection residents need and helps prevent such crimes from happening in the future. “As we approach the one year anniversary of the deadly beating of Jose Sucuzhañay, we must send the message that crimes motivated by hate are not tolerated in our City. I call on anyone who has information about this crime to come forward immediately.” ###
10.16.2009	Washington, DC –Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement today urging the Environmental Protection Agency to complete its review and designate the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek as federal Superfund sites: “Securing a healthy environment for New York City families is the single most important factor in choosing a course of action for cleaning both the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek. Superfund designation will thoroughly remove hazards and transform these waterways into a source of pride for our community. “Among the most contaminated sites in the country, the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek have threatened the health of New Yorkers for long enough and kept these neighborhoods from realizing their full potential. With nearly three decades of experience, the EPA has the expertise and resources to carry out a comprehensive remediation of these sites, creating a safe place for New Yorkers to live and work. Through the EPA’s help, these local treasures will become a revitalized waterfront for the people of Brooklyn. “The Superfund program establishes an equitable process for restoring accountability and invigorating the Gowanus Canal and Newtown Creek. What we have before us is a means to fully protect the well being of New Yorkers, as well as ensure future growth and responsible development in our neighborhoods. “Efforts to transform Brooklyn’s waterfront have brought the community together and have resulted in the many innovative projects underway. Superfund designation will complement these efforts. By working together we will fully restore both the functionality and beauty of these sites.” ###
10.05.2009	Washington, DC – Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives approved $134,000 in federal resources for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study currently underway at the Gowanus Canal and Bay. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations conference report. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) applauded the funding as the next step toward completing this important study. “The Army Corps study is nearing completion, and its findings will play a critical role in developing our next steps for clean-up and habitat restoration at the Gowanus Canal,” Velázquez said. “The funding approved today will move us closer to cleaning up the canal for future generations.” The Gowanus Canal is a 1.5 mile water body that connects with New York Harbor and Hudson and East River estuaries. Over the years, the canal has suffered decades of pollution from industrial sources, storm water runoffs and sewer overflows. The total cost for the Gowanus Canal and Bay Ecosystems Restoration Feasibility Study is projected to be $5 million with funding equally split between the federal government and local sources. To date, the federal government has committed $2.25 million for the study, which will help guide future efforts to clean up the canal. “This project is laying the groundwork for a clean future for the Gowanus Canal. Working together, we can secure a healthy environment for the residents of Southwest Brooklyn to live, work and raise their families,” Velázquez said. The study will be an important step toward creating a safer and healthier community for Brooklyn residents and allowing sustainable development along the Gowanus Canal and throughout the local area. The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations conference report must now be approved by the Senate before being signed into law by the President. ###
10.02.2009	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) presented Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation (CHLDC) with $122,821 in federal resources to help spur economic development in the community. The funds will support the Cypress Hills Economic Revitalization Initiative (CHERI), a program aimed at strengthening local entrepreneurs, providing job training, foreclosure prevention and financial literacy. This is part of a larger federal investment, totaling more than $850,000, which the organization has received over the past year. “This new program will bolster the local economy by helping entrepreneurs run successful businesses, assisting workers with finding jobs and keeping homeowners in their homes,” said Congresswoman Velázquez At today’s event, Velázquez applauded Cypress Hills LDC on offering a wide range of services specific to the needs of residents in the current economic environment. CHLDC will help ensure prospective homeowners know their rights, options and responsibilities. Unemployed workers will have access to assistance with interview preparation and resume writing, as well as job referral services. The new program will also support local entrepreneurs operating family day care businesses by making technical assistance more readily available. “During these very hard economic times, the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation has been working tirelessly to line up resources and services to assist our community’s most vulnerable and neediest make it through the recession. We are deeply grateful to Congresswoman Velazquez for her efforts in bringing federal dollars back to Cypress Hills for critical workforce development, small business assistance and human services,” said Michelle Neugebauer, Executive Director, Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation. In addition to the most recent funding, Congresswoman Velázquez has assisted Cypress Hills in obtaining a number of federal grants over the past year. These include a $505,744 Youth Build from the U.S. Department of Labor, a $100,000 Weed and Seed grant from the U.S. Department of Justice, and a $135,000 Head Start grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The resources are being used to expand Head Start services, train disconnected youth in the construction trades and help them gain their high school equivalency diplomas, protect against violence, and assist New Yorkers in surviving the recession. ###
09.24.2009	New York City – Representatives Nydia Velázquez (D – Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens) and Anthony D. Weiner (D – Brooklyn and Queens) today commented on the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement that it would nominate Newtown Creek, home to the largest coastal oil spill in American history, to its National Priorities List of Superfund sites. This begins the process of making the companies responsible for the pollution pay for the cleanup of Newton Creek, one of the most populated waterways in the country. The Creek divides Greenpoint, Brooklyn and Maspeth, Queens, and is home to over 446,000 local residents, including: 50 schools, senior centers, playgrounds, and hospitals. The nomination is the result of years of work by Reps. Velázquez and Weiner to direct much-needed federal attention and resources to Newtown Creek. In 2006, Rep. Weiner passed an amendment 415-0 to the Coast Guard Act to require the EPA to study the public health and environmental risks from the Newtown oil spill. The results of that study found that the spill may be larger than originally estimated, but left many questions unanswered. In 2008, Representatives Weiner and Velázquez secured a commitment from the EPA to conduct a new series of tests at four high-priority sites along the Creek to further evaluate the scope of contamination. Congress approved $1.89 billion to pay for Superfund sites in 2009 - $600 million came from this year’s Recovery Act. Now that the site has been nominated to the National Priorities List, a 60-day public comment period begins. If the site is designated a Superfund site, a four-step process will be initiated to clean up the area. First, the site would undergo immediate stabilization to stop any immediate threats to the community, if necessary, by taking measures such as erecting a security fence or repairing a hazardous waste storage unit. Then the EPA would perform a comprehensive investigation of the site and analyze clean up options. The EPA would then work to develop a plan to clean up the site. Finally, the EPA would clean up the site or force responsible parties to do the necessary work. Rep. Velázquez said, “The contamination in and around Newtown Creek is of catastrophic proportions and Greenpoint residents have suffered the consequences for too long. Inclusion in EPA’s National Priorities List may help determine the best approach for cleaning up the creek. As the process continues, I look forward to examining the data as well as working with federal, state and city officials to identify a comprehensive plan to reclaim the pride of Brooklyn’s waterfront and protect New Yorkers.” Rep. Weiner said, “I am pleased to see that while the oil companies lag in their cleanup responsibilities and put the health and safety of Newtown Creek's residents at further risk, the EPA has decide to take action and hold these companies responsible for their negligence. Newton Creek is the single most polluted waterway in New York City, a legacy left by more than a century of heavy industrial activity.” The Superfund program is the federal government’s principal program to cleanup the nation’s hazardous waste sites. Despite containing an oil spill one and a half times as large as the Exxon Valdez spill, Newtown Creek is not a part of the federal Superfund program and testing has not been completed by the EPA for admission into the nation’s Superfund program. In 1978, the Newtown Creek spill was originally estimated at 17 million gallons – one and a half times larger than Exxon Valdez. Evidence of the spill has been found across 55 acres, seeping into the Creek and settling under homes and businesses in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. It is the single most polluted waterway in New York City, a legacy left by more than a century of heavy industrial activity. ###
09.09.2009	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) made the following comments tonight after the President’s address to a Joint Session of Congress regarding health care: “Rising health insurance costs are hurting families and burdening many small businesses that are trying to do right by their employees. Too many Americans, including almost one in three Hispanics, lack health insurance coverage. These challenges are not going away and they demand action. “Tonight, the President shared his vision for health care reform, but, as he has done throughout this debate, he also demonstrated his desire to reach consensus with those on all sides of this difficult issue. President Obama laid out a platform that would take important strides to expand insurance coverage for Americans. I look forward to working with the President, the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to achieve these critical goals.” ###
08.21.2009	NEW YORK – A Brooklyn financial institution has been selected to receive a $700,000 award from the U.S. Department of Treasury in support of its efforts to provide financial services to underserved communities. The First American International Bank will use the funds to offer affordable home mortgage loans, housing development loans, commercial real estate loans and home improvement loans to the local community. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the local bank for providing responsible lending opportunities to New Yorkers. “With a history of predatory lending targeting working and minority communities in New York, it’s vitally important to support financial institutions that offer affordable loans in the neighborhoods that need it most,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “These resources can go far to help expand affordable housing developments across Brooklyn.” The First American International Bank is one of over 1,000 Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) operating across the country. Founded ten years ago in Sunset Park, the bank was created to predominately serve a large community of hard-working Chinese residents and recent immigrants. The bank now has nine branches and four mortgage/credit offices across New York City: Chinatown in Manhattan; Sunset Park in Brooklyn; Flushing, and Elmhurst and Forest Hills in Queens. With over $560 million in assets, First American is the fastest-growing and the largest New York, locally-owned Chinese community bank in the last 20 years. “The First American International Bank embodies the mission of CDFIs by responding to gaps that exist in local financial markets. In addition to providing affordable loans, the bank has made great strides in educating New York’s Chinese-American population about responsible saving and lending practices,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. The Treasury Department resources were allocated by the CDFI Fund’s Bank Enterprise Award (BEA) Program. The BEA Program was created to increase access to loans, investments and financial services in distressed communities. Through the BEA Program, the CDFI Fund recognizes the key role banks play in promoting community revitalization by helping residents open new savings accounts, providing mortgages and investing in local small businesses. ###
07.30.2009	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved $1.5 million in funding for a Red Hook small business to develop a safer and more effective way to drop cargo needed for military operations. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Department Appropriations Act. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) said the funds will support a Brooklyn manufacturer and allow the high-tech company to expand and hire more workers. “The innovative thinking of small business owners is helping lead our nation toward economic recovery. I am pleased to support a New York manufacturer in its efforts to develop a product that helps keep our troops abroad safe, while creating new job opportunities locally,” said Velázquez, who chairs the U.S. House Committee on Small Business. Atair Aerospace works with state-of-the-art parachute designs and tracking systems to modernize military and government logistics. The company’s headquarters and manufacturing facilities are located in Red Hook, employing a staff of 24, including seven U.S. veterans. The funding approved by the House will help the company complete development and field test its “Onyx Precision Guided Airdropped Equipment.” These GPS-guided parachute systems will be used by the U.S. Army for airdrops of medical supplies and other cargo. The product will be able to drop cargo at altitudes up to 35,000 feet, at speeds up to 165 MPH, and with a precision of 75 meters. Using precision airdrop helps to free up military personnel, trucks, and helicopters by reducing the number of convoys and helicopter drops. “As Chairwoman of the Small Business Committee, I understand how difficult it can be for firms to access the resources needed to develop new products and grow their businesses,” Velázquez added. “These funds will assist a growing firm develop cutting-edge technologies right here in Brooklyn.” The FY2010 Defense Appropriations bill passed the House by a vote of 400 to 30. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for approval. ###
07.29.2009	“When Olga Mendez was elected to the New York Senate in 1978, she paved the way both for Puerto Ricans and women who sought elected office. She was a fearless leader in New York City, a dedicated public servant, a fighter for the working class and a force to be reckoned with. Today, I mourn her loss. “Ms. Mendez lived a remarkable life and accomplished tremendous victories on behalf of hard working New Yorkers. She cared deeply about her community, fighting for those who call East Harlem and the South Bronx home. The contributions made during more than a quarter century of service to New York as a member of the Senate, community activist and fighter for the underprivileged will be remembered for generations to come. “I offer my deepest condolences to her family and friends. She will be remembered as a trailblazer who led the way for many Puerto Rican women to achieve firsts. I am proud to have followed in those footsteps.” ###
07.28.2009	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives approved $850,000 to benefit three programs in New York’s 12th Congressional District. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) said the funds will be used to provide career training services, English language education and community health resources to low-income residents. She pledged to continue working to support local organizations that bring vital services to New York City’s working families. “These organizations exemplify the longstanding New York City tradition of neighbors helping neighbors. Their programs help low-income and immigrant populations obtain job training, health care and English language education,” Velázquez said. The funding Velázquez secured in the Labor, Health and Education appropriations bill will benefit three important projects: El Puente: $500,000 from the Health and Human Services’ Center for Disease Control and Prevention for developing a community health institute and wellness center. It will provide Brooklyn youth and their families with information on disease prevention and management. The health initiative will focus on diseases that impact the North Brooklyn community, including obesity, diabetes, STDs, HIV/AIDS and environmentally-connected diseases like asthma. Make the Road New York: $200,000 from the Labor Department’s Employment and Training Administration to support an English and Economic Literacy Project, which provides language and financial education in low-income, primarily immigrant communities. The program will target women in the Bushwick community, seeking to help the residents acquire the written and conversational language skills needed to gain long-term employment. In addition, participants will be taught about the importance of financial planning, debt management and budgeting. St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation: $150,000 from the Labor Department’s Employment and Training Administration to establish a workforce program that provides training in environmental remediation and commercial driver’s license operation, and connects employers with job seekers. St. Nick’s is working with the Partnership of Brownfield Practitioners to prepare low-skilled workers for careers in green jobs in the Brownfield remediation industry. These funds will support 35 workers in the first year of the program’s implementation. “By equipping New Yorkers with the skills and resources needed to lead healthy lives and acquire good jobs, we can help them rise out of poverty and strengthen our local communities,” said Velázquez. On Friday, July 24, the FY2010 Labor, Health and Education Appropriations bill passed the House by a vote of 264 to 153. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for approval. ###
07.27.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), along with her Puerto Rican colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives, has sent a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi insisting that residents of Puerto Rico and the other U.S. territories be fully included in any version of health care reform legislation that comes out of Congress. The following is the text of their letter to Speaker Pelosi: July 24, 2009 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: In the 111th Congress, the most promising effort we have seen in recent history is underway to make health care a reality for the millions of uninsured and under-insured in the United States. As representatives of diverse constituencies, we are prepared and eager to begin debate on this comprehensive health reform legislation. However, there is a real danger that this bill would create two different realities: one for Puerto Rico and the territories, and one for the rest of the country. Madam Speaker, H.R. 3200, “America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009” may not bring affordable health insurance coverage to Puerto Rico and the territories’ 4.5 million U.S. residents. This historic health legislation currently excludes residents of our territories from major initiatives intended to provide affordable access to health insurance. We understand the difficulties our caucus faces in dealing with the health care debate, and Puerto Rico and the territories present a challenge in the midst of addressing the needs of the country as a whole. However, the need for care among these U.S. citizens can not be ignored because they live far away, they are poor, or because it is too expensive. This serious omission has brought us together insisting that it be addressed before the bill is adopted. We all are extremely supportive of efforts to create health care parity for the people of Puerto Rico. The challenge of bringing affordable health care to the entire nation is a task of enormous complexity and difficulty, and the accomplishment of enacting this historical effort will be due in large part to your strong leadership. However, the true measure of success will be providing affordable coverage for all Americans, no matter where they live. Regardless of how difficult or tempting it may be to cut the territories out of this health reform, it simply can not happen. It is our moral obligation to provide residents of the U.S. territories with the same opportunities as everyone else. Therefore, we stand together in asking that Puerto Rico be treated as a State and included as part of the health care reform bill, H.R. 3200. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress Luis V. Gutierrez Pedro R. Pierluisi Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
07.24.2009	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives has approved $800,000 in federal resources to revitalize Brooklyn’s Moore Street Market and refurbish historic features in the Brooklyn Heights neighborhood. The projects were included in the FY2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) said the two projects would strengthen Brooklyn communities by promoting local commerce and tourism. “I am pleased to support projects that improve our neighborhoods for the benefit of residents, business owners and visitors. By fixing up a Brooklyn marketplace and beautifying a historic neighborhood, we can help small businesses succeed and draw new consumers to the area,” Velázquez said. Under the bill, the Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation (BEDC) would receive $400,000 in funds for improvements to the Moore Street Market, known as “La Marqueta.” This will include creating stalls for additional vendors, building a shared commercial kitchen space for food vendors, constructing a community meeting space, and improving the building’s energy efficiency. Velázquez has worked for years to preserve the Moore Street Market. When faced with the possibility of its closure in 2007, she secured $250,000 in federal resources for the development a strategic plan to ensure the market’s long-term economic sustainability. Earlier this year, the merchants negotiated a five-year lease agreement with the New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC), and they continue to implement improvements that will keep the market viable in coming years. “La Marqueta is an asset to the neighborhood, providing a place for the community to gather, shop and discover authentic cultural experiences. I will remain a partner of the hard working entrepreneurs who have made the market an economic engine for the neighborhood and employ dozens of workers,” Velázquez said. The U.S. House also approved $400,000 in funding for the Brooklyn Heights Association to reinstall historic lighting in the neighborhood. The funding will go toward replacing the aluminum pole lighting with reproductions of the original, 20th Century cast-iron “Bishop’s Crook” and “M-Pole” street lights. This area, which in 1965 was designated as New York City’s first historic district, is now one of Brooklyn’s most popular tourist destinations. “Brooklyn Heights has preserved its identity as an old New York neighborhood, and today draws many to experience the history and beauty of the area. The Brooklyn Heights Association is dedicated to improving the community for residents and businesses, and I am pleased to help them maintain this urban gem,” Velázquez said. The FY2010 T-HUD Appropriations bill passed the House yesterday evening by a vote of 256 to 168. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for approval. ###
07.20.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today heard testimony from federal, state and city housing officials, and advocates during a Congressional field hearing she hosted at New York City Hall. The meeting of the U.S. House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity focused on two of the Congresswoman’s proposals that work to address key challenges facing public housing residents - employment opportunities and health care access for senior residents. The hearing comes on the heels of new joblessness numbers showing unemployment in the City has skyrocketed to 9.5 percent. “With New York City home to the largest public housing authority in the nation, it is critical that efforts to improve affordable housing take into account the needs and priorities of the local community,” said Velázquez. “Today’s hearing provided a venue to discuss the difficulties New York residents face in securing employment and accessing health care options.” In 2008, 42 percent of families living in public housing across the country were headed by a person who was eligible to work but was not bringing in earnings. The Congresswoman is determined to help public housing and other assisted housing residents find employment by linking them with effective training and opening the door to new job opportunities. In New York City, the average family income for public housing residents is just $22,728, underscoring the need to provide job placement and training in these communities. “Career training is essential to lifting families out of poverty,” Velázquez said. “By expanding these programs we can strengthen our communities and provide greater opportunity for all New Yorkers.” The initiatives discussed today focus on providing job training to housing assistance recipients. Since 2003, Velázquez has promoted legislation that would connect low-income New Yorkers with training to carry out federal contracting projects in their own communities. The initiative would strengthen “Section 3” Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) requirements that are meant to guarantee that those living in HUD facilities are given some of the work for federal HUD contracts. The Congresswoman has also worked on a proposal to train residents in home health care, which would both create job opportunities and offer care to the aging population living in federally assisted housing developments. “These programs help those in public housing learn valuable trades, and employ them in jobs that can better the local community,” added Velázquez. “Given the current downturn, initiatives like these are even more important to help hard working families develop new skills, find employment and help get our economy back on track.” Local advocacy groups, including the Good Old Lower East Side, Legal Aid Society, the Corporation for Supportive Housing, Supportive Housing Network of New York and the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute, have voiced support for the Congresswoman’s proposals. Both legislative initiatives are expected to be introduced in the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. ###
07.17.2009	Washington, DC –Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved $300,000 in federal resources for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study currently underway at the Gowanus Canal and Bay. The funding will be used to continue the environmental evaluation and indentify the best approach for restoring the canal ecosystem. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) worked to include this project in the FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. She is dedicated to cleaning-up the canal and bringing sustainable development to the area, and applauded the allocation of funds as the next step toward completing this important study. “The Army Corps has made significant progress in determining the extent of contamination at the Gowanus Canal, and this information has played a critical role in developing plans for clean-up and habitat restoration. I am working to bring the resources needed to complete this study and move on to the next step in the process,” Velázquez said. Over the past decade, Congresswoman Velázquez has secured more than $2.1 million in federal funding for the Gowanus Canal and Bay Ecosystem Restoration Feasibility Study. The total cost of the study is projected to be $5 million, with the federal government committing half the funds and the other half coming from local sources. The Army Corps has partnered with the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (NYC DEP) to complete the project and assess current environmental problems at the Gowanus Canal. The goal of the study is to determine the restoration measures needed to reduce contamination, create wetland areas, and improve water movement and quality. “The residents of Southwest Brooklyn deserve a healthy environment to live, work and raise their families. The Army Corps study is playing an important role in promoting a clean future for neighbors of the Gowanus Canal,” Velázquez said. The Army Corps research is being used to determine the best method for remediating the Gowanus Canal. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recently nominated the Gowanus Canal for Superfund designation. An open comment period on the Superfund nomination ended on July 8, 2009. The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for approval. ###
07.16.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) delivered the following testimony during the Senate Judiciary Committee’s confirmation hearing for Judge Sonia Sotomayor to be an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. “Thank you, Chairman Leahy, Ranking Member Sessions, and Members of the Committee. I have known Sonia Sotomayor for over twenty years. In fact, when I was first elected to Congress in 1993, I asked her to administer my oath of office. I can tell you personally that she is a grounded and professional individual. And, over the last three and a half days, all of us have been able to see her considerable legal ability impressively displayed. Hispanics everywhere are proud that such a distinguished legal talent hails from our community. We have all been energized by her nomination. But of course, that is not the reason why she should be confirmed. The case for Judge Sotomayor’s confirmation is built on her vast experience, keen intellect and tremendous qualifications. It is not that Judge Sotomayor does not have a compelling life history. She does. As so many have already pointed out, hers is a uniquely American story – one that begins in the Bronx projects and, ultimately, reaches the highest echelons of our legal system. This background instilled within her the belief that hard work is rewarded, and the knowledge that – with the right combination of talent and effort – anything is possible. These core values propelled Sonia Sotomayor to remarkable heights. As her career progressed, she managed to reach nearly every level of the legal system. With each new step, she excelled, not only as a prosecutor and a litigator, but also as an appellate judge. And yet, throughout that process of achievement, she never once lost touch with her roots, or her Bronx neighborhood. Instead, she augmented her vast legal experience with a commonsense understanding of working class America. That appreciation will add a valuable perspective to the Supreme Court. Make no mistake – the stakes are high for Hispanic Americans. The Supreme Court will rule on many matters that are critical to our community, from housing policy to voting rights. These are delicate issues. With many of these matters, passions run deep on both sides. Resolving them fairly will require objectivity, impartiality, and an unwavering commitment to the rule of law. Judge Sotomayor’s record demonstrates these qualities. She has a reputation as a non-ideological jurist – someone who chooses not to spar with those who think differently, but to instead find common ground. When working with Republican colleagues, Sotomayor’s record will show that – 95% of the time – she managed to forge consensus. She was able to do this because she commands a sophisticated grasp of legal arguments, and has a keen awareness of the law’s effects on everyday Americans. When the Congressional Hispanic Caucus reviewed a broad range of qualified Supreme Court candidates, these were the traits we were looking for. We were looking for individuals who upheld constitutional values, exhibited a record of integrity, and had a profound respect for our constitution. It is our overwhelming belief that Judge Sotomayor meets these criteria. That is why we enthusiastically – and unanimously – endorsed her nomination. Senators, the decision before the Committee today is one of your greatest responsibilities. I know this is something none of you, on either side of the aisle, take lightly. But, I believe Judge Sotomayor’s record of judicial integrity, impartiality and, as she puts it, “fidelity to the law,” is one we can all admire – regardless of party or ideology. If confirmed, Judge Sotomayor’s service on the Court will bring great pride to the Hispanic community. That goes without saying. But, more importantly, it will add another objective, disciplined legal talent to that august body. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify. I look forward to answering any questions you may have.” ###
06.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), the Chairwoman of the House Committee on Small Business, has sent a letter to New York State Governor David Paterson and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, urging the leaders to include minority- and women-owned businesses in contracting opportunities made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The following is the text of Congresswoman Velázquez’s letter: June 26, 2009 Dear Governor Paterson and Mayor Bloomberg, As you know, the State of New York is as diverse a geographic area as any in the United States. We now boast substantial populations of African-Americans, Asians, and Hispanics and these communities are growing every day. With this demographic shift also come changes, including the challenge of integrating these new individuals as well as women into our local business communities. An important tool to accomplish this are the programs operated by the States Division of Minority and Women-Owned Business Development and the Citys Department of Small Business Services. With the recent passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (P.L. 111-5, hereafter ARRA), these initiatives are now more critical than ever before. The State of New York and MWOB Procurement Under ARRA The work of the States Division of Minority and Women-Owned Business Development should be singularly focused on one goal, which is the incorporation of minority- and women-owned businesses (MWOBs) into ARRA procurement actions. ARRA is a once-in-a-generation federal investment in transportation, energy, and infrastructure system, and with it comes the opportunity to use it as a catalyst for economic development. With nearly $10 billion in funding allocations already made to the State of New York pursuant to ARRA, it is crucial that MWOBs are a primary part of contracts let under this authority. Given the speed in which ARRA contracts are being entered into, however, there is a great concern that minority vendors without historical relationships with the State are not being included. Efforts must be made to certify more MWOBs for ARRA work quickly and to incorporate MWOBs into subcontracts for larger prime awards. While outreach is important, greater resources must be devoted immediately to making tangible and statistically measurable progress on this front. Application of Federal Small Business Protections to New York State ARRA Contracts Notably, Congress implicitly applied federal small business protections and goaling requirements in ARRA. Federal law provides that acquisitions exceeding $3,000 but less than $100,000 should automatically consider small businesses first if two or more interested small businesses could fulfill the contract. In addition, as part of the consideration in awarding a contract to a large company, the company and the government procurement officer negotiate a subcontracting plan, which is supposed to ensure that small businesses receive a fair proportion of the subcontract work available. Finally, agencies are encouraged, by statute, to award 23 percent of contract dollars to small companies. It is my hope that the States use of funds made available under ARRA embodies the spirit of these federal requirements and protections. New York City and MWOB Procurement The Citys effort to promote minorities in its procurement activities significantly lags behind the demographic reality of our community. The Preliminary Report on Minority and Women Business Enterprises provides troubling details on the lack of progress the City has made in reaching out to these contractors and vendors. Overall, through the first half of FY 2009, the Citys efforts have resulted in an extremely low number and dollar amount of contracts being awarded to minority and women businesses. Executive Order 71 and Local Law 129 have paved the way for minority- and women-owned firms to play a greater role in New York Citys economy. However, the implementation of these reforms has not resulted in the tangible progress so many had hoped for. The initiatives established by Local Law 129, most notably, the goals and agency enforcement mechanisms, have been underutilized to the point of becoming irrelevant. It is not surprising that the actions taken by the Department of Small Business Services in implementing this law have been criticized as being overtly cosmetic, rather than substantive in nature. Real change will only occur when the City is able to increase the amount of business they do with local minority and women companies and this can only be measured through hard procurement data not a few anecdotes. The State and the Citys effort to maximize participation by our minority and women firms will not only benefit this sector, but it also makes good business sense. By using these companies many of which are the best and brightest in their field we can ensure that the State and the City are drawing on the highest quality companies to maximize tax payer dollars. This truly results in a win-win situation for everyone involved. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to working with you to increase opportunities for New Yorks minority and women businesses. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velzquez Chairwoman ###
06.29.2009	The proposed Sponge Park along the banks of the fetid Gowanus Canal is finally living up to its name in one way: it’s soaking up federal money. A pilot version of the park, whose name actually refers to how it will employ vegetation that would retain water and prevent sewer overflows on rainy days, could sprout thanks to a cool $300,000 earmark sponsored by Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-Carroll Gardens). “It would be a great amenity for the city,” said Susannah Drake, an architect. The Sponge Park is the brainchild of her design firm, dlandstudio, and the Gowanus Canal Conservancy. “The water is dirty and we have to start cleaning it up incrementally. We could use the Sponge Park to get the ball rolling.” The House appropriation isn’t enough to build a full-sized greenway alongside the infamous Lavender Lake, but it might be enough for a one-block esplanade. The designers say that plant life can reduce runoff into the canal as well as suck toxins out of the stagnant estuary. “This project would create much-needed public space, while addressing ongoing environmental concerns. Cleaning-up the Gowanus Canal will never be effective if we don’t also come up with solutions like the Sponge Park that prevent future contamination,” Velazquez said in a statement. Velazquez siphoned some cash to the park prototype as part of the annual Interior and Environmental Appropriations bill. It now awaits Senate approval. The daring idea to convert one of Brooklyn’s most polluted wastelands into an innovative park was unveiled over a year ago. Since then, the Conservancy has been courting the city for its support and several agencies have signaled their interest in the project. But the political landscape has shifted since the Sponge Park idea was born. Now, the city and federal government are locked in a debate about how to clean the Gowanus. The Environmental Protection Agency favors declaring the foul canal a Superfund site, a program that would force polluters, often with lengthy court battles, to pay for the bulk of the cleanup. The city argues it can do the work faster through its own proposal, an untested approach of voluntary cooperation from polluters and funding from the US Army Corps of Engineers. Any success of the Sponge Park plan could help Bob Zuckerman, the former head of the Gowanus Canal Conservancy and the Gowanus Canal Community Development Corporation, who is locked in a tough race for the City Council. Other candidates in the contest to succeed Councilman Bill DeBlasio are Brad Lander, Josh Skaller, John Heyer and Gary Reilly.
06.26.2009	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives has approved $300,000 in federal resources for the development of a “Sponge Park” esplanade along Brooklyn’s Gowanus Canal. The project, spearheaded by the Gowanus Canal Conservancy, incorporates greenery to absorb and manage excess surface runoff and help improve the water quality of the Canal. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) applauded the effort for taking an innovative approach to improving the quality of life for neighbors of the Gowanus Canal. “This project would create much-needed public space, while addressing ongoing environmental concerns. Cleaning-up the Gowanus Canal will never be effective if we don’t also come up with solutions like the Sponge Park that prevent future contamination,” Velázquez said. In April 2008, the Gowanus Canal Conservancy unveiled its design plan for the Sponge Park. The proposal, created by dlandstudio in Brooklyn, includes a series of public waterfront spaces. The project uses two strategies to naturally improve the water quality of the Canal. First, vegetated swales will be built alongside the sidewalks and planted terraces will be incorporated to absorb storm water runoff. Second, specific plants will be chosen that can absorb and break down toxins, heavy metals and biological contaminants from sewage. Combined, these strategies will significantly decrease the amount of runoff entering the Canal and remediate contaminants already in the water. “I am committed to securing federal resources for projects that make a real difference in the lives of working families. The residents of Brooklyn who live and work near the borders of the Gowanus Canal deserve better access to the waterfront and a place for outdoor recreation,” Velázquez said. Over the past decade, Congresswoman Velázquez has worked to clean-up the canal and bring sustainable development to the area. She has secured more than $2 million in federal funding for the Gowanus Canal and Bay Ecosystem Restoration Feasibility Study to identify the best approach for restoring the canal. The study is being conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers and the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (NYC DEP) to assess current environmental problems. Using data collected during this study to fully understand and evaluate the extent of contamination, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recently nominated the Gowanus Canal as a federal Superfund site. A public comment period on the nomination ends July 8, 2009. “My top priority is protecting the health of the community and fostering local economic development through the remediation process. A complete clean-up of the Gowanus Canal will bring long-term benefits to this beautiful and vibrant Brooklyn neighborhood,” Velázquez said. The funding for the Gowanus Canal Conservancy was included in the FY 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which was approved today. The resources will be allocated through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s STAG Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Project. The legislation now goes to the U.S. Senate for approval. ###
06.24.2009	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today sent a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi regarding her opposition to H.R. 2499, Puerto Rico status legislation introduced in the 111th Congress by Puerto Rico Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi. Velázquez does not support the bill because it would not allow the people of Puerto Rico to establish the process by which the island’s status would be determined. In the 110th Congress, Velázquez introduced legislation authorizing a constitutional convention, whose proposal would be ratified through a referendum and then submitted to Congress. The Congresswoman states in her letter, “The closed drafting process used to develop H.R. 2499 reflects a lack of collegiality and a mindset that seems dismissive of other points of view. This approach must not be sanctioned. It would be particularly unfortunate for such a non-transparent approach to be applied to an issue that is highly controversial and so central to the lives of all Puerto Ricans.” Congresswoman Velázquez’s letter to Speaker Pelosi may be downloaded here. Velázquez also submitted a statement to the House Committee on Natural Resources, which held a hearing on H.R. 2499 today. A copy of the statement may be downloaded here. ###
06.18.2009	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved $700,000 to benefit youth development efforts in New York’s 12th Congressional District. The funding included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) Appropriations bill was designated under the Department of Justice’s Juvenile Justice Program. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) hailed the resources as providing vital support to programs that give at-risk, New York City youth the opportunity to excel in school and the community. “Effective youth programs help New York City children and teens overcome the pressures they face daily. The funding in this bill will give local groups resources to help our youth prepare for their future successes,” Velázquez said. The funding Velázquez secured in the CJS bill will benefit three important projects in New York’s 12th Congressional District: Good Shepherd Services: $250,000 to support year-round, after-school programs for at-risk youth to promote individual, family and community development. Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services: $350,000 to enhance the social and emotional functioning of at-risk youth in elementary and high schools and prevent at-risk behaviors that often lead to addiction and violence, as well as to train counselors and other school employees. Kentler International Drawing Space, Inc.: $100,000 to support and expand arts education programs for at-risk children and teenagers in Brooklyn. In addition, Congresswoman Velazquez helped ensure the CJS bill includes important public safety measures that will increase the reporting and prosecution of hate crimes. The legislation sets aside $8 million so that civil rights violations, including hate crimes, are investigated and criminals are held responsible for their heinous acts. The bill also directs the Bureau of Justice Assistance to study the potential for establishing a national helpline for hate crimes victims. Earlier this month, Velázquez co-sponsored H.R. 2684, the National Hate Crimes Hotline Act of 2009, to increase the reporting of hate crimes through the creation of a national hotline. “New Yorkers have felt first-hand the impact that hate crimes can have on a community. We need to provide a safe place for victims to find help, and increase resources for local efforts to end hate and prevent these horrific acts,” Velázquez said. The legislation must now be approved in the U.S. Senate. ###
06.17.2009	NEW YORK - The Cypress Hills Local Development Center (LDC) will soon introduce a new education and job training program for Brooklyn youth, having received a $809,190 YouthBuild grant from the U.S. Department of Labor. The funding supports the creation of a program that will provide youth with hands-on experience building affordable housing for local families. The Cypress Hills LDC is one of only 183 groups across the country to receive this valuable award. Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the Cypress Hills LDC for their success in expanding their offerings to the community by tapping into valuable federal resources. “These funds are going to a dedicated organization that can provide Brooklyn youth with the education and employment skills they need to prepare for their futures. The YouthBuild program builds up the community while helping these young adults achieve success,” Velázquez said. The Cypress Hills LDC’s YouthBuild program, expected to begin in the coming months, will provide job training and educational opportunities for 60 at-risk youth, ages 16-24. The participants will learn to construct and rehabilitate affordable housing in their own neighborhoods, while working to earn their GED or high school diploma. The Cypress Hill program will partner with Solar Energy Systems (SES), a renewable energy company specializing in the design and installation of solar electric or photovoltaic systems, to help participants develop specialized skills. In addition, the Council of Carpenters will use Cypress Hills LDC as a referral source for the new Construction Trades certificate program at City Tech, which leads to union apprenticeships and future employment. “The Board of Directors and staff of the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation are thrilled to be designated a YouthBuild grantee and to be given this opportunity to help young people train for the emerging green construction trades, gain their high school equivalency diplomas, connect with support services in their own neighborhood, and participate in the rebuilding of Cypress Hills and East New York. We are extremely grateful to Congresswoman Velázquez for her national leadership in jump-starting the economy and bringing critical economic development initiatives home to her district,” said Michelle Neugebauer, Executive Director, Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation. Congresswoman Velázquez helps New York City organizations identify available grants and apply for federal assistance. Up-to-date information on grants is compiled and distributed monthly in her Grant Update. These reports are focused on grants that are most relevant to New York City non-profits, universities, community-based groups, faith-based organizations and small businesses. For more information about how your organization can benefit from federal grants, please visit: www.house.gov/velazquez/constituents/grants.html. ###
06.15.2009	NEW YORK - On Saturday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) presented leaders of the Highland Park Community Development Corporation (CDC) with $200,000 in federal resources to support their successful youth programs. The funding from the U.S. Department of Justice will help young adults succeed academically and develop positive relationships with their parents and peers. Attending a summer celebration at the Highland Park Children’s Garden, Congresswoman Velázquez highlighted the importance of programs that create a structured environment for youth, particularly in the months when school is out. “The Highland Park CDC helps our youth prepare for a positive future by teaching them how to resolve conflicts peacefully and set goals for achievement in school and the community,” Velázquez said. “I am committed to securing the federal resources needed to help expand the reach of community organizations with a track record of success.” The Highland Park CDC established the Values Education Through Cooperative Activities Program (VETCA) to provide at-risk youth with cultural and recreational activities that encourage teamwork and positive communication. For the past seven years, VETCA has provided opportunities for students to enhance their leadership skills, learn in a safe environment, and foster personal growth. During the school year, the VETCA program helps 120 students between the ages of 4-14 navigate their schoolwork and resolve conflicts in their lives. During the summer months, 75 youth benefit from their programming. The organization offers workshops and resources to parents so that encouragement and motivation for achievement continues at home. “Congresswoman Velázquez is supportive of our mission to improve the quality of life for Brooklyn families, starting with programs to help lift up our youngsters. These funds will allow the VETCA program to assist more youth with their etiquette and socialization skills development,” said Robert Santiago, Executive Director of the Highland Park CDC. In addition to their youth programs, the Highland Park CDC offers a wide variety of assistance for the local community. It operates the Tilden Hall Residential Facility, a NYC Tier II shelter program for 117 families, as well as a clothing bank and an emergency food bank. Workshops provide financial education and healthy living advice for working families. In addition, mentoring and intergenerational projects create lasting bonds between members of the community, and provide role models for young adults. ###
06.10.2009	From a brilliant legal scholar on the brink of serving in the highest court of the nation, to a celebrated arts curator who led the renovation efforts of the renowned Greek and Roman wings of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, to an advertising producer-turned-restaurateur with $100 million in sales -- this year's Top Ten New York Puerto Rican influentials are not only breaking down barriers, they are shattering stereotypes. LAW: Sonia Sotomayor The exceptional Bronx-born New York judge has been bursting through one ceiling after another in her lengthy 20-year legal career. And if she's confirmed by the Senate in the coming months, President Barack Obama's historic pick for the US Supreme Court will crack the highest legal ceiling of all. Growing up with a single mother in the Bronxdale housing projects, the 54-year-old judge's journey has been long and riddled with obstacles. "Although I grew up in very modest and challenging circumstances, I consider my life to be immeasurably rich. I am an ordinary person blessed with extraordinary opportunities and experiences," she said on the day of her momentous nomination. This Princeton and Yale grad is a living example of the American Dream. Politics: Rep. Nydia Velazquez Powerhouse Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, 56, has been instrumental in shepherding Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court. When she invited another Puerto Rican member of congress to meet Senators Charles Schumer and Kristen Gillibrand on the subject of Sotomayor months ago, the representative declined, saying he had no time. But the unstoppable Velazquez blazed forward. The Puerto Rico born-politician, who grew up in the sugarcane-producing town of Yabucoa, says that she feels one of her responsibilities is to seek out opportunities to improve the situations for those most in need. Philanthropy: Yaz Hernandez Imagine spending a year to plan one party. Well its not just any old party, it's a gala. The annual Museo Del Barrio extravaganza has guests like Carolina Herrera, Emilio Estefan, Isabel and Ruben Toledo and Jason Woo -- so you know you have to pull out all the stops. That's just one of the responsibilities that falls on Hernandez, vice chair of the Board of Trustees at the museum devoted to Latin American art. "The gala has become my passion. I dedicate myself almost 100 percent to that," says Hernandez, who since joining the board in 2003 has raised millions in funds and also raised awareness of the museum locally and nationally. "I like to inspire others with the work that I do," says the Puerto Rico-born Hernandez. "I think we need more people to dedicate themselves to this great cause. It's not just for Puerto Ricans. It's for all Latinos in New York City." Entertainment: Lin Manuel Miranda As writer, composer and lead actor of the Tony-wining musical "In the Heights," Lin Miranda, 29, made audiences fall in love with the barrio. He also performed some of his original poetry for President Obama and the First Lady at the White House's first-ever poetry slam last month. Community: Luis Ubiñas As president of the Ford Foundation, Bronx-born Luis Ubiñas, 46, has led the nation's second-oldest philanthropic organization in a fight for fairness. With assets of $12 billion to work with, he's dedicated to eradicating poverty. Health: Alan D. Aviles Health and Hospitals Corporation chief Alan Aviles is thrilled with the work he does in the nation's largest health-care system. "I'm proud of HHC's long history of caring for everyone, regardless of ability to pay or immigration status," said the Bronx-born Puerto Rican, 57, when he received the New York Immigration Coalition's "Builders of the New New York" award. Arts: Carlos Picón Despite the absence of a classical-art background while growing in San Juan, Puerto Rico, curator Carlos Picón of the Greek and Roman Department of the Metropolitan Museum of Art was able to able to make a name for himself nearly two decades ago when he plucked the Hope Dionysus out of obscurity. Before the towering, 7-foot sculpture became the centerpiece of the Greek and Roman exhibit hall, it adorned the swimming pool of an affluent family in Florida."It's wonderful to find a piece that's been forgotten about," he says. Picón's foray into the world of art acquisition did not happen by accident, it was a conscious decision. "I was a failed artist," he recalls. "When I realized that, the next best thing was to become an art critic." Picón also helmed his department's recent million-dollar renovation project. Sports and music: Bernie Williams Five-time All-Star Yankees player Bernie Williams knows how to make sweet music on and off the field. With the release of his sophomore album, "Moving Forward," featuring his unique classical- and jazz-guitar style, it's hard to put him in just one box. "I want to be known as the musician who once played baseball," says the 40-year-old. Business: Phil Suarez This self-described "Latin from Manhattan" has come far since his days selling Schaefer beer in El Barrio. He's now running a company with his longtime partner, chef Jean-Georges Vongeritchen, that has 3,000 employees and over $100 million in combined sales. He and Vongeritchen have an ambitious plan to open 50 new, high-end eateries in five years all over the world. This year alone, the schedule of openings includes Mexico City, Washington, Boston, Barcelona and Milan. If anybody can take haute cuisine to the global masses, it's Suarez. Fashion: Candy Pratts Price Vogue Editor Anna Wintour calls Style.com's executive fashion director, Candy Pratts Price, the "Queen of the Internet," and rightfully so. In 2008, she was awarded the Council of Fashion Designers of America's (CDFA) coveted Eugenia Sheppard Award for her exceptional creativity in shaping fashion visually through media. "You take a position and stand with it. You feed it, encourage it," she says. "That's very Latin, to embrace and nourish. That is a part of what makes me, me."
05.18.2009	NEW YORK – On Saturday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) presented the Graham Avenue Business Improvement District (BID) with $94,000 in federal resources from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The funding will strengthen the group’s farmers market program and bring fresh, healthy foods to the local community. In New York City, where 9 out of 10 residents do not eat the recommended daily servings of fruits and vegetables, increased access to fresh food is desperately needed. “The farmers market on Graham Avenue is a wonderful summertime tradition. It brings fresh, healthy foods to the community, while supporting entrepreneurship,” Velázquez said. “The weekend market provides a place to learn about healthy eating habits, and this easy access to fresh foods improves the lives of Brooklyn youth, adults and senior citizens.” This is the second time Congresswoman Velázquez has secured funds to ensure the vitality of the Graham Avenue Farmers Market, one of the longest running in the City. Previously, in 2005, she provided $100,000 to help the organization expand the scope of its program. Located on Cook Street at the corner of Graham Avenue in Williamsburg, the market will be open every Saturday and Sunday from July 11 – October 31, 2009. The market features vendors selling fresh produce, fruit and baked goods, and offers cooking demonstrations each week. To help make the market more accessible for the community, WIC and senior farmer’s market food coupons are accepted. “The Graham Avenue BID is deeply grateful to Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez for the funding she has again extended to our organization to support our farmers market on Cook Street. We hope to put it to good use for those who work in the market and for the community it serves,” said Leslie Drossman, President, Graham Avenue BID. The Graham Avenue BID is one of 60 business improvement districts in New York City. These BIDS contribute over $80 million worth of services to more than 70,000 small businesses in the city. In Williamsburg, the Graham Avenue BID represents the neighborhood’s largest shopping district. It provides support services to enhance opportunity and create a vibrant community for property owners, businesses, merchants and residents alike. For example, the farmers market program offers job training, youth entrepreneurship opportunities and community development, in addition to providing a fresh supply of produce. ###
05.12.2009	NEW YORK – Last night, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) held a workshop in downtown Brooklyn to help New York City small businesses gain information about assistance included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, as well as new federal contracting opportunities. As Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, Velázquez worked to ensure the sweeping economic legislation signed into law in February included lending initiatives and tax benefits to help entrepreneurs keep their businesses up and running. “The entrepreneurial spirit runs deep in New York City, from the artisans carrying on a centuries-old craft to the innovative manufacturers leading the new green economy,” Velázquez said. “The Recovery Act will help ensure our City’s small businesses not only stay afloat, but begin to lead us out of this economic downturn.” Officials from the Small Business Administration (SBA) and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) joined lenders and business development experts to educate local entrepreneurs about the resources available to help them expand their businesses. The Recovery Act includes a number of provisions expected to generate $21 billion in new lending and investment for small firms. For entrepreneurs in need of an immediate cash injection, a new, interest-free loan of $35,000 is available and fees have been eliminated on other SBA-backed loans. In the months since the Recovery Act was enacted, the volume of new SBA-backed loans has risen more than 20 percent and $1.3 billion in loans have been approved. This is a positive sign for businesses impacted by tightened lending practices. “I’ve heard first hand from New York small business owners who are trying to secure loans they need to start-up or expand their operations. The Recovery Act is helping to create new credit opportunities for entrepreneurs, and we have already begun to see a shift in the right direction,” said Rep. Velázquez. The Act provides $15 billion in tax relief to help put more money back in the pockets of entrepreneurs. Due to the many infrastructure projects funded in the Recovery Act, government contracting will become more active than ever and create opportunities for small businesses. Participants at the forum gained information on how to tap into the $500 billion federal marketplace and benefit from other Recovery Act provisions. In New York City, where small firms create 3 out of every 4 new jobs, entrepreneurial growth is needed to put the overall economy back on track. “This small business workshop brought together government officials and financial experts to show local entrepreneurs how they can take advantage of opportunities out there,” Velázquez said. “I will continue working to help our City’s small business owners, the hard-working people that create jobs and drive innovation.” ###
05.12.2009	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) met with public housing residents on the Lower East Side yesterday evening to discuss how the “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act” will impact the day-to-day lives of these working families. As a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, the Congresswoman worked to ensure $4 billion in funding was included to repair and rebuild decaying public housing facilities in New York City and across the country. “These resources will not only benefit tenants in public housing, but will strengthen the entire community by helping to put New Yorkers back to work,” Velázquez said. The New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) received $423 million to modernize and improve the safety of its buildings. Nearly half of the money, $209 million, has been directed to energy efficient efforts, including $135 million for vital roof repairs. Nearly $70 million will go toward high-priority repairs for 145 elevators in 11 developments. Across the City, the Economic Recovery funds for public housing are expected to create or preserve more than 3,200 jobs. In Congresswoman Velázquez’ district, the following projects will be funded with resources from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act: $570,000 for elevator repairs at Lower East Side I; $902,000 for roof replacement at Lower East Side II; $827,975 for roof replacement at Lower East Side V; and Additional funding for upgraded, energy efficient refrigerators and oven ranges at the Baruch, Borinquen Plaza, Bushwick Houses, Campos Plaza, Gompers Houses, Hope Gardens, LaGuardia, Riis Houses, Smith and Williamsburg developments. “This infusion of funds will improve the living conditions for more than 400,000 New Yorkers in public housing buildings. In my district alone, tenants in 11 developments will benefit immediately from energy efficient upgrades, elevator repairs and other renovations,” Velázquez said. Velázquez explained that the Recovery Act contains many benefits designed to help hard-working families make ends meet. The new Making Work Pay Credit provides 95 percent of New Yorkers with a tax cut of up to $800 for families. For those who lost their job as a result of the economic downturn, unemployment benefits have been extended to a total of 59 weeks and job training is available. In addition, food stamp benefits have been increased by 13 percent, providing an extra $80 per month to feed a family of four. As the Recovery Act puts more money in New Yorkers’ pockets, the new law will result in additional consumer spending, help stimulate local economic growth and create new jobs. “The Recovery Act provides the extra boost needed to help working families make ends meet during a difficult time,” Velázquez said. “It will strengthen the local economy by helping workers get back on their feet, creating thousands of new jobs for New Yorkers and investing in the future of our City.” ###
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (H.R. 1728) to protect consumers by curbing abusive lending practices. With home foreclosures impacting over two million homes between 2008 and 2009, this bill would make it illegal for lenders to make loans to borrowers who do not have a ‘reasonable ability to repay.’ Included in the legislation are two initiatives from Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) to protect families living in apartment buildings in New York City and to provide prospective homebuyers with increased access and information on the benefits of home inspections. “Predatory lending practices led us into the housing crisis, and by fighting back we can stop it in its tracks. These are simple, common-sense protections that will ensure New Yorkers find the right home with payments they can afford,” said Velázquez, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. Congresswoman Velázquez has worked to ensure that tenants in apartment buildings are protected from foreclosure, particularly those living in affordable housing complexes in New York City. Her measure, included in H.R. 1728, would require the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Treasury Department to develop a program to stabilize multifamily apartment buildings at risk of default, disinvestment and foreclosure. Many affordable housing complexes and other multi-family buildings have been financed with risky mortgages. Now, as the economy has slowed, owners and developers are at risk of default and the buildings could be left in serious disrepair. In New York City alone, between 60,000 to 90,000 units are at risk. “Tens of thousands of New York City families have paid their rent and followed the rules, but could be left in a deteriorating building because of bad bets made by irresponsible developers. A new program to stabilize troubled buildings is vitally important, especially in New York City where more than half of our residents rent,” Velázquez said. In addition, the Congresswoman has worked to ensure consumers receive information about the benefits of a home inspection. The bill approved today includes an initiative, based on Velázquez’s Consumer Protection Home Inspection Counseling Act (H.R. 2130), that requires counselors at the Department of Housing and Urban Development to be trained on voluntary home inspections. The initiative also includes a public outreach campaign targeting low-income and first-time home buyers. “A professional inspection gives consumers a leg up when dealing with lenders and can save thousands of dollars in repairs down the road,” said Velázquez. “Improved counseling services will empower New Yorkers to make informed decisions about what is best for them and avoid predatory lending practices.” ###
05.01.2009	Washington, D.C. – Social Security recipients in New York City will soon receive $250 economic recovery payments provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) announced today. Checks will begin to go out tomorrow, May 7, with the goal of all payments being sent by the end of May. Payments to recipients of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits will also begin to go out by mid-May. In New York’s 12th Congressional District, $23.44 million will be distributed to Social Security and SSI recipients in the coming weeks. “These economic recovery payments can make a real difference in the lives of millions of older and disabled residents – many of whom have been hit especially hard by the economic crisis,” Velázquez said. “Across the state, more than 2.8 million New Yorkers will receive a $250 payment to help meet some of their basic needs, and the funding should boost the local economy through consumer spending.” Millions of Social Security recipients receiving economic recovery payments are widowed, divorced, or single. Many are also seniors with low incomes. The money is expected to make a real difference for those struggling to pay housing costs, keep food on the table and cover other expenses. Nearly one-third of all non-married seniors receiving Social Security have no other source of income. “The Recovery Act is helping to bolster the sagging economy by creating new jobs, investing in our City’s infrastructure and spurring spending. These critical Economic Recovery Payments help older New Yorkers, disabled veterans and other vulnerable populations,” Velázquez said. In addition to the payments being made to Social Security and SSI recipients, the Recovery Act also provides payments to disabled veterans and Railroad Retirement recipients. The payments to Railroad Retirement recipients are scheduled to begin to go out in late May and the payments to disabled veterans in June. In total, more than 50 million Americans will get this one-time payment. If someone regularly receives benefits from two or more of these programs – such as Social Security and Railroad Retirement, or a disabled veterans’ benefit and SSI – he or she will receive just one $250 payment. ###
05.01.2009	“Justice Souter is a dedicated public servant who brought independent thinking to the court. His sensible approach to legal issues should serve as a model for future nominees and justices. With his retirement President Obama has an historic opportunity to shatter the glass ceiling and appoint the first Hispanic to the Supreme Court. There are a number of qualified candidates, including Judge Sonia Sotomayor, to choose from. I look forward to working with the President to appoint a justice that is both committed to constitutional principles and reflective of our nation’s diversity.” ###
05.01.2009	NEW YORK - Last night, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) joined students, parents and administrators at the Grand Street Campus in Brooklyn to present the school with $100,000 in federal support for their arts education programs. Speaking at the school’s Spring Arts Celebration, she praised the participants for building valuable job skills through their dedication to the arts. Students from the Campus’ three high schools demonstrated their musical talents and handled all event production, from the marketing and sales to the lighting and sound set-up. “The Grand Street Campus Arts Department not only gives students a chance to create, perform and develop life-long skills, but provides a deterrent against crime and keeps young people in the classroom,” said Rep. Velázquez. The resources secured by the Congresswoman will be used by the Grand Street Campus Arts Department to enhance its existing facilities and provide greater opportunities for students. All courses offered by the department center around major arts productions that allow teens to gain experience and develop their talents by working on-stage and behind-the-scenes. The federal funds, allocated by a Department of Justice program to create positive alternatives to juvenile crime, will allow the arts program to make renovations to its auditorium and improve practice and performance equipment for dance, theater and music productions. The resources will also expand opportunities for students to perform off-campus, encouraging them to share their talents with the community. “Arts programs nationwide have proven to be an effective tool in keeping youths focused and positive, and I am proud to support Grand Street Campus’s efforts to create a constructive environment for teens,” Velázquez said. The Grand Street Campus opened in 1995, and features a curriculum emphasizing 21st century professional skills. The campus serves over 2,500 students at its three schools: The High School for Enterprise, Business, and Technology (EBT); PROGRESS High School for Professional Careers; and the School for Legal Studies. Partnering with community businesses and organizations, the schools offer classroom and real-world opportunities to prepare teens for post-secondary professional careers. This approach has translated well to the student body, with Grand Street Campus’s attendance and graduation rates both exceeding the citywide average. ###
04.29.2009	NEW YORK –The U.S. House Committee on Financial Services today approved the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (H.R. 1728), legislation aimed at curbing predatory lending practices. The bill prevents financial institutions from unfairly providing loans to borrowers that do not have a ‘reasonable ability to repay.’ Included in this bill is an amendment from Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) that strengthens legal counseling services by providing prospective homebuyers with increased access and information on the benefits of home inspections. “The American dream of homeownership is more than simply buying a home, it’s buying the right home with payments that are affordable,” Velázquez said. “Many New York communities, particularly our minority communities, have been targeted by predatory lending. These dishonest practices led us into the housing crisis, and by fighting back we can make sure it never happens again.” The Congresswoman’s initiative, based on her Consumer Protection Home Inspection Counseling Act (H.R. 2130), requires counselors at the Department of Housing and Urban Development to be trained on voluntary home inspections. This will help ensure consumers receive information about the benefits of a home inspection while they still have time to take advantage of the service. The bill also includes a public outreach campaign targeting vulnerable populations, such as low-income and first-time home buyers. “Improved counseling services will empower New Yorkers to make informed decisions about what is best for them and avoid predatory lending practices. Knowledge is one of the most powerful tools we have to fight the home foreclosure crisis,” Velázquez said. Given the current economic climate, with home foreclosures impacting over two million homes between 2008 and 2009, strengthened counseling services are needed now. Homeowners struggling to make payments often lack the resources necessary to repair and maintain their homes, which can have a negative impact on the value of a home and the owner’s ability to sell. Potential buyers need to be fully informed of the property’s condition. “A professional inspection provides a leg up when dealing with lenders and can save thousands of dollars in repairs down the road. With their home often the largest investment a New Yorker makes, it’s important to have the tools necessary when sitting down at the negotiating table.” Velázquez said. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act now goes to the full House of Representatives for approval, after which it would be sent to the Senate for consideration. Velázquez is the most senior New York Member on the Financial Service Committee’s Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. ###
04.16.2009	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today traveled with President Barack Obama to Mexico City for meetings with the nation’s leaders, and will continue on with the President as he heads to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago. This is the President’s first trip to Mexico and the Caribbean since he took the Oath of Office, and the Congresswoman will join in discussions on the economy, immigration and security issues, and the environment with many of the United State’s closest neighbors. “President Obama has expressed a willingness to take on issues that will help build a better future for working families and entrepreneurs here in New York -- from immigration reform and border security to trade relations and economic growth,” Velázquez said. “I look forward to taking part in these exchanges and representing the views of New York City’s diverse communities.” Congresswoman Velázquez is part of a select group of Congressional members invited to accompany the President on this trip. As Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the U.S. House Small Business Committee, the Congresswoman brings a unique perspective to the group. With more than 2.3 million Latinos living and working in New York City, the Congresswoman has worked to ensure immigrants have access to health care, affordable housing, job opportunities and assistance dealing with language and cultural barriers. “Our relations with Latin America could not be more important than they are in today’s economic and political climate,” Velázquez said. “By strengthening bonds with Latin America, we can open new avenues for New York businesses and help keep families strong despite the borders that may separate them.” The 2009 Summit of the Americas will be held in Trinidad and Tobago, April 17-19, under the theme of “Securing our Citizens Future by Promoting Human Prosperity, Energy Security and Environmental Sustainability.” The summit brings together the 34 democratically-elected leaders of the Western hemisphere and provides a forum to discuss solutions to common political, economic, and social problems in a multilateral and comprehensive way. The top issue of this year’s summit will be the current economic crisis, which also encompasses issues of access to increased credit and lending from multilateral banks, sub-regional banks and international development banks. Other issues will include promoting human prosperity, energy security and environmental sustainability. ###
04.08.2009	NEW YORK – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today nominated the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn as a federal Superfund site, an important step that could bring vital new funding to the clean-up of this long polluted waterway. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) said that Superfund designation could help to revitalize and improve the canal for residents of Brooklyn. “The Gowanus Canal can lead the way for a green future in Brooklyn. By eliminating decades-old contamination, we can reinvent the canal to bring new economic development and provide a healthy environment for families who call South Brooklyn home,” Velázquez said. Over the past decade, Congresswoman Velázquez has worked to clean-up the canal and bring sustainable development to the area. She has secured more than $2 million in federal funding for the Gowanus Canal and Bay Ecosystem Restoration Feasibility Study to identify the best approach for restoring the canal. The study is being conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers and the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (NYC DEP) to assess current environmental problems. Data collected during this study is being used by the EPA to fully understand and evaluate the extent of contamination. “The Superfund nomination is an important step toward reclaiming the canal for valuable community development, and restoring contaminated waters to health,” said Velázquez. “Still, as the EPA moves forward, we must be careful that the interests of local residents and the community are considered and protected every step of the way.” The Superfund program is the federal government’s principal program to clean up the nation’s hazardous waste sites that endanger public health and the environment. Now that the Gowanus canal has been nominated for Superfund status, it is listed in the Federal Register and a 60-day public comment period is initiated. Following that, a final decision will be made as to whether the site is eligible to be placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). The NPL is used by EPA to steer resources to sites for clean-up assistance. “The collaboration and hard work of community groups has gotten us this far, and, by continuing to work together, we can clean up the Gowanus canal for Brooklyn’s residents. I will be working with the EPA, as well as state and local agencies, to help ensure the canal is restored in a way that protects the neighborhood,” Velázquez said. ###
04.07.2009	New York, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today extended her heartfelt condolences to the families impacted by the earthquake that struck the city of L'Aquila, Italy in the early hours of Monday, April 6. The death toll resulting from this magnitude 6.3 quake has risen to over 200, with another 1,500 injured. The following is a statement from Congresswoman Velázquez: “I feel a great sadness for the people who have been affected by the recent tragedy in Italy. The worst earthquake to hit central Italy in decades has caused great loss of life and unimaginable destruction. My thoughts and prayers are with those who have family and friends in the Abruzzo region.” ###
04.01.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) has called on the U.S. Department of Justice to restore trust and confidence in the federal legal system through the appointment of new U.S. Attorneys. In a letter sent to Attorney General Eric Holder, the Congresswoman was joined by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) in urging an expedited timeline for the recommendation and appointment of a replacement for the District of Puerto Rico. “The Department of Justice and the President have an opportunity to restore confidence in the independence and integrity of the U.S. Attorneys offices throughout the United States. Puerto Rico should not be forgotten in this process and deserves nothing less than an expedited process to appoint a new U.S. Attorney,” Velázquez said. The following is the text of the letter: March 27, 2009 Dear Attorney General Holder: We are writing to you regarding the interim status of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico and to request that, as you consider appointing new U.S. Attorneys for all federal districts, you please pay particular consideration to the new appointment for Puerto Rico. In the coming weeks, your office will be making recommendations to President Obama regarding appointments to all U.S. Attorneys offices. We understand that in addition to making this difficult task, you must also weigh in the need to restore prestige and integrity to a department that has endured the often unscrupulous decisions of the previous administration. The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Puerto Rico was not immune to the past administration's damaged prestige. For this reason, we respectfully suggest that the best new candidate for the job should be able to restore the confidence and trust in the position by committing to the rule of law and demonstrating restraint, exercising his or her authority without passion or prejudice. We remain concerned that the Puerto Rico media and a large section of the population in Puerto Rico see the U.S. Attorneys Office taking actions that are politically driven, ill-informed and unfair. We also believe that this negative opinion has diminished the public’s confidence in the legal system. Therefore, we request that your office recommend to the President an expedited process to appoint new U.S. Attorneys, with particular attention to the District of Puerto Rico. The appointment of new U.S. attorneys will go a long way in restoring the image and credibility of the Department of Justice. We look forward to hearing from you regarding this important matter. ###
03.19.2009	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) has called on the U.S. Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban Development to protect renters who, by no fault of their own, are at risk of being evicted. Residents in rental properties make up 40 percent of all families affected by the foreclosure crisis however, many of the federal programs to provide relief are designed solely to help homeowners. In a letter sent yesterday to the Administration, the Congresswoman joined by Sen. Charles E. Schumer and Rep. Charles B. Rangel identified key actions to lessen mortgage risks and keep renters from being forced out of their homes. “These are tenants that comply with their lease requirements and make their payments on time but because the landlord goes into foreclosure; they end up on the streets. As we move forward in addressing the housing crisis, the rights of New York City renters must be protected,” said Velázquez, New York’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. The following is the text of the letter: March 18, 2009 We are writing to request your urgent attention to an issue affecting low and moderate income renters in New York City and in several other urban rental housing markets across the country. A large portion of our affordable multi-family rental housing stock has become significantly over-leveraged as a result of real-estate speculation and irresponsible lending practices. The loans on these properties are dangerous and unsustainable and affect hundreds of thousands of tenants in New York City alone. These tenants bear no blame for the irresponsible and reckless decisions made by landlords and lenders to load up on debt and put these properties at risk. In order to protect these tenants, and the future of the affordable housing stock in New York City and around the country, it is critical that this administration work with Congress to develop a mechanism to address this looming crisis. We believe that this dangerous trend has also occurred in other “high market” cites where speculation in the multi-family residential housing market flourished during the recent real-estate boom. (See New York Times article by Terry Pristin enclosed.) In New York City, this crisis has become overwhelming; advocates who have tracked this trend now estimate that as many as 70,000 units of rental housing are at risk of disinvestment and foreclosure due to over-leveraging. The majority of these rental units are occupied by low and middle income families who are extremely vulnerable and who do not possess the resources to find adequate housing if this crisis leads to massive displacement and loss of services. We are strongly urging the administration to create a Multi-Family Preservation Program that will assist with de-leveraging this crucial housing stock and bring relief to hundreds of thousands of low and moderate income renters across the country. As in the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, we believe that participation in the multi-family program should be a necessary condition for lenders and servicers who receive TARP funds or other federal resources. In general terms, the program should consist of the following elements: Over-leveraged loans must be deleveraged to a “fair market value.” “Fair market value” indicates that such mortgages be valued utilizing assumptions that insure that the current rental income will be adequate for the proper operation and maintenance of the property, along with reasonable reserve payments and debt service. On properties where debt does not meet the “fair market value” test, lenders will be required to perform a physical inspection of the asset in consultation with HUD (or a HUD designated unit of local government). A failed physical inspection will trigger a “regulatory default” and the property should be placed into foreclosure. If borrowers are in financial default, lenders should be compelled to seek swift foreclosure actions. In the event that a loan modification is negotiated which results in debt forgiveness for an existing borrower or a preservation purchaser, they should be required to enter into a long term use-agreement with HUD, or a HUD designated unit of local government, that ensures the long term financial, health, physical integrity, and affordability of the mortgaged property. To ensure that the final disposition results in the stable and financially viable long-term ownership for these projects, the administration should also enact a uniform and enforceable set of underwriting standards that are driven by the same factors as the “fair market value” definition. We understand that the administration is hard at work dealing with a number of complicated and extremely critical issues, including the implementation of the single family foreclosure prevention program. Though we appreciate the urgency of these many complex issues, we feel strongly that the crisis facing renters as a result of over-leveraging deserves immediate attention. ###
03.12.2009	Washington, DC – President Barack Obama has signed the 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill into law, providing vital resources for projects in New York’s 12th Congressional District. The funding bill includes $3.5 million in new resources that will strengthen successful local programs and create new jobs in the community, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today announced. “The funding bill signed into law directs aid to projects that make a real impact in New York City. Our neighbors should be able to get fresh food, quality healthcare and a good education close to where they live, and these resources help to make that possible,” Velázquez said. As working families struggle to make ends meet in the economic downturn, Congresswoman Velázquez secured resources that allow community groups to lend a helping hand through health aid, education resources and job training. The Congresswoman also advocated for funding to improve the quality of life for New Yorkers by increasing access to parks and a safe, healthy environment for all. “Whether it’s an after-school program or entrepreneurial training and financial planning, this legislation builds upon the economic recovery package to put New Yorkers back to work and help strengthen families,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Below is a list of the projects that Congresswoman Velázquez secured funding for in the 2009 Omnibus bill: City Parks Foundation: $150,000 to support free cultural, educational and recreational programs for youth at parks and recreational centers throughout the 12th Congressional District. Commission on the Future of the Latino Community in NYC: $122,821 for the establishment of a small business and economic development commission. Communilife, Inc.: $167,000 for “Life is Precious” demonstration projects to address the alarming rates of depression and suicide in Brooklyn communities. Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation: $122,821 for the Cypress Hills Economic Revitalization Initiative (CHERI) to stimulate the neighborhood’s economy, address the subprime lending crisis and educate residents about protecting their assets over the long-term. Dance Theatre Etcetera: $71,000 to expand the “Tolerance Through Arts” initiatives at local schools, after-school programs and community centers. Discipleship Outreach Ministries: $95,000 to provide mobile and on-site mental health services. Gouverneur Healthcare Services: $380,000 for redevelopment and design work to improve the nursing facility with homelike kitchens, bathing, dining and recreational areas. Graham Avenue Business Improvement District: $94,000 to support a farmers market on Cook Street. Grand Street Campus Arts Department: $100,000 for their program that engage at-risk students in the world of art, both as participants and audience members. Highland Park Community Development Corporation: $200,000 for the Values Education Through Cooperative Activities (VETCA) Program, which fosters real life cooperation and instills positive societal values. Hudson Raritan Estuary - Gowanus Canal Environmental Restoration Project: $239,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue its feasibility study for the environmental restoration of the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. Lower East Side Girls Club: $250,000 for the expansion of after-school programs, including leadership development, entrepreneurial training, financial planning, academic support and civic engagement programs. Lutheran Family Health Center Network: $438,000 to support the Women’s Health Services Initiative providing access to breast cancer screening and prenatal sonograms for medically underserved, low-income communities. Red Hook Community Justice Center: $350,000 to support the youth crime prevention program, which provides at-risk youth with much-needed social services. Safe Routes for Seniors and Kids: $712,500 for New York City to build upon its existing Safe Routes to School program and reduce the number of accidents involving pedestrians. ###
03.06.2009	Velázquez says thousands of New York homes will be saved Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives approved the “Helping Families Save Their Homes Act” last night to provide immediate assistance to families at risk of losing their homes. With a new report indicating 209,500 homeowners in New York are behind on mortgage payments or in foreclosure, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauded the bill for taking a much-needed step toward stabilizing the housing market. “We have to keep hard-working families in their homes and stop the steep decline in home prices. Our housing market is central to restoring the American economy, and we all stand to lose if we don’t act now,” said Velázquez. A senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Velázquez has been one of the most outspoken advocates for allowing bankruptcy judges to modify home loans. The bill approved yesterday makes that happen. Because bankruptcy is such a difficult process, it is not expected that the number of filings will increase greatly. Instead, banks will be more willing to work with homeowners before the issue reaches court. This common-sense, practical approach does not cost taxpayers a dime and is expected to reduce foreclosures by 20 percent. “Right now, it’s easier for loan servicers to foreclose on a property than to work with the homeowners. With this law, we put an end to the unfair disadvantage that struggling families face today and help keep them in their homes,” Velázquez said. In addition to the bankruptcy provisions, the “Helping Families Save Their Homes Act” reduces fees under the Hope for Homeowners program and offers new incentives for lenders to help homeowners overwhelmed by their mortgage payments. With the number of New York City foreclosures in January soaring 64 percent over the previous month, these policies are needed to help stem the rising tide of foreclosures. “When houses are foreclosed upon, not only do homeowners suffer, but property values in the area decline, neighborhood businesses are hurt and jobs are lost. This legislation will help keep our neighborhoods from sinking under the weight of foreclosed properties,” Velázquez said. ###
03.05.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to introduce legislation yesterday that would expand access to quality health care for New York City’s medically-underserved neighborhoods. The “Access for All America Act of 2009” would substantially increase support for the Community Health Centers program, ensuring that millions more will have a chance for a brighter, healthier future. “With escalating costs making health care harder to afford, community health centers are a valuable resource for many hard-working families in need of primary medical care, dental coverage, and mental health counseling,” said Velázquez. “These centers open their doors to everyone, ensuring no person seeking basic medical treatment is ever turned away.” The new legislation would quadruple the Community Health Center funding authorization to more than $8 billion, providing 60 million Americans living in medically-underserved areas with access to affordable medical care and low cost prescription drugs. New Yorkers would greatly benefit from this expansion. With more than 1.1 million in the state already using the state’s 50 community health centers, the additional funding would increase the services offered and the number of patients reached. These centers play a central role in local economies, providing approximately 12,000 jobs for physicians, nurses, technicians, and other medical professionals in the State. “Investing in community health centers not only ensures a healthier population, but also creates the jobs that are vital to an economic recovery. This bill provides a long term investment towards stabilizing and growing our City’s economy,” said Velázquez. With the rising expense of medical treatment, community health centers save New Yorkers substantial funds by reducing unnecessary medical expenses and cutting down the need for emergency room visits and hospitalizations. New York City saves $770 million in direct health costs every year because of community health centers, and it is estimated that the savings could exceed $1.6 billion by 2015. By promoting normal childhood development and creating a healthy workforce – medical costs will stay down for years to come. “Every year, countless employees are forced to miss work because of illness or to look after loved ones who are sick. This hurts both workers and businesses through lost wages and diminished production. By providing the City’s workforce with the care they need, community health centers allow New Yorkers to stay on the job and remain productive,” said Velázquez. President Obama has placed a priority on strengthening community health centers. Earlier this week, the Administration announced that five New York City community health centers will receive $5.9 million in funding from the Economic Recovery Plan. The resources are being dispersed by the Department of Health and Human Services, and are part of $155 million allocated for similar programs across the country. ###
03.04.2009	Washington, DC –On Tuesday evening, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) addressed more than 800 Hispanic leaders from across the United States who gathered for the National Council of La Raza (NCLR) Capital Awards Gala at the National Buildings Museum. The Congresswoman, who is the Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), spoke about the historic power and influence of the Latino community. She called on the politicians, business leaders and community activists in attendance to join forces in advancing issues important to all Hispanics. “The Hispanic community has a tradition of hard work, whether it’s starting a new business or preparing our children for a promising future. Together, we can tap into this determination and build a stronger America for all Latinos,” Velázquez said. To demonstrate the growing strength of the Latino community, the Congresswoman pointed to the nearly 10 million Hispanics voted in the 2008 Presidential election, up from 7.6 million in 2004. She also noted the community’s $860 billion purchasing power and the success of nearly 2 million Latino owned companies across the country. As the leader of the CHC, Congresswoman Velázquez will work to expand access to quality healthcare, increase job training resources, open the door for those who want to pursue a higher education, and reform immigration policies to keep families together. “Clearly, our community is more influential than ever before. We need a seat at the table when policies are considered that address the issues our family, friends and neighbors deal with every single day. From energy independence to healthcare reform, all issues are Latino issues,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Founded in 1968, the National Council of La Raza is the largest national Hispanic civil rights and advocacy organization in the United States. Through its network of nearly 300 affiliated community-based organizations, NCLR reaches millions of Hispanics each year in 41 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. To achieve its mission, NCLR conducts applied research, policy analysis, and advocacy, providing a Latino perspective in five key areas – assets/investments, civil rights/immigration, education, employment and economic status, and health. In addition, it provides capacity-building assistance to its Affiliates who work at the state and local level to advance opportunities for individuals and families. “NCLR is excited and encouraged by Congresswoman Velazquez’s new role as the chair of the CHC. This position comes after years of hard work and accomplishment in Congress. This includes being the first Puerto Rican woman elected to Congress and the first woman Ranking Democratic Member of the House Small Business Committee. We look forward to working with her in her new role,” said Janet Murguia, President and CEO of NCLR. ###
02.25.2009	Washington, DC –The 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill approved today in the U.S. House of Representatives includes $3.5 million to benefit community projects in New York’s 12th Congressional District, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) announced. The resources will improve access to affordable healthcare, promote educational opportunities, help workers and small businesses in the tough economy, and give families the tools to stay in their homes and manage their finances. “Today, we have taken the final steps needed to keep the federal government running and make investments in our communities,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “These resources will help New York City’s hard working families improve their lives and create a positive future for their children.” Below is a list of the projects that Congresswoman Velázquez secured funding for in the 2009 Omnibus bill: City Parks Foundation: $150,000 to support free cultural, educational and recreational programs for youth at parks and recreational centers throughout the 12th Congressional District. Commission on the Future of the Latino Community in NYC: $122,821 for the establishment of a small business and economic development commission. Communilife, Inc.: $167,000 for “Life is Precious” demonstration projects to address the alarming rates of depression and suicide in Brooklyn communities. Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation: $122,821 for the Cypress Hills Economic Revitalization Initiative (CHERI) to stimulate the neighborhood’s economy, address the subprime lending crisis and educate residents about protecting their assets over the long-term. Dance Theatre Etcetera: $71,000 to expand the “Tolerance Through Arts” initiatives at local schools, after-school programs and community centers. Discipleship Outreach Ministries: $95,000 to provide mobile and on-site mental health services. Gouverneur Healthcare Services: $380,000 for redevelopment and design work to improve the nursing facility with homelike kitchens, bathing, dining and recreational areas. Graham Avenue Business Improvement District: $94,000 to support a farmers market on Cook Street. Grand Street Campus Arts Department: $100,000 for their program that engage at-risk students in the world of art, both as participants and audience members. Highland Park Community Development Corporation: $200,000 for the Values Education Through Cooperative Activities (VETCA) Program, which fosters real life cooperation and instills positive societal values. Hudson Raritan Estuary - Gowanus Canal Environmental Restoration Project: $239,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue its feasibility study for the environmental restoration of the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. Lower East Side Girls Club: $250,000 for the expansion of after-school programs, including leadership development, entrepreneurial training, financial planning, academic support and civic engagement programs. Lutheran Family Health Center Network: $438,000 to support the Women’s Health Services Initiative providing access to breast cancer screening and prenatal sonograms for medically underserved, low-income communities. Red Hook Community Justice Center: $350,000 to support the youth crime prevention program, which provides at-risk youth with much-needed social services. Safe Routes for Seniors and Kids: $712,500 for New York City to build upon its existing Safe Routes to School program and reduce the number of accidents involving pedestrians. ###
02.25.2009	Washington, DC – On Tuesday evening, President Barack Obama addressed a Joint Session of Congress to present his plan to tackle the nation’s economic crisis and prepare for future growth with key investments in health care, education and energy. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) voiced support for the President’s comprehensive approach to getting the nation back on track. “In his first address to Congress, President Obama laid out the stark challenges before us and his plan to see us through. I am dedicated to working with the President to create a better future for New York City,” said Velázquez, who is Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. Outlining his plan for long-term growth, President Obama called for reforms to the nation’s health care system. He stressed the importance of creating comprehensive health care reform, an issue of vital importance to New York. Recent estimates put the number of uninsured in New York at 2.4 million, and 48 million Americans without insurance across the country. “Far too many New Yorkers lack health insurance coverage, with the largest stress placed on our minority and low-income communities. Our nation is on path to becoming a far better place for all Americans with a President who does more than talk and actually makes these long-awaited changes a reality,” Velázquez said. President Obama underscored the need to provide a quality education for children at every stage of their lives, and urged students to finish high school and at least one year of post-secondary education. This will be an important commitment in New York City, where only 23.5 percent of students learning English graduated from high school in 2007 – compared with an overall graduation rate of nearly 53 percent. “The future of our nation is held in the hands of our youth, and we must do all we can to prepare them for the competitive, international job market they will enter. From what we heard last night, the President’s plan will do just that,” Velázquez said. Finally, the President stressed the importance of creating a green economy that will support the nation in the 21st Century. Recent projections point to the potential of employing 335,000 workers in green industry in New York state alone. Investing in green technologies will create new jobs, grow the national economy and move the United States toward energy independence. ###
02.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) released the following statement today in response to the Administration’s “Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan”: “President Obama’s plan to address the foreclosure crisis includes important measures that will help keep borrowers in their homes and provide much needed stability to housing prices across the country. “When homes are foreclosed upon, not only do hard-working families suffer, but property values in the area decline, neighborhood businesses are hurt, and jobs are lost. If we are to address the broader economic crisis facing the nation, we will need to tackle the housing crisis, which sparked the current economic downturn. “Taking on the housing crisis requires a multifaceted approach and I am pleased to see that one of the President’s proposals will allow judges to modify mortgages for homeowners facing bankruptcy. If done correctly, such a policy can help stem the rising tide of foreclosures and mitigate the resulting drop in property values. “I look forward to more carefully reviewing the details of this proposal and working toward implementation of a broad-based plan that will address the foreclosure crisis.” Velázquez serves as the Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee and is the senior New York Representative on the House Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. ###
02.13.2009	“We need this economic recovery package to stop the cycle of job loss that has crippled New York City and the entire nation. Only if we get people back to work and help them afford their basic needs, will spending start up again and our economy begin to recover,” said Velázquez. Infrastructure projects and other targeted spending will get New Yorkers back to work and jumpstart the economy. The State is expected to receive $2.7 billion to fund public schools, $1 billion for highway construction projects, $1.3 billion for mass transit, and $403 million to help seniors and families reduce energy bills by weatherizing their homes. In New York City, the public housing authority can expect $390 million to modernize and improve the safety of its buildings. In addition, 95 percent of workers and their families – totaling nearly 7.1 million people in New York State – will be eligible for a tax cut of up to $800. The extra money will show up immediately in workers’ paychecks. “This bill provides a major investment in New York City – from renovating public housing buildings to making sure our schools are equipped with 21st century technology,” said Velázquez. “We are focused on creating a bright future for our children, and putting New Yorkers to work now making the improvements.” With New York City’s unemployment rate above 7 percent, the recovery package also takes steps to help out-of-work New Yorkers make ends meet as they search for a new job. The legislation expands unemployment benefits, and helps the recently unemployed maintain health care coverage that was offered by their last employer. To feed the hungry, the bill increases food stamp benefits by more than 13 percent. “Our workers and small business owners are the ones who can lift us out of this downturn. By supporting their hard work and innovative ideas, we will get things moving again and see our communities thrive,” said Velázquez. As Chairwoman of the House Committee on Small Business, the Congresswoman worked to ensure the bill gives small firms access to affordable credit and new capital. The Small Business Administration will provide guarantees on new loans and refinance past loans to make payments more affordable for business owners. In addition, tax credits will help ease the burden on entrepreneurs and allow them to meet payroll, stock their shelves and expand their businesses. ###
02.11.2009	“Safeguarding the health of families near the Meeker Avenue plume, and in the larger Newtown Creek area, must be a top priority. I will continue to fight for the resources needed to clean-up these hazardous conditions,” CongresswomanVelázquez said. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) and Department of Health (DOH) are conducting indoor air tests to ensure that dangerous chemicals in the soil have not seeped inside homes. The contamination in the soil is the result of past activity by dry-cleaners and industrial companies. If a certain amount of chlorinated vapors are found in a residence, the DEC will install a ventilation system at no cost to the family. To encourage participation by impacted households, Congresswoman Velázquez and other local elected officials are sending a letter explaining the importance of home testing and the process residents should expect when dealing with the state agencies. “State health and environmental agencies are doing important work to make sure we all breathe safe, clean air in our homes. All contacted residents should participate in the study to ensure the safety of their homes and to protect their families’ health,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. The U.S. EPA expressed confidence that New York is working to fully assess the impact of the plumes, and the federal agency offered its assistance if the state were to need it. The letter also indicated that the EPA will continue its investigation into whether the larger Newtown Creek area warrants Superfund designation. A copy of the EPA letter to Congresswoman Velázquez can be found here. ###
02.04.2009	“Every person deserves the right to high-quality, affordable health care, and this bill will help thousands of New York’s children receive just that,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “Healthy children are more likely to do well in school and have fewer medical problems as they get older, giving them a greater chance to succeed and more opportunities for a better future.” The bill authorizes the continuation of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for an additional 10 years. Begun in 1997, SCHIP covers more than 7 million children nationwide from working families with incomes that are too high to qualify for Medicaid but too low to make private insurance affordable. Over 650,000 New York children are currently enrolled in the program, and the passage of this legislation will give an additional 267,000 an opportunity to join. The reauthorization includes a new state option to cover pregnant women and eliminates the current five-year waiting period before legal immigrants are eligible for coverage. “With medical costs rising at an alarming rate and health plans becoming unaffordable for many hard-working families, it is vital that we protect our most vulnerable populations,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “The reauthorization of SCHIP means that parents will not have to sacrifice medical care for their children in exchange for affording their families’ daily essentials.” The expansion of SCHIP will be fully-funded by a 61-cent increase in the cigarette tax to $1 per pack, which will also have the benefit of discouraging children from smoking. The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids estimates a 61-cent increase in the tobacco tax will stop 1,873,000 children from taking up smoking. “This legislation will ease the burden on New York’s already strained budget,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “By funding the program with an increase in the cigarette tax, we can protect children from the dangers of smoking and save taxpayers from covering expensive medical costs down the line.” ###
01.19.2009	“Throughout the years, José was a community activist and a fighter for minorities and poor people. He could talk to people from all backgrounds, and was always well-liked and respected in the community. José represents the pride of Puerto Rico. “José rose to the top of the boxing world, always displaying his love for Puerto Rico by wearing the island colors in the ring. When his fighting days ended, his pride in Puerto Rico did not. He chaired the New York State Boxing Commission, served as supervisor for the World Boxing Organization, and wrote with great passion about the sport he loved so much. José was dedicated to his sport, but his love for Puerto Rico was unmatched. “José has been by my side throughout much of my career, supporting and encouraging me as I worked to become a Congresswoman. With everyone he knew, José was able to see their potential and push them to achieve their goals. His great passion for life and his dedication to Puerto Rico serve as an example for us and for future generations.” ###
01.15.2009	"Recently, New York has suffered with the news of two deadly hate crimes. These violent acts remind us that the fight against hate and discrimination continues in our communities," said Rep. Steve Israel. "All too often, victims of hate crimes don't report the acts perpetrated against them. Without accurate reporting, law enforcement is limited in its response. A National Hate Crimes Hotline will give these victims a way to privately and promptly report bias-motivated crimes, just as the National Domestic Violence Hotline has assisted millions of callers trapped in difficult situations." ”We must do everything possible to combat the cruel power of hate crimes,” Rep. Serrano said. “A national hotline will be another option for those living in fear to report these terrible acts. With the recent spate of hate crimes in our community, the time is now for increased action at all levels of government. At the very least, we must have the best possible information about the prevalence of these hurtful acts. The bottom line is that this hotline will help our communities to be safer places.” “In recent months, we have seen appalling and horrendous acts of hate in New York. A National Hate Crimes Hotline will help to prevent future crimes by ensuring more accurate reporting of these terrible incidents and improving local responsiveness. We must not tolerate these crimes and a national hotline would be an important step toward cracking down on these terrible acts,” said Rep. Velázquez, the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The hotline will be modeled after the National Domestic Violence Hotline, with a goal of increasing both the reporting of and local responsiveness to hate crimes. The National Domestic Violence Hotline has fielded more than 2 million calls since its launch in 1996. New York recently endured two high-profile hate crimes in Patchogue and Brooklyn. In both cases, someone lost their life in a bias-motivated crime. In New York State, 273 agencies work on behalf of the over 15 million New Yorkers to report hate crime statistics. However, only 29 of the 273 New York agencies reported a total 493 hate crimes statewide in 2007. Based on recent reports, many victims are simply not reporting these crimes out of fear of what will happen to them. The FBI is required to track hate crime statistics, but does not require state agencies to report them, causing for major discrepancies in the number of crimes reported per state. In "Hate Crimes Reported by Victims and Police," an article based on the National Criminal Victimization Survey and Uniform Crime Reporting, the nation had an annual average of 210,000 hate crimes between July 2000 and December 2003. Only 92,000 of these crimes were reported to police. According to an FBI report from October 2008, there were 595 incidents of anti-Hispanic hate crimes in 2007, an increase of 3.3% from the 576 incidents reported in 2006. According to an annual Hate Crime Statistics Report released jointly by the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 2,025 law enforcement agencies reported 7,624 hate crime incidents involving 9,006 offenses in 2007 (the most recent year for which reporting is available). Additionally, an analysis of the 7,621 single-bias incidents reported in 2007 revealed the following: 50.8 percent were racially motivated 18.4 percent were motivated by religious bias 16.6 percent resulted from sexual-orientation bias 13.2 percent stemmed from ethnicity/national origin bias ###
01.09.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, issued the following statement today following the confirmation hearing for Rep. Hilda L. Solis (D-Calif.) as Secretary of Labor: “Congresswoman Solis has dedicated her career to helping American workers by creating new jobs, securing a living wage and providing affordable health care options. As a sponsor of the Employee Free Choice Act, she has fought to protect the right of workers to join a union and bargain for better terms. “Our nation’s middle class has struggled long enough to make ends meet as paychecks shrink and health care costs skyrocket. I am confident that Rep. Solis will put the Labor Department back on the right track with policies that give workers a fair shake. She understands that our hard-working men and women deserve fair wages, safe workplaces, job training and the right to organize.” ###
12.11.2008	The following is the text of the Congresswoman’s letter sent today to EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson: “I write to draw your attention to new evidence concerning the Newtown Creek contamination in my district in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Several dangerously chlorinated plumes, including the Meeker Avenue plume, pose an imminent risk to the health of local residents. The EPA must act aggressively and conduct a full investigation. Congress recently directed the EPA to analyze the Newtown Creek contamination, and your agency issued a report indicating the need for additional analysis to be completed. The EPA then agreed to consider whether Newtown Creek warrants Superfund designation. And now the evidence appears to be overwhelming. The EPA must fulfill its duty to the public by taking charge of this investigation. If this site, which is one of the largest contaminations on record, does not merit Superfund status; then none does. Recent NYSDEC and NYC work to assess the plume helps, but state and local agencies lack the resources to fully analyze the impact on water and air conditions in the nearby area. To date, only a few of the hundreds of homes and businesses on the front lines have been investigated. The State is testing 450 additional homes and businesses, so New York is doing its part. Yet contaminated groundwater and dangerous vapors seeping into homes and businesses indicate that federal expertise could preserve health and save lives. There is a pressing need for EPA resources and manpower, and I call on the Agency to use its full statutory authority to protect the health of residents neighboring the Meeker Avenue plume and the larger Newtown Creek area. After years of living in the dark, residents and workers need to know what dangers they face. I would appreciate a response from you detailing the efforts the Agency intends to make to act on the new evidence.” ###
12.05.2008	This site, centrally located in these three communities, is one of the last large, open spaces in North Brooklyn. Reps. Velázquez and Towns have urged Housing and Preservation Development (HPD) to allow members of the Broadway Triangle Community Coalition to voice their concerns and participate in future discussions. The organization represents over 40 major housing, religious, tenant and neighborhood groups throughout Williamsburg, Bushwick and Bedford-Stuyvesant. Rep. Velázquez stated, “The rezoning of Williamsburg and Greenpoint has increased the pressure on low-income and moderate-income families in need of real affordable housing. While zoning laws and regulations set out to improve communities and the city, recent history has shown a reverse effect to the detriment of residents and small, local businesses. I believe that no single person or one group of people can have sufficient information to determine the best use for this area.” “I join the Broadway Triangle Community Coalition in their efforts to create an open and effective plan, which allows all the stakeholders to have input that will bring about affordable housing and economic development to the residents of Brooklyn.” said Rep. Towns. Representatives of the Coalition came together on Wednesday, December 3, at Woodhull Hospital to develop a plan for the area to present to the city. Rep. Velazquez concluded, “Today, more than ever when residents are spending more than 50 percent of their incomes on rent, there needs to be a comprehensive affordable housing and economic development plan. This is why I join the Broadway Triangle Coalition in their effort to create a charrette that is democratic, open and inclusive of all stakeholders.” ###
12.02.2008	Dr. Vélez had a vision to share the great pride and festivity that the Puerto Rican Day Parade offered Boricuas in New York, and to make it a national symbol for all to see. For 38 years, New York was the home and center of the Puerto Rican community in the States. But in 1995, Ramon, along with Ralph, María and Madelyn, moved the City parade to a national stage, projecting to the country the best of our Puerto Rican heritage. The founding principles of the Parade were, and continue to be, providing a platform to showcase our people’s contributions to this country and encouraging our fellow Boricuas to be proud of their heritage while fomenting them to succeed as members of this society. I was deeply honored to participate at this year’s parade, honoring the 13th National Puerto Rican Day. Ramon led the National parade for five years and his leadership will continue to serve as an example upon which new generations of leaders will build. Our City and our community join in prayers with the Vélez family. His work lives on through the multitude of parades that have sprung up across the country and in the continuing education of our youth in the values, contributions and pride of our birthplace and culture.
11.24.2008	New York City – Small businesses in New York City saw a nearly 40 percent drop in the number of Small Business Administration guaranteed loans they received in 2008 as compared to a year ago, according to data released today by Representative Anthony Weiner (D – Brooklyn and Queens), a member of the House Commerce Committee, and Representative Nydia Velázquez (D –Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens), chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee. The new data, compiled from the United States Small Business Administration (SBA), found: The total number of SBA loans provided to New York City small businesses dropped 39% – from 4,011 loans in 2007 to 2,427 loans in 2008 The total amount of SBA loans provided to small businesses in New York City dropped $64,316, 812, or 18%, in 2008 – from $358,598,000 in 2007 to $294,281,188 this year Queens businesses borrowed 45% less in 2008 – a $48,057,500 drop, the largest of any of the boroughs Businesses in the Bronx experienced a 50% drop in the number of loans they received in 2008 – the largest drop of any of the boroughs Staten Island actually saw a 4% increase in the amount of loans received – an increase of $416,000 Small businesses employ over half the nation ’s workforce and are estimated to generate 70% of all new jobs. But with the economy now mired in an historic financial crisis, many small firms are struggling to secure the capital they need to stay in business. Entrepreneurs have had lines of credit drastically reduced and, in some cases, revoked altogether. In the most recent Federal Reserve Senior Loan Officer survey, over 75% of lenders said they had tightened lending standards for small firms. Meanwhile, 90% reported having increased the cost of small business credit. Under these conditions, even entrepreneurs who have managed to weather the storm thus far are abandoning plans for growth – efforts that would otherwise create new jobs. The United States Small Business Administration (SBA) helps our nation’s small firms. SBA’s 7(a) loan program represents the single largest source of long-term, fixed-rate financing for these businesses. However, a combination of costly program fees and insufficient Administration support has significantly weakened 7(a). Today, the program is feeling the full effects of the credit freeze, effectively cutting off the last source of financing for small businesses. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (pdf) , Reps. Weiner and Velázquez are urging the Federal Reserve to establish a temporary lending facility. Doing so would restore vital liquidity to the financing markets and also allow SBA lenders to replenish their funds, jumpstarting the small business credit pipeline. Rep. Weiner said, “When the New York City economy catches a cold, small firms catch pneumonia. Access to loans is essential – and in many cases, literally makes the difference between a business that floats and a business that sinks. These funds need to flow so we can restore confidence in the economy and create jobs.” Rep. Velázquez, who is chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, said, “With lending to New York small businesses down 40 percent, clearly none of the 1.6 trillion dollars spent on the bailout has made it into the hands of small firms. The steps we have instructed the Federal Reserve and the Department of Treasury to take will increase capital, helping entrepreneurs create the jobs we need to get the economy back on track.” Mark Jaffe, President of the Greater New York Chamber of Commerce, said, “Small business owners and entrepreneurs, the backbone of New York City, need an equal footing when it comes to the lending industry. I thank Congressman Weiner and Congresswoman Velazquez for their efforts to help protect small businesses.” ###
11.19.2008	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) was elected by her peers in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) to lead the group for the 111th Congress. As Chair of the CHC, the Congresswoman is committed to working in a bipartisan manner to increase opportunities for the nation’s 47 million Hispanics. “It is an honor to have been selected by my colleagues as Chair the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “With their rapid growth, increasing purchasing power and political influence, this is both an exciting and critical time for Latinos.” Since being elected to Congress in 1992, Congresswoman Velázquez has been an active member of the Caucus, chairing the Economic Development Task Force as well as holding the position of Vice Chair. Her leadership and advocacy stretches outside the CHC to include serving as Chair of the House Small Business Committee. In this role she has worked towards building consensus and converting ideas into legislative action. Congresswoman Velázquez plans to bring that same leadership to the CHC and advocate for a national agenda that reflects the needs and potential of Hispanic Americans. “The current environment poses many challenges for Latinos, from the foreclosure crisis and immigration to accessing quality health care and education,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Strengthening resources for the Hispanic community is not just good for Hispanics; it’s good for the entire country. By supporting the growing number of innovative business owners in the Latino community, we will start to rebuild the economy and bolster the nation as a whole.” Since its founding in December 1976, the CHC has been dedicated to advancing issues affecting Hispanics in the United States and Puerto Rico through the legislative process. In addition to its substantial legislative role, the CHC also monitors Executive and Judicial issues. The Caucus is comprised of 21 members of Congress of Hispanic descent, and is governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
10.17.2008	New York – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) testified this morning at the New York City Council’s Public Hearing on Term Limits Legislation. She urged Council members to refrain from acting without first allowing the public to vote on the issue. The Congresswoman, who in 1984 became the first Hispanic woman to serve on the New York City Council, is also concerned that extending term limits may infringe upon protections for minority voters. Below is the text of Congresswoman Velázquez’s prepared remarks: “Madame Speaker and distinguished members of the Council, thank you for inviting me to speak about this important matter. As we all know, this city has gone through some major changes in the last few months. But that should not translate into carte blanche to alter the fundamental relationship between voters and elected officials. Even in times of crisis – especially in times of crisis – there are some concerns in which the peoples’ voice must be heard. The move to extend this city’s term limits is one of those concerns. On two different occasions, New Yorkers have been asked to vote on term limits – both times with resounding support. I think it is safe to say that the will of the people is clear. And yet we are now being asked to reevaluate it. If there is genuine reason to believe that voters’ minds have changed, then allow that new opinion to be reflected in a public referendum. If this Council moves to stretch term limits, it will do more than simply extend a few political careers – it will fundamentally alter New York City’s election system. Moreover, allowing the council to make this decision on its own represents a glaring conflict of interest. Our economy is now grappling with the fallout from moral hazards on Wall Street – let’s not allow those same kinds of conflicts of interest to upend our political system. The Voting Rights Act was created to protect the integrity of the process. Throwing out term limits and allowing incumbents to continue to seek and hold office would fly in the face of why term limits were established. This would be a major change, one that the Justice Department is legally obligated to review. In fact, it is required to evaluate all “changes in candidacy requirements and qualifications.” This means that any alterations the Council makes to New York election law must be ultimately cleared by the Federal government. The preclearance mandate was designed to protect the rights of minority voters. In addition to these consequences, there are concerns over the impact of term extensions on this Council. Our increasingly diverse minority population is already underrepresented in government. If term-limits are to be extended, there would be less turnover and, consequently, even fewer opportunities to reflect our changing demographics. That would be unfortunate, because our city works best when it draws from the diversity of our communities. As a former member of this Council, I know that the intention is not to shut out minority voters. There is no question that the last few months have been an exceptionally trying time for New York City. And yet even in our darkest hour, New Yorkers have not wavered on the subject of term limits. As many of you will recall, Mayor Giuliani moved to extend his tenure following 9/11. But in the face of unspeakable tragedy and uncertainty, the people still said ‘No.’ Once again, New Yorkers are seeking stability and reassurance. We need to remember that there is little comfort in blindly “staying the course” – after all, we saw where that got us in Iraq. It is important that we differentiate between stability and simply soldiering on. It is also important that – before the Council pushes to fundamentally alter New York’s democratic process – it give the City an opportunity to weigh in, and have its voice be heard. Thank you again for your time. I look forward to a frank discussion, and to working with you in sorting out this thorny issue.” ###
10.14.2008	“Preserving affordable housing and providing opportunities to Latino families is a fight about priorities. In Congress, I have worked to protect and bolster our scarce housing resources. Only through a collaborated effort can we raise urban housing needs to the top of the national agenda,” she said. As New York City’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, Congresswoman Velázquez has been a strong advocate of expanding opportunities for the City’s public housing residents and workers. She has introduced legislation to increase NYCHA’s funding, which slowed to a trickle under the Bush Administration. The Congresswoman also worked to develop a program to train public housing residents in the home healthcare trade and match them with seniors in need of help. Most recently, she ensured that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, signed into law last week, included a number of crucial provisions designed to prevent the loss of subsidized rental units and preserve tenant protections. “Congresswoman Velázquez has been a great friend to public housing and a leader in the Latino community. She has broken many barriers and inspires Latinos to reach for great heights. During Hispanic Heritage Month, we salute these contributions,” said Johnny Figueroa, President of the Hispanic Society of NYCHA. The Hispanic Society of NYCHA was founded in 1969. The membership is made up of Hispanic members of the Housing Authority workers, with 125 active members. The organization was founded for the purpose of providing social and educational benefits to the membership and fostering the spirit, language and culture of Hispanic heritage. Today, the organization continues promoting the general welfare of its members. One of the ways that the Society supports its membership is by holding an annual scholarship dinner dance for the benefit of the children and grandchildren of the membership. In addition to presenting an annual scholarship, the Society also contributes to charitable, fraternal and educational causes of other Housing Authority organizations. The Society is under the umbrella of the Grand Council of Hispanic Societies in Public Service. ###
10.10.2008	“Arbitron clearly doesn’t understand our community, and their faulty data now jeopardizes the diversity of our airwaves,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “It is putting at risk free speech for each and every member of New York City’s minority population.” African Americans and Hispanics have the highest radio listening levels of all demographic groups, and have kept minority stations in the top rankings. Yet the Portable People Meter’s flawed system for calculating the number of listeners showed large drops for minority stations. In New York City, three minority stations were previously ranked in the Top 5, yet none reached that high on the PPM list. These inaccurate ratings threaten to disenfranchise minority communities, will harm media diversity and have a devastating impact on small stations. “As the only company that compiles listener data, Arbitron has recklessly ignored their responsibility to provide trustworthy information,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “With the overwhelming growth and impact that minority communities have on our City, I am committed to making sure that Latino and Black radio stations stay on the air and their listeners are adequately represented.” Despite a lack of accreditation, Arbitron decided to move forward with releasing the PPM data. As a result, advertisers will be less likely to choose minority stations and funding could dry up. These broadcasters now stand to lose 30 to 40 percent of their annual revenues and many of these stations could be silenced. “This new ratings system is so flawed that it has not been approved by the Media Ratings Council,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Until Arbitron establishes an accurate way to measure radio station audiences, the data released earlier this week should be dismissed.” Last week, Congresswoman Velázquez was joined by six of her colleagues in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) in calling for an investigation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The group of legislators also wrote to Stephen B. Morris, President and CEO of Arbitron, urging the company to resolve errors in reporting before the new ratings were released. ###
10.03.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today urged the U.S. Department of Labor to work with New York officials to devise a plan for maintaining employment and retraining workers displaced during the financial crisis. With as many as 120,000 workers expected to lose their jobs as a direct result of the Wall Street decline, she called on the Department to approve New York’s request for $150 million in federal grants for programs to bolster employment. She also called for a full review of existing federal programs designed to stem the tide of unemployment, including the Worker Investment Act (WIA) and Trade Adjustment Act (TAA). Below is the text of a letter Congresswoman Velázquez, joined by eight of her colleagues in the House, sent to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao: October 3, 2008 Dear Madam Secretary: New York is looking to the U.S. Department of Labor for leadership during these troubled economic times. Stagnant job growth and wages has combined with the dramatic market downturn to produce a dangerous time for New Yorkers, and thus for the entire country. The federal government has to do more right now to invest in New York’s most valuable resource, the American worker. While globalization has created much opportunity for multinational corporations to penetrate new markets overseas and locate facilities offshore, these changes have also threatened the way of life of many New Yorkers. Whatever one might think of the trade policies that have gotten us here, we can all agree that worker skills must evolve to meet the demands of this increasingly international economy. New York State is particularly focused on this problem in light of the financial mess which directly impacts many of our communities. We may lose 120,000 jobs as a result of the financial crisis alone. And our economy was struggling before the market crash. In August, unemployment in New York City increased more than it had in any one month in 30 years. Here’s what the Department must do to help: Approve New York’s request for federal assistance to preserve existing jobs and retrain displaced workers. The State is requesting a $10 million emergency grant for retraining, and a $50 million grant to go towards preserving existing jobs. The alternative – more hemorrhaging of jobs in the nation’s largest metropolitan area – would have severe national implications for our economy. Only the U.S. Department of Labor has the capacity to proactively prevent this. In the wake of the worst single day in the history of the New York Stock Exchange, we are clearly in an emergency. The Department cannot remain on the sidelines. Review the potential in federal programs such as the Worker Investment Act (WIA) and Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), to stem New York job losses. WIA and TAA were designed by Congress to empower the Department to both prevent foreseeable job problems, and react to such problems after the fact. Use WIA and TAA aggressively to spur the New York economy towards recovery. Given the current financial and economic climate, New York runs the risk of suffering from a perfect storm of job contraction in the financial sector and the manufacturing sector in the coming months. The Department has the tools to help stem this storm. We urge you to act forcefully in this time of need and look forward to your response. Sincerely yours, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Maurice Hinchey Member of Congress Brian M. Higgins Member of Congress Carolyn McCarthy Member of Congress John Hall Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Michael Arcuri Member of Congress Jose E. Serrano Member of Congress Yvette Clarke Member of Congress ###
10.03.2008	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by a vote of 263-171, providing much needed relief to the U.S. economy. In particular, the legislation includes a number of crucial provisions designed to keep New Yorkers in their homes and assist small business owners. “We are in the midst of a credit crisis, and it is homeowners and entrepreneurs that are feeling the pain,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, Chair of the U.S. House Committee on Small Business and a senior member of the Financial Services Committee. “This legislation lays the framework for the long-term recovery of our housing and commercial lending markets.” The final bill provides meaningful benefits for New York City families, including a Velázquez initiative to provide for continued tenant protections, such as rental subsidies. In addition, she ensured that commercial loans attached to apartment buildings can be purchased by the government if they are at risk of default. This will help to preserve thousands of rent-regulated, HUD-insured and subsidized housing units in the City. “This is an important first step that will help keep New York families in their homes,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “It is essential that we protect the rights of tenants and ensure our nation’s affordable housing remains secure during this financial crisis.” In addition to addressing the needs of homeowners, entrepreneurs across the country will receive much needed assistance. By permitting lenders to move troubled assets off their balance sheets, more capital will be available for borrowers, including commercial and consumer loans used by entrepreneurs. This will enable small firms to meet payroll, finance their inventories and, as the economy recovers, expand their operations. “More businesses are facing higher rates and less favorable terms, which has a serious effect on our economy,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Access to credit is critical, and today we have taken steps to reopen the spigot so that capital can flow more freely to small firms.” Recent events reaffirm the need for this legislation. 159,000 U.S. jobs were lost in September, the worst month since 2003, and the economy is poised for a severe slowdown across a wide range of sectors. The legislation approved today is central to turning these trends around and jumpstarting new growth in the U.S. economy. “The U.S. economy is facing challenges on a number of fronts, including slow growth, job losses and declining asset prices,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Reducing the logjam in our credit markets is absolutely critical to our nation’s economic recovery.” ###
09.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez introduced legislation to strengthen the food stamp program for unemployed workers, providing needed assistance to hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers in need. The Food Security Act of 2008 would extend the eligibility for workers without dependants to receive food stamps from 3 months to 12 months per three-year period. “As our nation faces the highest unemployment in years along with soaring fuel prices and rising food costs, many New Yorkers are struggling to make ends meet,” said Senator Clinton. “For too many New York City residents, the challenge is not choosing between a gallon of milk and a gallon of gas, it’s finding enough food to survive. This critical legislation will ease the burden of putting food on the table while they work hard to get back on their feet.” “Strengthening the food stamps program will encourage growth in our communities by quickly driving millions of dollars into local businesses,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. "This legislation offers a proven stimulus that will help turn our economy around.” According the to Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, over 52,500 New York City residents are workers without dependants who receive food stamps. In June 2008, over half a million New Yorkers were without jobs. As the economy continues to spiral downward the number of unemployed workers who would be eligible to participate in the program is likely to rise. The Food Security Act of 2008 would provide much needed benefits to unemployed workers struggling to find their next job. ###
08.15.2008	NEW YORK, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today joined leaders from the Grand Street Settlement at the 2nd Annual Lower East Side Youth Day. She announced federal support for an initiative aimed at providing at-risk teens with access to computers and technology. The U.S. Department of Justice will make funding available to ensure the continued success of the program, which serves nearly 2,000 youth and families each year. “Teaching computer skills and giving access to emerging technology is a great way to keep young New Yorkers interested in learning and on the path toward a successful future,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “The Grand Street Settlement offers positive choices for Lower East Side youth, helping them expand their skills and prepare for a better future.” The federal funds will support Grand Street Settlement’s Computer Technology Center, which offers local residents access to computers and technology they may not otherwise have the chance to use. The Center provides computer literacy workshops, multimedia courses and access to cutting edge technology. The Settlement’s programs for at-risk youth, age 6 to 18, focus on leadership skills, academic achievement, self-esteem, cultural diversity, responsibility and goal setting. “We are incredibly grateful to Congresswoman Velazquez for helping secure federal funds to go towards our Computer Technology Center. Grand Street Settlement is committed to preparing our youth to succeed in life, and our technology center gives them the resources they need for college and the job market. Not only does the Computer Technology Center provide these crucial skills, it is also a place with state-of-the-art technology that allows them to explore their creativity and expand their learning experiences,” said Pablo Tejada, Grand Street Settlement’s Assistant Executive Director, Youth & Community Development. Since 1916, Grand Street Settlement has expanded opportunities for low-income families and individuals by providing culturally relevant services that support community building, advocacy, self-determination and an enriched quality of life. Every year the agency assists more than 10,000 Lower East Siders, from toddlers in Early Head Start to school-age youth, young adults and seniors. The Settlement’s summer camps are some of the last remaining free summer programs for young people in the City. ###
08.14.2008	New York, NY –Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) today tested the waters of the East River and joined New York City youth as they learned about marine ecology, habitat and the history of the Brooklyn waterfront. The Congresswoman participated in the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy’s Cove Camp, an educational initiative targeting at-risk and underserved kids. She has supported the group’s youth programming and helped secure resources through the Department of Justice, Office of Juvenile Programs, enabling the Conservancy to expand its educational programming. “Brooklyn’s waterfront provides its neighbors the opportunity to interact with nature in a beautiful and evolving setting. By giving New York City kids the chance to learn about the Harbor and Brooklyn Bridge, we are teaching them about the importance of preserving the environment and opening their eyes to new educational horizons,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Cove Camp is facilitated by the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy, along with the Center for the Urban Environment, and reaches out to local public schools and free day camps to bring young people to the waterfront park. Participants become explorers of the unique ecological and historic environment of the Brooklyn waterfront. The students study the history of the Brooklyn Bridge, build model suspension bridges and compete in a scavenger hunt to learn about the effects of the bridge’s construction on the five boroughs. Moving to the natural environment, they explore the East River ecosystem and conduct water testing in The Cove. Through these activities, local youth gain an understanding of how industry helped shape the waterfront and how the impact of human construction has affected the ecosystem. “The Conservancy is grateful for the generous support of Congresswoman Velázquez,” said Nancy Webster, Vice President of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy. “We’re looking forward to creating a year-round educational initiative that reaches out to Brooklyn public schools and free day camps to bring underserved young people to Brooklyn Bridge Park for education programs focusing on marine ecology and habitat and the history of the Brooklyn waterfront.” The Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy conducts educational programs for local residents and youth. In addition to Cove Camp, the group’s educational project includes events and courses such as seining in the East River, birdwatching, a butterfly program and Wee Park Citizens, a hands-on education program for toddlers. The Conservancy has also created the “Green Team” stewardship program offering community service options for young people. This Fall, the Conservancy will work with local public schools to begin educational programming in Brooklyn Bridge Park during the school year. The Conservancy expects to serve 4,500 young people within the first three years of its expanded educational initiative. ### About the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy The Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy (www.brooklynbridgepark.org) has worked for twenty years to ensure the creation, adequate funding, proper maintenance, public support, and citizen enjoyment of Brooklyn Bridge Park through partnership with the public sector, development of programming, and active promotion of the needs of the park and its constituents. Since 2000, more than a quarter of a million visitors have enjoyed the Conservancy’s free, public programs in the beginnings of Brooklyn Bridge Park.
08.04.2008	New York, NY – As the Hamilton-Madison House rolls out its Community Improvement Project, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) applauds the group for bringing valuable social services to Lower Manhattan’s immigrant populations. The organization has received a federal grant for $95,000 from the Department of Health and Human Services to assist in the implementation of this new program assisting seniors and working families. “For 110 years, the Hamilton Madison House has evolved to serve the needs of the Lower East Side,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “By taking advantage of the federal grants available for community organizations they have been able to grow their programs and reach more New Yorkers.” The federal grant funding will be used to employ a case manager for the Hamilton-Madison House’s Chinatown Resource Center and a program coordinator for its Senior Adult Day Program. The Chinatown Resource Center provides a one-stop immigrant services center with social service referrals, entitlement counseling, translation services, and wellness activities like yoga and tai chi. The Senior Adult Day Program is the only day program in New York City for Chinese-speaking seniors, providing assistance to those with Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia so they can remain active members of the community. The House serves 17,000 children and adults in Lower Manhattan’s Two Bridges/Chinatown who are Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Cambodian, Hispanic and Caucasian. “The Hamilton Madison House serves as an advocate and ally for thousands of immigrant families seeking to improve their lives in New York City. Federal grant programs are designed to help dedicated organizations such as this one develop programs for those at need,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Congresswoman Velázquez has helped New York City organizations identify available grants and apply for federal assistance. Up-to-date information on grants is compiled and distributed monthly in her Grant Update. These reports are focused on grants that may apply to New York City non-profits, universities, community-based groups, faith-based organizations and small businesses. For more information about how your organization can benefit from federal grants, please contact Congresswoman Velázquez’s Washington, DC office at 202-225-2361 or visit: www.house.gov/velazquez/constituents/grants.html. ###
07.29.2008	NEW YORK, N.Y. — Faced with the rising cost of food, energy and healthcare, many New Yorkers are struggling to make ends meet. Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez today unveiled legislation that would expand the food stamps program to allow New Yorkers to keep food on the table while they search for work. She was joined at Bushwick’s Family Services Network of New York by Commissioner David Hansel of the NYS Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, Executive Deputy Commissioner Mario Musolino of the NYS Department of Labor, Executive Director Joel Berg of the NYC Coalition Against Hunger and other hunger advocates who lent their support to these latest efforts. “With the high cost of living in our City, unemployed workers are especially vulnerable to the declining economy,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “By extending the food stamps benefits, we can provide New Yorkers with the resources needed to make it out of this crisis and strengthen our City’s workforce.” The “Food Security Act of 2008” would extend to 12 months the amount of time that Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWDs) are eligible to receive food stamp assistance. Under current law, these unemployed workers can only receive three months of food stamp benefits for every 36 month period in which they are out of work. With the tightening job market, it now takes one out of every five unemployed workers six months or more to secure a new job. The Congresswoman’s reforms to the food stamp program could be implemented quickly and cover the gap during those extra months it often takes to find employment. “When New Yorkers find their resources stretched thin, the food stamp program puts meals on millions of tables. Extending the program would offer fast relief for those struggling to make ends meet,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. The additional food stamp coverage provided in the Congresswoman’s legislation is increasingly important in New York City, where 1.6 million residents reported in 2007 that they would not be able to afford needed food after the loss of their household income. This number is up an alarming 23 percent in the past four years. In addition, extending food stamps has been found to be the most effective way to stimulate the economy, providing a nearly $2 boost to the gross domestic product (GDP) for every $1 of benefit. That is far more than the economic benefit of extending the Bush Administration’s income tax cuts, because food stamp benefits are spent within the matter of a few weeks. “Food stamp dollars go right back into the local economy, providing support for those in need and bolstering local businesses,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. Recent reports from the U.S. Department of Labor reveal that the national unemployment rate jumped more in May than any single month over the past two decades. In total, 438,000 jobs disappeared in the first six months of the year. Minority communities across the country are suffering some of the highest rates of unemployment, with 9.7% of African Americans and 6.9% of Latinos reported jobless. In June 2008, New York State had 505,100 jobless workers – an 18% increase over the previous year. ###
07.18.2008	NEW YORK, N.Y. — Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today sent a letter to the top federal judge in Brooklyn requesting additional consideration for the new location and layout of the Federal Probation office. The letter was co-signed by members of the Brooklyn Congressional delegation, Senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Representatives Edolphus Towns and Yvette D. Clarke. The following letter was delivered this afternoon to Raymond J. Dearie, Chief Judge of the United States District Court, Eastern District of New York: July 18, 2008 Dear Judge Dearie, As we recently learned, the Federal Probation and Federal Defenders offices are in the process of consolidating and relocating in the Brooklyn Heights neighborhood. As we also now know, the new location is right next door to Saint Ann’s School. Perhaps not surprisingly, this move has inspired a great deal of neighborhood anxiety. In the last few weeks, our offices have received many calls from angry constituents and concerned parents. Understandably, they are alarmed by the idea of school children being in such close proximity to a facility which services offenders. The facility, in fact, will be situated directly between Saint Ann’s lower and upper school buildings. This move warrants careful consideration. Already, parents and neighbors are engaged in an effective dialogue with the Department of Probation, which appears committed to the security of our children. As we are sure your office would agree, the safety of our students and the peace of mind of their parents is – and should continue to be – a top priority. We would very much like to work with your office towards this end. We understand that those visiting the probation facility are generally non-violent offenders on “supervised release.” Nevertheless, the facility’s new setting has given many parents pause. In light of its proximity to Saint Ann’s, particular consideration should be given to factors such as the facility’s immediate location and layout. Thank you for your consideration of this issue. We appreciate your time and look forward to working with you on this sensitive matter.
07.01.2008	NEW YORK, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today announced support from the U.S. Department of Energy for the implementation of a green roof initiative in Brooklyn. The Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation (SBIDC) will use the resources to create a 12,500 sq. ft. garden atop a Red Hook factory. This effort will demonstrate that green roof design has cost-effective, environmental benefits and should be implemented in future projects. “The benefits are clear: lower energy prices, cleaner rivers and a more eco-friendly city. I’m proud to be part of this energy-efficient project in our city,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Green roofs can lead the way in helping New York City businesses and residents deal with the rising cost of heating and cooling their buildings. They also present new opportunities for green space in dense urban areas.” The Linda Tool & Die Corporation building in Red Hook will serve as the pilot effort in the Southwest Brooklyn IDC’s “Green Roof Project.” It will demonstrate the use of green roof design as a viable strategy for increasing energy efficiency and reducing heat reflections that contribute to the greenhouse effect. By absorbing rainfall, a green roof can also reduce storm runoff by retaining up to 75% of rain water. In New York City, where combined sewer overflows (CSOs) cause pollution in the Harbor Estuary, green roofs offer considerable environmental potential. “SBIDC is proud to have spearheaded this initiative and we are hopeful that it will affect policy by showing the true benefits, both economic and environmental, of green roofs. We thank Congresswoman Velázquez and her dedicated staff for their vision and dedication to this project,” said Josh Keller, Executive Director, Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation. The Southwest Brooklyn IDC has partnered with local contractors and scientists to complete the project, including Michael Johannes of Nations Roof; Stuart R. Gaffin, Ph.D., of Columbia University’s Center for Climate Systems Research; Paul Mankiewicz of the Gaia Institute; and Cortney Worrall of the Coastal Marine Resource Center. Since 1978, SBIDC has provided businesses in Sunset Park, Red Hook and Gowanus with the resources they need to overcome day-to-day challenges, including human resource assistance and programs to help balance the rising costs of energy.
05.19.2008	NEW YORK, NY – During a celebration of the arts held at Bushwick’s P.S. 257 elementary school, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today presented the Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC) with a check in the amount of $188,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice. The federal funding will be used to expand arts education in six public schools in the Bushwick and Red Hook communities. “High quality art programs are vital to a well-rounded education, and a sound investment in our children’s future,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. “Expanding after school arts activities, will give local students improved access to positive creative outlets and help them in becoming tomorrow’s innovative leaders.” Research has shown that students who study the arts have significantly higher class attendance rates and are more successful on standardized tests such as the SATs. Despite this, funding cuts have threatened arts programs in schools across the City. The federal funds secured by Congresswoman Velazquez are designated for arts education workshops aimed at preventing juvenile delinquency and violence in New York City’s underserved communities. In addition to providing classes for students, BAC will train teachers at each school. Three Brooklyn schools will launch their programs in Fall 2008: P.S. 257 John F. Hylan School, where BAC will work with 5th graders for a drama program focused on public speaking; P.S. 145 Andrew Jackson School, where the 5th grade class will participate in a drama class focused on conflict resolution; and P.S. 15 Patrick F. Daly School, where BAC will help 2nd and 5th graders restore and create murals at the school. The following year, BAC will work with I.S. 347 School of Humanities; P.S. 274 Kosciusko School; and P.S. 377 Alejandrina B. De Gautier to develop arts programs tailored to the needs of their students. “Brooklyn Arts Council is excited about this opportunity to provide a constructive outlet for at-risk youth in six deserving schools in the 12th district through its Arts in Education program. This grant will enable BAC to bring much-needed arts programming into schools, which will have a tremendous impact on student’s lives, both personally and academically and give them an opportunity to cultivate an interest in the arts that will last a lifetime,” said Ella J. Weiss, President of Brooklyn Arts Council. The Brooklyn Arts Council was founded in 1966, providing services for Brooklyn’s cultural groups and individual artists working in the visual, performing, media and literary arts. Due to their efforts, thousands of people throughout Brooklyn have access to a variety of free arts programming each year. In addition, BAC conducts the Arts in Education program, providing a wide array of arts programming for students, teachers, parents and community members. Their collaborative approach allows for personalized workshops, enriching hands-on experiences, and positive interactions with the arts designed to be retained for a lifetime.
05.02.2008	NEW YORK, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today presented El Puente with a check in the amount of $214,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The federal funding will be used to support a wellness program providing Brooklyn youth and their families with information on disease prevention and management. The health education initiative will focus on diseases that impact the North Brooklyn community, including obesity, diabetes, STDs, HIV/AIDS and environmentally-connected diseases like asthma. “For our students to be top performers, we need to make sure that every aspect of their mind, body and soul is healthy and active,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “I am dedicated to targeting federal funds to programs that will make a difference in the community. With El Puente’s long-standing history of success, Brooklyn youth will undoubtedly benefit from this wellness program.” The funds secured by Congresswoman Velázquez will be used for a partnership between El Puente, NYC Health and Hospital Corporation, the New York University School of Medicine and other public health collaborators. They are working together to create a Wellness Center for adolescents and their families, with a special emphasis on Bushwick and Williamsburg residents. “This funding will allow El Puente and its major partners to plan for the development of clinics that will support its members to go beyond the notion of disease prevention to a level of optimum fitness. I applaud Congresswoman Velázquez for her visionary, proactive support,” said Luis Garden Acosta, founder and director of El Puente. For more than 25 years, El Puente has promoted leadership and human rights in the Brooklyn community through arts, education, scientific research, wellness and environmental action. El Puente provides local residents with learning and development opportunities at three neighborhood Leadership Centers and the El Puente Academy for Peace and Justice, the nation’s first public high school for human rights.
04.30.2008	Brooklyn, NY – With the opening of a new Small Business Development Center (SBDC) at the New York City College of Technology, entrepreneurs in Brooklyn will gain increased access to the resources and technical expertise needed to help start a business or grow their existing firms. At the ribbon cutting yesterday Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y), Chair of the U.S. House Committee on Small Business, highlighted the importance of expanding entrepreneurial development services to foster small business growth and strengthen the economy. “Thousands of New Yorkers every year have the drive to start their own business. With the one-on-one assistance provided at an SBDC, these entrepreneurs can get their operations up and running smoothly. By opening this center in the heart of Brooklyn, we are working to bring new jobs to the community and ensuring that local entrepreneurs have the resources they need to turn their great ideas into successful businesses,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. As Chairwoman of the Committee on Small Business, Congresswoman Velázquez has worked to ensure that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) provides the SBDC program with sufficient resources and targets counseling and training services to women, veterans, people with special needs and minority clients. Entrepreneurial development programs have been critical to the success of small business owners nationwide, with studies showing that entrepreneurs who receive this assistance are twice as likely to succeed as those who have not. “The face of small business in our nation is changing. It’s crucial that federal programs reach out to aspiring entrepreneurs in the heart of our communities and provide resources that match their needs,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “With the help of training and guidance provided at the SBDC, our local store owners and business innovators can continue to serve a vital role in boosting the economy.” Since its creation in 1984, the New York State SBDC has assisted over 277,000 New Yorkers, helping them acquire and invest over $3.6 billion in the state's small business economy, helping to create or save 130,000 jobs in New York State. In Brooklyn, SBDC advisors have worked directly with 9,853 businesses, helping them to invest $37 million in the area’s economy and create or save 1,817 jobs. The City Tech SBDC is located at 25 Chapel Street, 11th floor, in Downtown Brooklyn, and will be open Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. For a high resolution photograph from the event, click here.
04.24.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today applauded action by the House of Representatives requiring the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to conduct a full-site characterization of Newtown Creek and determine the true extent of the damage from a decades-old, underground petroleum spill. A measure requiring the study was included in the Coast Guard Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2830), which the House approved this afternoon. For years, Representative Velázquez has pushed efforts to fully assess the extent of damage to Newtown Creek, a polluted waterway that separates Brooklyn and Queens. Oil has been found across 55 acres, seeping into the Creek and settling under homes and businesses in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. In 2006, she authored legislation requiring the first-ever, independent public health and safety study of Newtown Creek. The results of that study indicated the original estimates of the spill may have been far too low, and suggested that the total oil released into the Creek may be as high as 30 million gallons. This pointed to the need for a full-site characterization. The following is Congresswoman Velázquez’s statement in the House of Representatives: “Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of important language in Chairman Oberstar’s managers amendment to H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Reauthorization Act. This amendment is critical for my constituents who live in the Greenpoint area in Brooklyn. I want to thank Chairman Oberstar and others on the Committee who saw the need for this language, and were willing to act on it. This important amendment directs the Environmental Protection Agency to conduct a follow-up study on the Newtown Creek oil spill. The new EPA study builds upon my earlier effort with my distinguished colleague, Mr. Weiner, to get the EPA to issue a comprehensive report on the oil spill. That earlier report by the EPA, issued last Fall, was an important step forward but it raised as many questions as it answered. Mr. Chairman, it is appropriate that we are considering this issue on a Coast Guard bill. It was the Coast Guard, nearly 30 years ago, that discovered the Newtown Creek oil spill in Greenpoint. The spill is massive, and scientists lack accurate measurements of the scope and impact of the whole of the plume. That's why we need a full-site characterization of the Creek, so we know just what is in, around and underneath the Creek bed. The basic condition of the Creek was not comprehensively addressed in the earlier report. It’s past time for a full-site characterization of Newtown Creek. The goal is not merely oil plume containment, but plume removal. We must help give this important waterway safely back to the community, for its use and enjoyment. I also am deeply concerned about what threat this material poses to the public. A full site characterization should also allow us to better measure the public health impact of the oil spill. Residents in this part of Brooklyn suffer from asthma, emphysema and bronchitis at a 25 percent higher rate than the rest of the City. Child asthma hospital admissions are especially high. A full site characterization can help public health professionals draw conclusions about the impact of the oil spill on the health of the local community. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I want to thank Mr. Weiner for his long-term partnership and hard work in addressing the serious public policy problem posed by the Newtown Creek Oil Spill. I would urge the EPA to seize upon these clear instructions from Congress, and help New York understand just what it is facing at Newtown Creek. Only a full site characterization can accomplish this worthy goal.”
04.18.2008	“Trading one troubled agency for another is short-sighted, and it could not come at a worse time for the American people,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, who chairs the House Small Business Committee and is New York City’s senior Member on the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. “HUD’s crisis must be resolved without delay. But the fact remains the agency Mr. Preston has been responsible for leading is still plagued by serious problems of its own. Large businesses continue getting small business contracts, SBA’s Katrina disaster relief program is a failure, and morale of the agency’s personnel is one of the lowest in the federal government.”
04.14.2008	BROOKLYN, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today announced legislation to provide community agencies with the funding and flexibility to create mentoring programs that best suit their needs for preventing teen pregnancy. During a visit to the High School for Enterprise, Business and Technology HS 478 in Williamsburg, Congresswoman Velázquez met with students and teachers to discuss the effectiveness of comprehensive sexual education efforts and the need for mentoring services. “A well-designed mentoring program builds confidence and shows our teenage girls that anything is possible. They get to know a young woman who can relate to what is happening in a teenager’s life. A mentor can lead by example, can listen and give advice. We know that positive influences lead to positive outcomes,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. The “Mentor-Mentee Teen Pregnancy Reduction Act of 2008” would provide funding for school-based programs that pair-up recent college graduates with at-risk high school girls. Program participants would have the flexibility to discuss a wide range of prevention and safe sex strategies that fit the needs of their community. The mentors would be eligible to participate in a student loan repayment program – providing $2,000 in loan forgiveness for every 200 hours of service. The Congresswoman’s initiative follows recent reports by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that the teen birth rate in the United States rose in 2006 for the first time in 15 years. The teen pregnancy rate for New York City is historically higher than the national rate: nearly one in 10 girls age 15-19 became pregnant in 2005. “It’s time to focus on programs that do more than preach to our students. We have to foster sensible approaches to educating teens about safe-sex. Mentoring programs could have a real impact during this crucial time in the lives of our young girls,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. The legislation provides the flexibility for programs to take a comprehensive approach to sex education, combining one-on-one mentoring with a set of workshops and after-school activities that have shown signs of success in preventing teenage pregnancies. In recent months, states have spoken out against education funding that is restricted to “abstinence-only-until-marriage” programs. Seventeen states – including New York – turned back $15 million in federal Title V funds for 2007 because of the limiting nature of the program. Congresswoman Velázquez’s bill is fiscally responsible because it would use the Title V money that has been turned back by the states and apply those funds to mentoring programs for high school girls. “Neighborhoods throughout the country, and even within New York City, have different needs when it comes to addressing teenage pregnancy. But across the board, we know that teens want to have open and honest conversations about the issues they face. My bill would foster those discussions though mentoring programs and provide a realistic response to this public health concern,” Congresswoman Velázquez said.
03.31.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), New York City’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today issued the following statement in response to the resignation of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson. “Throughout Secretary Jackson’s tenure, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has been asleep at the switch. Programs of vital importance to New Yorkers, including Section 8 and Community Development Block Grants, have been continuously slashed, placing thousands of New York families in jeopardy. Given the housing crisis, HUD needs a strong leader who can live up to the pressing responsibilities of the agency and will put the issues ahead of political partisanship. New Yorkers deserve nothing less.”
03.27.2008	BROOKLYN, NY – With tax season in full swing, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today visited a community center in Sunset Park to encourage local workers to seek out free tax preparation services being offered for Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) recipients. The Congresswoman announced new legislation that would strengthen the EITC to provide an additional credit for the hardest workers in our economy who often do not receive overtime pay or other benefits. “The Earned Income Tax Credit is one of our most important anti-poverty tools, and it helps to build the middle-class. It’s vitally important that every eligible taxpayer receives this credit, and I commend the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park and Food Bank for New York for all they are doing to provide free, bilingual tax preparation services to the community,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. At today’s event, Congresswoman Velázquez stressed that in addition to filing for the Earned Income Tax Credit, local residents must file a tax return this year to be eligible for the one-time economic stimulus rebate. The rebates, totaling hundreds of dollars per family, will be sent automatically to qualified individuals who have filled out a 2007 tax return. “This year, the stimulus rebate will provide much-needed support to more than 8.3 million New Yorkers,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Now we must look forward, and work to create a tax benefit that will lend a hand of assistance to the hardest workers who continue to struggle to make ends meet.” The Congresswoman’s legislation, “The Overtime Restoration Act of 2008,” would strengthen the EITC for low-income individuals who work more than 40 hours per week. The bill would provide a worker who is eligible for the EITC with a one percent bonus credit for every week he or she exceeds 40 hours of work. According to the Census Bureau, 64,000 people in the New York City area received the EITC in 2005 and reported that they regularly worked more than 40 hours per week. These are the workers targeted by the Congresswoman’s legislative proposal. “It’s clear that our neighbors are forced to take on second and third jobs, working nights and weekends, just to make ends meet. Yet they aren’t getting benefits or overtime pay from any of their employers. The Overtime Restoration Act would provide our hardest workers with the additional credit they need to get through these tough economic times,” Congresswoman Velázquez said.
03.27.2008	BROOKLYN, NY — Rep. Nydia Velázquez yesterday evening hosted an information fair titled “Saving Our Community One Home at a Time.” Housing and legal service counselors joined representatives from city, state and federal housing and mortgage agencies to offer workshops and one-on-one consultations on topics such as home loan refinancing. The forum, held in Bushwick, empowered families with information that will help them weather trends in the real estate market. “If you are a current homeowner or are thinking about purchasing a home, you need to know your rights and what assistance is available to help you make the correct decisions,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “That’s what today’s forum is all about. It offers attendees an opportunity to get clear answers and objective advice from experts.” Over the past decade, New York City has seen a sharp increase in the rate of home ownership. Unfortunately—in the City and across the nation—that positive trend has been undermined by unscrupulous lending practices. Today, New York is experiencing the same economic downturn felt by all Americans, leaving many in the Big Apple looking for assistance without knowing where to turn. “I remain committed to arming New Yorkers with facts and expanded access to practical resources,” said Congresswoman Velázquez, who is New York City’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. “It is crucial for homeowners to understand they have options and that foreclosure is not the answer. Our City’s housing market is strong. With informed and timely action, it will continue to grow.” The event featured information (in both English and Spanish) from a wide range of organizations, including: ACORN Housing Corporation Brooklyn Cooperative Federal Credit Union Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation Countrywide Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation Department of Housing and Urban Development Erasmus Neighborhood Federation Fannie Mae Freddie Mac Greater Ridgewood Restoration Corporation Legal Aid Society Neighborhood Housing Services of Bedford-Stuyvesant NYS Banking Department NYS Attorney General Parodneck Foundation Pratt Area Community Council South Brooklyn Legal Services
03.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) was honored yesterday evening by the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC) with their 2008 Chairman’s Award. The award recognizes her work in support of Latino small business owners. “We selected Congresswoman Velázquez for her outstanding public service and support of the interests of our Hispanic business community,” said David C. Lizárraga, USHCC Board Chairman. “She has been instrumental in advancing policy positions that help foster economic growth in our community and among all small businesses. Her work serves as an example and inspiration to the millions of Hispanic entrepreneurs throughout our nation.” In 2006, she was named Chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, becoming the first Latina to chair a full Congressional committee. During Congresswoman Velázquez’s first year in the position, the Committee approved a record number of bills – 19 – with broad bipartisan support. As an advocate for minority-owned firms, she has worked to pass legislation that modernizes entrepreneurial development programs, increases access to federal contracts and creates incentives for banks to provide financing to small firms in minority communities. “Hispanic business owners have demonstrated that they possess the initiative to succeed, and have made great contributions to our nation’s economy,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “I will continue to work on the issues that most affect Latino small firms and their employees, including access to affordable healthcare and funding for start-up businesses.” Founded in 1979, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce actively promotes the economic growth and development of Hispanic entrepreneurs and represents the interests of more than 2.5 million Hispanic-owned businesses in the United States that generate more than $388 billion annually. It also serves as the umbrella organization for 200 local Hispanic chambers in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Bolivia and Uruguay.
02.15.2008	NEW YORK, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) yesterday evening presented a check for $195,000 to the Chinese-American Planning Council (CPC) for the expansion of its counseling, English language education, vocational training and work placement programs. “I am pleased to secure federal funding to support the efforts of the Chinese-American Planning Council, and I will continue to bring the resources needed to help invigorate and grow the local economy,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “The CPC’s classes and services have helped thousands of newly-arrived immigrants gain the skills they need for a smooth transition into American life.” Congresswoman Velázquez successfully secured the $195,000 of funding in the Fiscal Year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill to assist in the expansion of the CPC’s Employment & Training program. Since 1965, CPC has provided placement services, job-readiness training, employment counseling and other support services to help newly-arrived immigrants integrate into the American workforce. The Employment & Training program currently serves 500 workers per year – educating them in seven different vocational programs. In addition, CPC provides English as a Second Language (ESL) classes to approximately 400 adults, many of whom also participate in their vocational training programs.
02.12.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), New York City’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today issued the following statement in response to the Bush Administration’s announcement of an initiative aimed at addressing the rising number of home foreclosures. “For years, the President ignored warnings about the looming foreclosures crisis. His inactions left homeowners stranded and allowed the problem to grow into the crisis we have today. The New York housing market now stands to lose more than $9 billion in housing wealth in the next two years,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “The President was asleep at the switch for years, yet his lifeline only lasts 30 days. This attempt at a quick fix falls way short of stemming the tide of foreclosures.” Congresswoman Velázquez yesterday participated in a Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit field hearing at City Hall on the effects of the subprime mortgage crisis in New York City. In late January, she convened a roundtable of housing and finance experts to discuss viable short- and long-term solutions to the mortgage foreclosure crisis threatening New York City homeowners. Possible legislative solutions being considered include the passage of a temporary bankruptcy fix to allow for the modification of home mortgage terms, boosting access to homeownership counseling and legal services, the expansion of financial literacy programs, and revamping the Community Reinvestment Act to level the playing field among mortgage players. “This crisis requires more than lip service. While homeowners need a lifeline, those who benefited from this flawed system must be held accountable. Foreclosures crush the American dream of economic stability and success. Only by working together can we hope to reduce the effects on our local economy and protect New Yorkers’ valuable investments,” Congresswoman Velázquez said.
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today expressed her disappointment that the Bush Administration has released yet another budget that would do more harm than good for working families and urban communities. The budget, proposed earlier this week by President George W. Bush, outlines his spending priorities for all federal government programs. It includes devastating cuts to housing, healthcare, and economic development initiatives designed to help Americans and revitalize our neighborhoods. “The cost of living keeps on rising and President Bush wants to make things worse. We need to invest in our communities, not short change them with cuts to vital programs,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. Despite the housing crisis impacting neighborhoods across the nation, President Bush has proposed funding reductions for vital federal housing programs. The overall budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would be cut by five percent, disproportionately impacting low-income families, elderly residents and minority groups. “This President has mismanaged the nation’s finances, and he’s making New Yorkers pay the price,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “President Bush wants to cut funding for housing and urban development projects by $1.9 billion. This can only mean that programs with a proven rate of success will be unable to continue providing critical resources to New Yorkers.” In January, the national economy lost 17,000 jobs – the first time in nearly five years that the United States has experienced a decrease of this type. With this grim picture emerging, the Administration’s budget unwisely neglects the needs of small business owners by slashing programs to make affordable capital readily available and encourage the creation and growth of small firms. “The President’s budget fails to recognize the current economic realities. Small businesses fuel the economy in a downturn, yet key initiatives to benefit entrepreneurs are terminated or cut in the President’s budget. This is the absolute wrong move at a time when the economy isn’t creating new jobs.” A number of priorities important to New Yorkers were negatively impacted by the proposal released today. These include: Public Housing Programs: In his Fiscal Year 2009 budget, Bush decreased overall funding for public housing programs by five percent. The operating fund level needed to keep our public housing developments running was short changed by $900 million. Compounding the problem, the capital fund program would be cut by $413 million—including a cut of $74.9 million in New York. This would jeopardize repairs to buildings and place at risk the safety of tenants. These cuts would come at a time when the New York City Housing Authority announced a $198 million deficit for Fiscal Year 2009. Housing Assistance for Elderly and Disabled: President Bush ignores the needs of our most vulnerable residents by proposing a 27 percent cut to an important elderly housing assistance program, as well as a 32 percent decrease in funding for a housing program benefiting the disabled. Economic Development: For the third year in a row, funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program was drastically reduced—from $4.2 billion in FY08 to just $2.9 billion in FY09. For New York City, this would mean a loss of $64.5 million in funding. The proposed cut threatens a program that has helped to revitalize urban neighborhoods through job creation, spurring economic development and expansion of home ownership. Healthcare: President Bush has proposed to cut Medicare and Medicaid funding by $195.6 billion over five years, threatening to leave seniors and low-income residents without the coverage they need. In addition, the FY09 budget cuts funding for the Centers for Disease Control by $433 million. Small Businesses: Programs with a history of benefiting New York entrepreneurs would receive substantial cuts or be eliminated altogether under the President’s proposed budget. The services provided by New York’s five Women’s Business Centers are in high demand, yet the President’s proposed budget slashes funding for these and other small business development programs. In addition, the Bush administration budget includes no funding for the Microloan Technical Assistance program, which helps many minority- and women-owned firms access the capital they need to get their businesses off the ground.
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement in recognition of the Chinese New Year – the Year of the Rat, which begins today and is followed by 15 days of celebrations and festivals. “Today we mark the beginning of the Chinese New Year, which will be recognized by more than 1.5 billion people around the world. In New York City, vibrant Chinatown communities in Lower Manhattan, Brooklyn and Flushing, Queens will anchor the celebrations. This holiday provides an opportunity for New Yorkers of all backgrounds to join together with their Asian American neighbors. During the 15-day celebration, we take the time to honor our families, celebrate the rich history of ancient Chinese culture and recognize achievements within the Chinese communities. The Year of the Rat begins today, and as the first sign of the Chinese zodiac it is a time of hard work, activity and renewal. A Rat year is known as a good time to make a fresh start. We will have the opportunity to start anew as the nation comes together to elect a President with the experience to guide us to great achievements. Chinese communities in New York City and across the country have truly carved out a presence in American life. Now we must join together to ensure that the needs of this group – which are truly the needs of our entire nation – are not ignored. As the country faces a difficult economic forecast, we can learn from Chinese American entrepreneurs who continue to forge a path of innovation and prosperity. We must work together to overcome barriers to affordable housing, health care and a quality education. The Year of the Rat will be a time to build new relationships, strengthen ties to the community, and ensure that the programs needed for your success are fully-funded and accessible to all. I wish you all the best for a new year full of great achievements and wonderful moments with your family and friends. Congratulations, and may you find peace and prosperity in the coming months.”
02.06.2008	Washington, DC – February 6, 2008 – Today Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-16) and Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez (NY-12) called on Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) to apologize to the Puerto Rican people after the Florida Republican put out a statement saying that as “foreigners,” Puerto Ricans did not deserve tax rebates offered through the economic stimulus package. “I have confronted this lack of knowledge about Puerto Ricans for years; Representative Brown-Waite’s statement is just a new form of the same old careless ignorance,” Congressman Serrano said. “That said, I believe that Rep. Brown-Waite, once she was made aware of her mistake, should have retracted the statement, and apologized. Puerto Ricans are among the most patriotic of America’s citizens, and to label them ‘foreigners’ disparages their vast contributions to our nation. Additionally, I make no apologies for my efforts to include Puerto Ricans in the stimulus package. I worked hard on this, not just because their economy is linked closely with ours, but also because there’s no reason in my mind why any American should be treated as a second-class citizen. To leave the Puerto Ricans out would have been unfair and economically unwise.” “Congresswoman Brown-Waite’s remarks about U.S. citizens of Puerto Rican descent were a painful reminder that America is still struggling to realize the strengths of its own diversity. Today it should be common knowledge that Puerto Ricans are citizens of the United States and contributing members of our national economy and armed forces. It is simply inexcusable for a member of the United States Congress to call the Puerto Rican people ‘foreigners,’ and unimaginable that an apology has not been issued,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “As a woman of Puerto Rican descent, I feel compelled to speak for our community, and to educate the uneducated. It is amazing that a member of Congress who has the responsibility for casting votes on behalf of tens of thousands of Americans could be so uninformed about the Constitution. It makes you wonder how many other times her understanding of complex issues has been wrong.”
02.04.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – As local working families begin to prepare their tax returns, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today announced that free tax filing assistance is available for residents in New York’s 12th Congressional District who qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit. “The Earned Income Tax Credit is one of our most important anti-poverty tools. At a time when the rise in costs of living has left many in our city cash-strapped, the Earned Income Tax Credit can help them make ends meet,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Applying for the EITC can be complex and confusing for the average person. I encourage those who need assistance to visit one of the free tax preparation sites where community volunteers can help.” District 12 residents seeking free assistance applying for the Earned Income Tax Credit should dial 311 to find the location of the nearest Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) site. In areas where 311 is not available, they may dial 1-800-906-9887. Services are also available at the IRS-Brooklyn office, which will be operating on extended hours in February: Internal Revenue Service, Brooklyn office 625 Fulton Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201 Phone: (718) 488-2068 Regular Hours: Monday – Friday; 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Extended Hours: Saturdays, February 9 and 16; 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Those planning to visit one of the tax preparation sites should make sure to bring the following items: Proof of identification; Social Security Cards for you, your spouse and dependents and/or a Social Security Number verification letter issued by the Social Security Administration; Birth dates for you, your spouse and dependents on the tax return; Current year’s tax package if you received one; Wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, from all employers; Interest and dividend statements from banks (Forms 1099); A copy of last year’s Federal and State returns if available; Bank Routing Numbers and Account Numbers for Direct Deposit; Total paid for day care provider and the day care provider's tax identifying number (the provider's Social Security Number or the provider's business Employer Identification Number); Information for other income; Information for deductions/credits; and To file taxes electronically on a married filing joint tax return, both spouses must be present to sign the required forms.
01.28.2008	Many New Yorkers watched the President deliver his final State of the Union address this evening. These hard-working Americans were looking to their chief executive for new ideas on how to bolster the sagging economy, address high housing and energy costs, and end the War in Iraq. The President delivered none of that. President Bush chose to discuss what he believes to be successes in the War in Iraq, but each day that our troops remain in danger is a failure of his Administration. It’s clear that he doesn’t have a plan for withdrawal. It is time for the President to focus on the growing problems at home. Today, our national debt is $4.5 trillion higher than it was when President Bush took office. Yet an additional 9 million Americans are uninsured and almost 5 million more live in poverty. As he faces his last 50 weeks in office, it is time for the President to change his priorities and start focusing his efforts on Americans. The economic stimulus package that the House leadership worked with the President to formulate is a beginning. We need to further this commitment by creating new jobs at home, bolstering the housing market, and better protecting the American worker and small business owner. But tonight’s State of the Union address provided no sign that we can expect more long-term improvements from this President.
01.25.2008	BROOKLYN, NY – Following reports in the media that a five-year-old child was detained using handcuffs by a New York Police Department (NYPD) school safety agent, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today called on NYPD Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly to investigate the incident. The boy was reportedly placed in handcuffs and taken to Elmhurst Hospital Center for a mental evaluation after the January 17 incident at Queens’ Public School 81. The school falls within the boundaries of the 12th Congressional District, which is represented by Congresswoman Velázquez. The following is the text of the letter sent by Congresswoman Velazquez to Police Commissioner Kelly: January 25, 2008 Dear Police Commissioner Kelly: I write to express my deep concerns about an article published today by the Daily News regarding a 5-year old boy who may have been placed in handcuffs in public school and taken to Elmhurst Hospital Center. I am hoping your office can provide me with some more information. While I believe that safety must be maintained in our schools, there are parameters of corporal punishment especially for a 5-year old who misbehaves on school ground. Given the recent events I request a thorough investigation of the matter in order to ensure that the appropriate measures were taken by the school safety agents in administering discipline to this child. I appreciate your attention and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Cc: Chancellor Joel Klein Assemblywoman Catherine Nolan
01.24.2008	BROOKLYN, NY – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today brought together a panel of housing and finance experts to discuss viable short- and long-term solutions to the mortgage foreclosure crisis threatening New York City homeowners. She will use discussions from the forum to formulate recommendations for Congressional action through the economic stimulus package. The rate of subprime lending in New York City surpasses the national average. In fact, 19.8 percent of the loans issued to New Yorkers in 2006 were subprime, compared to 12.8 percent nationwide. New York City also has the highest housing price-to-income ratio in the nation. Seventy-five percent of homeowners in the City who earn less than $50,000 spend more than half of their income on housing. As a result, New York’s working families face escalating mortgage costs and the looming possibility of home foreclosure. “New York has a strong housing market, but the large number of homeowners with subprime loans and huge loan balances has created a precarious situation,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “It is time to focus on viable solutions and on the eradication of predatory lending practices that led to this crisis. We need to find ways to keep working families in their homes while protecting investments in flourishing neighborhoods across the City.” The Congresswoman was joined at today’s event by representatives from community-based organizations, local finance experts and policy makers. The panel discussed strategies to keep families in their homes, including working with lenders to renegotiate loan terms to prevent foreclosures, empowering homeowners to seek finance counseling, and minimizing the impact that the current crisis has on neighborhoods. In addition, the roundtable broached long-term solutions to address the root of the home-mortgage default problem while ensuring affordable access to credit for home buyers. “Congress is focused on an economic stimulus package that is timely, targeted, and temporary. It would be incomplete without factoring resources for those who are on the brink of losing their homes,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “I’m taking the ideas gathered at today’s roundtable back to Washington, where I will continue to work to ensure that the needs of New York homeowners are a top priority.” Congresswoman Velázquez is New York City’s senior Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity.
12.19.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez announced that she secured $3.2 million in federal funding for educational, economic development and environmental projects to benefit the community. The funding was secured in the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bills. “This funding will provide crucial support to our communities, helping to ensure their continued success and increased vitality,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “By taking these steps, we have invested in the well being of our neighborhoods– from local healthcare needs, to educating our children to preserving our environment.” Below is a list of the projects that Congresswoman Velázquez secured funding for: Woodhull Hospital: $321,000 in federal funding for equipment to be used in a hospital based radiologic technology school. Wyckoff Heights Medical Center: $400,000 for the development of a full service family practice medical office targeted for low-income residents in Brooklyn. El Puente: $214,000 for an obesity, diabetes, STDs and HIV/AIDS prevention program aimed at adolescents and their families. The initiative also focuses on education about how to manage environmentally connected diseases, such as asthma. Hudson Raritan Estuary – Gowanus Canal, New York, Environmental Restoration Project: $214,000 to continue the feasibility study for the environmental restoration of Brooklyn’s Gowanus Canal. Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation’s Red Hook Green Roof Project: $250,000 for a project aimed at promoting the use of green roof design as a cost effective and viable strategy for increasing energy efficiency and reducing heat reflection that contribute to the greenhouse effect. Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy: $282,000 to expand ongoing education and stewardship programs to teach at-risk youth about the waterfront’s history, habitat and ecology. Project for Public Spaces: $235,000 for efforts to preserve and revitalize the Moore Street Market in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Boricua College: $150,000 for supporting the renewal of improvements to the North Side campus, which houses a 3,669 square foot gym where intramural athletics are conducted. Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC): $188,000 for the expansion of the council’s Arts in Education program for at-risk youth in public schools throughout Brooklyn. Police Athletic League Miccio Center in Red Hook: $94,000 for youth programming, including education development and recreational programs in partnership with Red Hook Rise. North Brooklyn Development Corporation and Creative Development Center: $94,000 for the center’s after school youth services. Grand Street Settlement: $188,000 to provide two-years of support for the literacy-based multimedia programs of the Community Technology Center and the Computer Clubhouse, which serve 1,600 children, youth, adults and families annually. Hispanic Information and Telecommunications Network (HITN): $282,000 to fund a pilot initiative to educate Spanish-speaking Americans on financial literacy, small business development, homeownership and credit management issues. Hamilton Madison House: $97,000 for programs and equipment for a social services program aimed at helping area adults and senior-citizens. Chinese-American Planning Council: $195,000 to offer counseling, employment training, ESL education, vocational training, and placement assistance for unemployed and/or low-income residents.
11.14.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) made the following statement after Governor Eliot Spitzer announced he would no longer pursue his driver’s license plan. “Governor Spitzer should be commended for attempting to address an area where the federal government has failed miserably. For twelve years Republicans controlled the House, Senate, and White House and did nothing but agitate the issue. With one million undocumented individuals on New York’s roads annually - - all of which are driving without a license or insurance -- this is a public safety issue. But given public concern, the governor’s action to withdraw his proposal is prudent. This problem is not going away and only reinforces the need for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform that includes tough enforcement and border security with the necessary funding; coupled with a path to citizenship. I know that Governor Spitzer will continue to work with us on a solution that will bring America together.”
11.05.2007	Washington, DC –Today, Congressmembers Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent a letter to President Bush urging rapid aid to Haiti and the Dominican Republic, which were hit hard by Tropical Storm Noel. The letter reads as follows. November 2, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush President United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Mr. President: Last week’s devastating Tropical Storm Noel has caused great harm to our Caribbean neighbors. The loss of life and property are compounded by the continuing pain caused by the destruction of vital infrastructure and food crops. Both the Dominican Republic and Haiti are in need of significant humanitarian assistance from the United States. It has been reported that in the Dominican Republic alone more than 100 people are dead or missing, over 16,000 residences have been damaged and more than 65,000 individuals have been forced from their homes. Additionally, dozens of communities are inaccessible and heavy rains have destroyed entire fields of rice and plantains. Our country must act swiftly before the situation deteriorates further and more human lives are placed in danger, even as the water levels subside. The people of Haiti and the Dominican Republic need our help. The United States should provide assistance in the form of equipment to aid those communities isolated by the rains; materials to rebuild their damaged infrastructure and the economic resources necessary to prevent this natural disaster from becoming a more tragic humanitarian crisis. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress
10.31.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) sent the following letter to New York County District Attorney Robert Morgenthau, requesting a grand jury investigation into the death of Jayson Tirado at the hands of an off-duty police officer. The letter reads as follows: October 30, 2007 Honorable Robert Morgenthau District Attorney - New York County One Hogan Place New York, NY 10013 Dear District Attorney Morgenthau: I am writing to express my concern over the recent shooting incident involving an off-duty policeman. It has been reported that a grand jury has been convened. That grand jury investigation must move forward to determine the circumstances surrounding the tragic the death of Mr. Jayson Tirado at the hands of an off-duty police officer, Sean Sawyer, in a road rage confrontation. The Hispanic community in the city needs to understand what steps will be taken to prevent future tragedies such as this one. It is deeply alarming the chain of events that led to the death of Mr. Tirado and the actions taken after the fateful incident. Jayson Tirado, 25, who died SundayOctober21st, lived in the Jacob Riis House on the Lower East Side of Manhattan with his mother, a girlfriend, and 5 year old daughter. His family's pain is exacerbated by the appearance of inaction against the officer involved. Although a death has occurred in suspicious circumstances, detective Sean Sawyer apparently has only been suspended without pay. It is critical that a grand jury is presented evidence about this tragic event and make the appropriate deliberations. The community must see actions taken by our judicial system which prevents any public inference that police officers are allowed to break the law with impunity. I look forward to hearing from you regarding this important matter. Sincerely, Nydia M.Velázquez. Member of Congress
10.23.2007	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) expressed her strong objections to H.R. 900, the “Puerto Rico Democracy Act of 2007,” which was passed by the House Natural Resources Committee. Puerto Rico needed today a bill that reflected cooperation and compromise between stakeholders, but today’s bill failed to meet that simple goal. “I have said time and time again that the Puerto Rico status question must be resolved in a fair, inclusive and transparent manner – the process which shaped this bill was none of these things,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “My colleagues in the House leadership have also expressed the need for consensus and this bill does not represent that. I do, however, look forward to working with Members who wish to reach a compromise that provides for an unbiased, equitable and open process.”
09.12.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Anthony Weiner (D-N.Y) discussed the findings of an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study of Newtown Creek, the site of the nation’s largest oil spill. The independent study – the most comprehensive assessment of the area to date – was designed to analyze the recovery process and the health affects on the surrounding area. However, the report failed to address many of the specific health concerns of neighborhood residents, such as the respiratory affects on children. These shortfalls, coupled with information in the report indicating that the spill is significantly larger than previously thought, proves the need for increased recovery and research. “I am disappointed that many of our questions, particularly those that relate to health concerns, remain unanswered by the EPA’s study. It is still uncertain as to the affects this contamination is having on the surrounding community, and the full extent of the spill itself,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “While we received a few answers today, it is clear that we will still need to push to ensure that this oil spill and it is toxic remnants are cleaned up once and for all.” The spill at Newtown creek was originally estimated to be 17 million gallons, one and a half times larger than the notorious Exxon Valdez. Oil has already been found across 55 acres in the surrounding area, settling under homes and businesses in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. However, according to the EPA study, these original estimates may have been far too low, with new estimates suggesting that the spill may actually be as high as 30 million gallons. While the contamination was originally discovered in 1978, the recovery process has been slow, and with only 8.8 million gallons of oil removed so far, it is estimated that an additional 25 years are required to complete the cleanup process. “While the oil companies lag in their cleanup responsibilities, the health and safety of Newtown Creek’s residents hang in the balance,” said Congressman Weiner. “Finally, the public has gotten some answers to its questions about the effects this oil spill is having on our community and local environment. But there is still more to learn, and we will not stop pressing the issue until residents are fully informed of all the health risks and the remediation process has been expedited.” The EPA study is a result of legislation authored and championed by Representatives Velázquez and Weiner in the 2006 Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act. Shortly after Congress authorized the study, the state Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) and ExxonMobil found elevated levels of cancer-causing benzene and potentially explosive methane gas near homes in the community surrounding the site. Despite these findings, ExxonMobil, the company primarily responsible for the Greenpoint spill, has been slow to respond to the contamination, and in March 2007, the company ceased all ground water recovery activities until this past summer. In light of the EPA study, Representatives Velázquez and Weiner will continue to push for renewed cleanup efforts so that Newtown Creek will finally be free of the remnants of this spill.
08.16.2007	NEW YORK – Yesterday, Governor Elliot Spitzer signed into law legislation to increase shelter allowance parity between Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) and private landlords. This important legislation will increase public housing funding by tens of millions of dollars annually once the measures are fully phased in, helping the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) address its budget deficits and improve public housing in the City. “This funding is critical to the success of New York City public housing and this support has been years in the making,” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez said. “I am pleased that this outdated model has finally been eliminated and that this step has been taken to maintain decent, public housing. Today the State has renewed its commitment to affordable housing throughout New York City.” During the fiscal crisis of the 1970’s the NYCHA agreed to a reduced shelter allowance payment—less than half of what is paid to private landlords. Efforts have been made to reduce this disparity, but under current law, NYCHA would have to wait eight to ten years to use the maximum shelter allowance in rent calculations. With yesterday’s signage of NYS Senate Bill 4329/NYS Assembly Bill 7905, this wait will be reduced to only three years, helping to ease the burden on PHAs already strained resources. Given NYCHA’s projected $225 million budget deficit for 2007, this legislation is crucial. “NYCHA had been planning to implement cost cutting measures due to their financial problems which could have compromised the quality of public housing in New York City,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “But this bill will help relieve the strain of unequal payments, helping NYCHA address its budget deficit without reducing the quality of affordable housing.” Last month, Congresswoman Velázquez and other members of the New York City delegation signed a letter urging the adoption of NYS Senate Bill 4329/NYS Assembly Bill 7905, which restores the State’s dedication to public housing. The cost of the shelter allowance is shared between the Federal, State and City governments. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg has agreed to fund the City’s portion of the costs, and under this legislation the state will now meet its share as well. The housing bill will adjust the rent charged for the 27,000 public assistance recipients at NYCHA, generating an additional $26.7 million in revenue in 2008, and 46.7 million in 2010. “I especially want to thank Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, Senate Majority Leader Joe Bruno, Governor Spitzer and all the elected officials and community based organizations for their leadership on this important issue,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “We have achieved a victory for public housing in New York City.”
08.16.2007	NEW YORK – Today Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez announced that she secured $2.6 million in federal funding for area medical centers, environmental projects, revitalization efforts, educational and youth programs. The funding was secured in the FY 2008 appropriations bills, which passed through the House of Representatives in July. “This funding is critical to the success of our community – from educating our youth, and providing after-school care, to improving the local environment and meeting the healthcare needs of our residents,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “By providing this funding, we are investing in the well-being of our neighborhoods, and ensuring that efforts are being made to better the community we live in.” Below is a list of the projects that Congresswoman Velázquez secured funding for: Woodhull Hospital: $230,000 in federal funding was secured for equipment to be used in a hospital based radiologic technology school. Wyckoff Heights Medical Center: $300,000 was provided for the development of a full service family practice medical office targeted for low-income residents in Brooklyn. El Puente: $220,000 was made available for an obesity, diabetes, STDs and HIV/AIDS prevention program aimed at adolescents and their families. The initiative also focuses on education about how to manage environmentally connected diseases, such as asthma. Hudson Raritan Estuary – Gowanus Canal, New York, Environmental Restoration Project: $100,000 was secured to continue the feasibility study for the environmental restoration of Brooklyn’s Gowanus Canal. Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation’s Red Hook Green Roof Project: $250,000 in federal funding was provided for a project aimed at demonstrating the use of green roof design as a cost effective and viable strategy for increasing energy efficiency, reducing heat reflection that contribute to the greenhouse effect. Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy: $50,000 was made available to expand ongoing education and stewardship programs to teach at-risk youth about the waterfront’s history, habitat and ecology. Project for Public Spaces: $250,000 was secured for efforts to preserve and revitalize the Moore Street Market in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Boricua College: $150,000 in federal funding for supporting the renewal of improvements to the North Side campus, which houses a 3,669 square foot gym where intramural athletics are conducted. Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC): $150,000 was secured for the expansion of the council’s Arts in Education program for at-risk youth in public schools throughout Brooklyn. Police Athletic League Miccio Center in Red Hook: $100,000 for youth programming, including recreational activities and educational development services, in partnership with Red Hook Rise. North Brooklyn Development Corporation and Creative Development Center: $100,000 was provided for the center to continue its after-school youth services. Grant Street Settlement: $200,000 was secured to provide two-years of support for the literacy-based multimedia programs of the Community Technology Center and the Computer Clubhouse, which serve 1600 children, youth, adults and families annually. Hispanic Information and Telecommunications Network (HITN): $231,000 in federal funding was secured to fund a pilot initiative to reach Spanish-speaking Americans on financial literacy, small business development, homeownership and credit management issues. Hamilton Madison House: $100,000 for services and equipment for a social services program aimed at helping area adults and senior-citizens. Chinese-American Planning Council: $200,000 was made available to offer counseling, employment training, ESL education, vocational training, and placement assistance for unemployed and/or low-income residents.
08.09.2007	August 9, 2007 Steven C. PrestonAdministratorSmall Business Administration409 Third Street, S.W. Suite 7000Washington D.C., 20416 Dear Administrator Preston: I am writing with urgency regarding the damage that resulted from the tornado that struck portions of Brooklyn yesterday. As a member of Congress representing parts of this borough, I request that you declare these locations a disaster area, according to the authority the agency has pursuant to 13 CFR 123.3, making area businesses eligible for relief from the Small Business Administration (SBA). Under Section 3(k) of the Small Business Act, a “disaster” is defined as a “sudden event, which causes severe economic damage.” As Chair of the House Small Business Committee I am concerned with the damage caused to homeowners and small businesses during yesterday’s storm. This tornado, the first in over 100 years, with winds of over 130 miles per hour, impacted the area along with torrential downpours that also fell in the city. The people of Brooklyn and its small businesses are in need of urgent relief and attention. Therefore, I request that you take the most immediate action in order for agency personnel to reach the impacted area, analyze the adversity level in the community, and declare the affected communities, according to regulations, a disaster area so SBA can make funds available to those small businesses and homeowners that now face economic hardships as a result of this natural disaster. I thank you in advance for your consideration of this urgent matter. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez Chair, House Small Business Committee
07.20.2007	NEW YORK – With the country moving into the fifth year of the conflict in Iraq and Americans, particularly New Yorkers, becoming increasingly frustrated with a war that has no end in sight, new legislation was introduced to end the fighting. Even while the American death toll nears 4,000 – including over 150 from New York – the Bush Administration continues to refuse to listen to calls for a withdrawal. Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) joined with returning veterans, family members and local advocates to introduce The Opt Out of Iraq War Act of 2007, which would put the power to decide in the hands of the American people. “The Administration has shown us that it doesn’t matter what Congress does, how many people come out in opposition, or how many lives this war costs, they will not listen to our calls to bring the troops home,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “That is why I am introducing this legislation, which will give people the power to demonstrate their opposition with the one thing that will force the administration to stop and listen – the tax dollars that are funding this war.” The Opt Out of Iraq War Act of 2007 will give taxpayers the ability to stop paying for military involvement in Iraq. Tax dollars could only be applied in Iraq for the withdrawal of U.S. personnel and infrastructure, and for humanitarian and other non-military assistance to the Iraqis. Without the tax dollars of the American people, the Administration will be unable to pay for the war and will be forced to withdraw. “Our brave servicemen and women have sacrificed too much already for a war that was ill-conceived and poorly managed,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “The best way to support them is to bring them home and if the American people make the choice to stop the funding, we can end this now.” Not only is this war taking a toll on our military resources, but it is draining funding for domestic priorities as well. That is why The Opt Out of Iraq War Act of 2007 will divert tax dollars currently being spent in Iraq into investing in the future of the country. The money will be used to reduce the national debt, finance Head Start, and to create the ‘Children of Iraq War Veterans College Fund,’ which would provide college tuition and support for children of Iraqi veterans who have been wounded or killed. This proposal will give the American people the power to use their tax dollars for priorities at home, rather than on a costly and ineffective war overseas. “Almost $475 billion has been used to fund this war, while the national debt has grown to $8.8 trillion - we need to start using that money to invest in the future of our nation,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “The administration has ignored all our prior attempts and has forced us to take this new tactic. I urge my colleagues to listen to the will of the people, and allow them to stop funding this war.”
07.13.2007	NEW YORK – Last evening, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1851 The Section 8 Housing Voucher Reform Act, which included an amendment introduced by Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.). The measure promotes greater safety for survivors of domestic violence, by providing security against eviction resulting from domestic disturbances, and improved confidentiality for the abused. Domestic violence is a major problem across the country, with 71 family related deaths in New York City alone last year. These provisions will ensure that victims are more secure in their ability to find and maintain housing, while being protected from their abusers. “I am pleased that the House has passed this important measure and that steps will be taken to further protect victims of abuse,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “Domestic violence can consume so many aspects of the lives of a woman and her children – it should not affect her ability to maintain affordable housing as well.” The protections in the amendment will extend to the Housing Innovation Program (HIP) several provisions that were made into law by the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization in 2005. One aspect will prohibit a public housing agency from terminating housing voucher assistance based on incidents of violence. While abuse as cause for eviction may seem surprising, if a woman is being harassed or otherwise victimized, the noise or property damage that may result from such a confrontation could currently be grounds for her removal. In a recent nationwide survey, legal service providers reported 580 documented cases where individuals were evicted due to the violence committed against them – this accounted for approximately 10 percent of all cases surveyed. “Domestic violence should never be grounds for eviction. It makes a difficult situation even harder for the victim and her family, and this amendment will ensure that victims will feel more secure in their housing status,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. Confidentiality protections are also critical to protecting women impacted by domestic violence. Many victims try to move on with their lives, yet are forced to deal with the possibility that their former abuser or stalker is trying to locate them. If certain identifying characteristics are made public - even to a prospective landlord - such as addresses or social security numbers, abusers can potentially use that information to find their victims. These possible disclosures discourage individuals from leaving abusive situations for fear of retribution. With this measure, women will now have the ability to keep a variety of such identifying information private, helping them to make a clean break with past abuse. “These are simple yet important steps to help combat the serious problem of domestic violence within our country,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “These two provisions will help abused women and their families feel more confident in their new lives.”
07.12.2007	NEW YORK – Yesterday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) joined Members of Congress to pass H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. The bill will provide the single largest investment in higher education since the GI bill, which was signed into law in 1944. The legislation allows for significant investments in minority communities, for students and their families “I was proud to cast my vote for the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “We should never allow financial hardship to keep our students from reaching their full potential. This bill will help make higher education more affordable for minority students here in New York, and nationwide. It is a historic step in making higher education accessible for all Americans.” A key provision of the bill guarantees $500 million over five years for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and Tribal Colleges. It also allows for $200 million in grants over the next five years to HSIs. About 173 HSIs, which enroll almost half of all Hispanic college students, would be eligible to receive these grants. HR 2669 would also provide $50 million to establish Centers of Excellence in teacher training at HSIs and other minority-serving institutions, and give priority funding to HSIs that increase the number of low-income students attaining degrees in science, math and technology. “Today’s science and math majors will create the jobs of tomorrow,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. ”This bill ensures that minority students will have a chance to pursue degrees in these vital fields. All of these institutions are the perfect vehicle to support our future scientists and engineers. The success of our Hispanic and African American youth is the future of our City and nation.”
07.10.2007	NEW YORK – Today Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, a senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, gave the following testimony during a Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity field hearing in New York on affordable housing preservation: “It is a fact that New York City is facing a rapidly depleting stock of affordable housing. Over the last few years the City has seen an unprecedented number of affordable units disappear, largely due to the real estate boom that took place and is still taking place. “Today’s hearing on the proposed $1.3 billion purchase of Starrett City presents a clear example of how thousands of affordable housing units can disappear if we don’t take the necessary precautions to protect them. “Currently, one out of every four low-income families in New York City spends over 50 percent of their income on rent, and the vacancy rate for affordable rental housing in the City is at its lowest in a decade. There are approximately 250,000 families in New York City waiting for Section 8 vouchers and public housing assistance, and that list keeps on growing. “Everyone should be entitled to a place they can call home. This is why I introduced legislation this Congress – H.R. 44, the Stabilizing Affordable Housing for the Future Act – that will not only help the situation in Starrett City, but will also provide relief for all of our communities here in New York, and across the nation. “It addresses the need for affordable housing in several ways. This bill creates vehicles to revitalize "distressed" HUD-owned properties, which helps to keep those buildings affordable, and provides support for units undergoing repairs. “It is also meant to give New York City and other governments facing the same affordable housing shortage, the tools they need to preserve these options. By making it easier for local governments to purchase HUD-owned buildings that are slated for foreclosure, we can help preserve affordable housing opportunities for low-income families in the City, and across the nation. This legislation was developed in conjunction with local housing organizations, and will help communities nationwide preserve their city’s stock of affordable housing. “This is something that could help in the effort to save Starrett City. As the largest federally subsidized rental complex in the country with 5,800 units and 14,000 residents in 46 towers, the potential elimination of these units for low and moderate income residents is devastating. “We have an opportunity before us to make sure this community remains inclusive of the families that laid its foundation. The restaurant workers, hotel employees, and small business owners who work so hard everyday to keep these neighborhoods alive and vibrant, deserve to remain in their communities. But the bottom line here is that they can’t do so without having an affordable place to call home. “I know the City Council is working on legislation called “The Save Starrett City Law” aimed at allowing tenants in Starret City and in other Mitchell-Lama buildings to remain here. While this is encouraging, Starrett City presents a smaller picture of a much bigger problem in New York City. The harsh reality is that New York City and other parts of our nation are becoming down right unaffordable for residents. “Preserving affordable housing is not about stopping development of new buildings or the growth of communities, but it is about helping working families in New York, and across the country, to secure a decent, safe place to live in. “I want to thank Chairwoman Water for her leadership and work on the Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Housing and for holding this hearing. The issue of affordable housing is important for residents here in New York City, and for the people throughout our nation, who depend on access to safe, affordable housing.”
06.28.2007	NEW YORK – Today Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, joined with Mayor Bloomberg and other elected officials, in calling on the state legislature to reopen the Gansevoort Pier Marine Transfer Station in an effort to manage the distribution of New York City’s residential and recyclable waste, which has fallen disproportionately in Brooklyn. She sent the following letter to Assemblyman Sheldon Silver last week expressing her support for the reopening of this transfer station: June 28, 2007 The Honorable Sheldon Silver Speaker New York State Assembly LOB 932 Albany, NY 12248 Dear Speaker Silver: As the Representative of New York’s 12th Congressional District, I am writing to express my full support for the reopening of the Gansevoort Pier Marine Transfer Station (MTS) in lower Manhattan. As an advocate of environmental justice, I strongly support equality and fairness in managing the distribution of New York City’s residential and recyclable waste. The reuse of MTSs will serve an important public purpose. As public officials, we have a responsibility to retrofit and utilize them. For far too long, communities throughout my district in Red Hook, Williamsburg, Greenpoint, and families in Queens, the Bronx and East Harlem, have been unjustly and disproportionately burdened with waste transfer stations and dangerous volumes of diesel truck traffic bound for outer borough stations and out of state processing sites to the detriment of their health. Brooklyn has more than 22 land-based waste transfer stations and handles approximately 44 percent of the City’s daily waste. The burden of handling more than 80 percent of the City’s waste and recyclable glass, metal and plastic should not be imposed on a few low-income and working class communities in Brooklyn, Queens, East Harlem, and the Bronx. In 2006, after years of hearings, protests, and legal actions, the City proposed a comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan (SWMP) that established an acceptable, equitable and environmentally sound system for managing the City’s solid waste for the next twenty years. This plan calls for the use of locally accessible MTSs to compact, containerize and export solid waste via waterways and rail instead of by trucks from land based transfer stations. The reopening of the Gansevoort Pier MTS can help ensure a fairer system. No neighborhood or borough should suffer more than its fair share of the City's garbage. My constituents understandably resent the truck traffic and congestion on major thoroughfares due to the disproportionate siting of waste facilities, and each one of these New Yorkers is just as important as any individual in Manhattan. It is of fundamental importance that New York government at all levels recognize this basic equality of all New Yorkers. In Williamsburg/Greenpoint, the community is working to integrate much needed park and recreational space with the municipal waste and sewage treatment facilities at Newtown Creek, and with industry and jobs in East Williamsburg and at Bushwick Inlet. Likewise, I am sure that the Hudson River Park can coexist with a state of the art, green recycling facility at Gansevoort Pier. Also, to its credit, the community of Sunset Park, an environmental justice community, has agreed to absorb both a Marine Transfer Station and a recycling facility under the new plan. If Sunset Park is accepting its fair share, then we can ask the West Village and Chelsea to do the same. As public servants, we are charged with protecting the environmental rights of all New Yorkers, I urge your support of the environmentally responsible and economically sustainable Solid Waste Management Plan before the Assembly. Its goal of reopening the Gansevoort Pier MTS is equitable and a viable improvement on our City’s waste crisis.
06.28.2007	Small Business Committee Bill Included to Support Innovations In the Energy Sector WASHINGTON – Today, Chairwoman Nydia M. Velázquez joined with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and members of the House leadership, to announce the “Energy Independence Day” Package. The initiative will provide incentives for the production and use of clean energy, aid our nations farmers in producing the next generation of America’s fuel, support energy efficient technology, and create the environment for an American energy boom that will create jobs, stimulate the economy and help small businesses. “This package will help ensure that on this Fourth of July we will celebrate not only our nation’s independence, but our future independence from foreign oil and energy inefficient technologies,” said Chairwoman Velázquez. “The innovation and drive necessary for us to succeed lie within our country’s small businesses, which is why it is so important that this package recognizes and supports the progress that small entrepreneurs have made in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable fuels.” Small businesses have been particularly affected by the rising cost of fuel, as any additional expense is more difficult for them to absorb than for larger institutions. According to a survey conducted by the National Small Business Association (NSBA), over 60 percent of small businesses use vehicles on a daily basis, and a majority of those who use vehicles travel more than 50 miles a day. This has forced many entrepreneurs to consider scaling back their daily operations and reducing their staff in an effort to save money. “The rising cost of energy has affected all Americans but it is especially difficult for our nation’s small business owners,” said Chairwoman Velázquez. “Action is needed to help remedy this problem and this legislation is a major step towards finding a solution.” A critical piece of the “Energy Independence Day” Package is H.R. 2389, The Small Energy Efficient Business Act (SEEBA), introduced by Subcommittee Chairman, Congressman Heath Shuler, and approved by the Full House Small Business Committee in May. The bill will provide loans, education and investment to small firms to help them become more energy independent, helping them take advantage of their role as leaders in the search for energy solutions. The bill promotes good energy practices by modifying existing Small Business Administration (SBA) programs to provide more flexible loan terms to small firms that are developing or utilizing energy efficient technologies. It stimulates investment in the production of alternative sources of energy and the development of energy efficient technologies by expanding the Small Business Investment Corporation (SBIC). The SBA will be required to develop a strategy to educate small firms about energy efficiency, and establishes an energy efficiency program for the Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs). Additionally, the Renewable Fuel Capital Investment (RFCI) program will be created, which will help small firms develop renewable energy sources and new technologies. These measures will play a vital role in the reaching the goals of the “Energy Independence Day” Package. “The immediate need for more affordable sources of energy will help breed innovation, and I am confident that with the proper support, the ingenuity of our country’s entrepreneurs will create the next generation of energy efficient technology and alternative fuels,” said Chairwoman Velázquez. “The Small Business Energy Efficiency Act will give the support needed to foster these advances, and is a vital component of the Leadership’s energy package.”
06.26.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Velázquez (D-NY) announced the following earmark requests for FY 2008: Added Value and Friends of Gateway: $100,000 for the Added Value and Friends of Gateway for an Urban Agricultural Project to provide healthier and greener communities. The funding for this project will help Added Value and Friends of Gateway to expand programs that started as a result of a partnership with Cornell Cooperative Extension by exporting plants and trees throughout the district from the Gateway nursery. Lutheran Family Health Center Network: $500,000 for a Women’s Health Radiology Modernization Project. The funding is to expand health services provided by the Lutheran Family Health Center Network. Primarily the funding will increase breast cancer screening and prenatal monographic evaluations for low-income women. Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation: $250,000 for a Green Roof initiative. This project will demonstrate the usefulness of green roof design in buildings as a cost effective way to reduce combined sewer overflow, increase energy efficiency, and reduce heat reflection which contributes to greenhouse effects. Hudson Raritan Estuary - Newtown Creek Environmental Restoration: $500,000 for the US Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a feasibility study for the environmental restoration of the Newtown Creek. Hudson Raritan Estuary - Gowanus Canal, New York, Environmental Restoration Project: $500,000 for the US Army Corps of Engineers to continue the feasibility study for the environmental restoration of the Gowanus Canal and to continue to work with NYC Department of Environmental Protection to restore the Gowanus Canal. San Juan Bay National Estuary-Caño Martin Peña Channel: $350,000 to the US Army Corps of Engineers to complete the General Investigation study for the dredging and restoration of the Caño Martin Peña Channel. The Martín Peña Channel is a critical waterway of the San Juan Bay National Estuary, which has become clogged and silted. The study’s completion is necessary to the creation of a plan that can prevent flooding and further deterioration of water quality and improve the quality of life for thousands of Puerto Ricans. Hispanic Information and Telecommunications Network (HITN): $500,000 to fund a telecommunication pilot initiative on small business development and financial issues for Spanish speaking audiences. The project will provide small business the technical support and advice that is necessary to help them succeed. Project for Public Spaces (PPS): $200,000 to Preserve and Revitalize the Moore Street Market as an Economic Anchor and Social and Cultural Center for Williamsburg. The funding for this project is to help PPS work on a plan to develop, preserve, strengthen and revitalize the Moore Street Market while preserving and enhancing the Market’s role as a social and cultural center, providing economic opportunities for business owners and entrepreneurs. Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation: $200,000 for the Reach Project to provide financial literacy education and technical assistance to residents in Cypress Hills. The project will help residents acquire, build and maintain their assets, including homes, businesses and personal wealth. Chinese-American Planning Council: $200,000 for a workforce and entrepreneur development program. The program will provide counseling, employment training, workforce development, vocational training, placement assistance, and small business and entrepreneur development. St. Ann's Warehouse: $200,000 for St. Ann's Warehouse for projects focusing on economic and business development through its Emerging Artists, Emerging Audiences Initiative. Good Old Lower East Side: $200,000 to continue to develop, administer, and manage economic development programs in the Lower East Side. This funding will allow GOLES to assist low-income job seekers with employment counseling, monthly clinics, and sector based skills training; work with small businesses to organize a local merchants association and connect them to technical assistance; and, organize an Employment Network that will give business owners the opportunity to tap into a pool of qualified candidates who live locally and are seeking employment. North Brooklyn Development Corporation & Creative Development Center: $100,000to continue its after-school youth services and competitive Karate and recreational programs for at-risk youth and adults in Greenpoint. Police Athletic League Miccio Center in Red Hook: $100,000 for at-risk youth programming in partnership with Red Hook Rise. This program’s goal is to improve the quality of life for New York City children through educational, employment, and recreational programs they otherwise would not have. Grand Street Settlement: $200,000 to support a literacy and multimedia based program for at risk-youth, adults, and families. The program aims to serve community residents who have no access to computers or to appropriate technology programs because of their economic limitations, low literacy levels, and/or lack of technological capability. Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC): $200,000 to continue its Arts in Education Program for at-risk youth in public schools. BAC links artists with schools and community based organizations, and provides exhibitions and performance opportunities for participants. Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy: $300,000 to expand ongoing education and stewardship programs to teach at-risk youth about the waterfront's history, habitat, and ecology. Federal Courthouse/Office of Emergency Management Security: $3 million for Federal Courthouse/Office of Emergency Management Security. This funding will be used to study and implement needed security measures for the Courthouse complex, as well as OEM. This project will provide security for both buildings by integrating a single secured perimeter, while allowing public access to the parks. Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment: $150,000 for environmental educational initiatives. The funding is meant to expand the numerous school programs sponsored by the Brooklyn Center. Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center: $420,000 to establish the first onsite hospital-based Radiologic Technology School at Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center. The school will offer a two-year curriculum accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology whose graduates will receive certification. Each year the school will attract local high school graduates and provide exciting career ladders and significant economic opportunity in the science and health fields. Chinese-American Planning Council: $250,000 to offer counseling, vocational training, employment training, ESL education, and placement assistance for unemployed and low income community residents. El Puente: $300,000 for the planning and initial implementation of a Wellness Center for adolescents and their families. In partnership with the Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center, the Wellness Center will focus, primarily, on the prevention of obesity, diabetes, STDs including HIV/AIDS, as well as the control and management of asthma and other environmentally connected diseases. Brooklyn Chinese-American Association (BCA): $300,000 in funding to promote nutritional, recreational, and educational activities at BCA’s Sunset Park Asian Senior Center. Hamilton-Madison House: $200,000 for the improvement and development of social services and equipment for children, families, and the elderly. The funding will support Hamilton-Madison House goal to provide the best services for our most vulnerable populations: children, the elderly, the ill, handicapped, new immigrants, refugees, and the unemployed. The Old Stone House of Brooklyn, Inc.: $50,000 to provide broad access to its education programs for students K-12 at this historical interpretative center on colonial Brooklyn and the Revolutionary War's first battle of the new Republic. Indochina Sino-American Community Center (ISACCC): $300,000 for the Immigrant Literacy, Technology and Employment Project (ILTEP). This project will provide job training to Chinese or Vietnamese speaking residents/workers in Chinatown. St. Vincent’s Chinatown Clinic: $500,000 to help in the expansion of the clinic and services offered at the clinic. The clinic’s current facility is overcrowded and can no longer provide for the healthcare needs of the Chinatown community. The funding requested will assist in the capital project to expand in order to increase the range of services offered at the clinic, and allow physicians and staff to meet the growing demand of residents. Wyckoff Heights Medical Center: $500,000for the development and expansion of its health facility. The construction and development of this facility will allow Wyckoff Heights Medical Center to meet the medical needs of the Brooklyn community and further the Medical Center’s mission. Gouverneur Healthcare Services: $400,000 to help Gouverneur in the development and redesign of its existing nursing facility into a residential setting with resident “neighborhoods”, including homelike kitchens, bathing, dining and recreational areas. Boricua College: $1,000,000 for capital improvements to the North side Campus. Boricua College has been an integral part of the community serving over five hundred students annually, making its facilities available to local public high schools which lack their own facilities. The funding will help Boricua College renovate, improve and maintain its North side campus. Greenpoint Manufacturing Design Center: $1,000,000 to support the restoration of a 370 foot bulkhead, and creation of a new non-profit/retail space that will serve the community along the Newtown Creek waterfront. Common Ground Community: $200,000 to help Common Ground renovate and improve the different low-income buildings it manages in New York City and allow it to continue its work to reduce homelessness in New York. Make the Road by Walking (MRBW): $500,000 to construct a new facility in Brooklyn. The new facility will allow Make the Road by Walking to meet the demand for its services which are presently limited by the lack of space in its current location. The new facility will permit MRBW to increase services, including adult education, job training, after-school literacy, college planning, day care services, computer training, and other essential services for the community.
06.23.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) joined area first and third graders, and their teachers at P.S. 94, the Long Fellow School in Brooklyn, as she introduced The Language Education for Success Act of 2007, a bill aimed at helping English Language Learners (ELL) and students throughout New York City. “The importance of learning the English language, and receiving a good education, cannot be underestimated,” said Congresswoman Velazquez. “It is difficult enough today to learn math and science, let alone if you don’t understand the language that it is being taught to you in. That is why we need to ensure that our school systems are equipped to help these students. My legislation will enable schools to develop a solid program aimed and helping our youth master the English language.” Congresswoman Velázquez visited P.S. 94 today, a school that has a program in place to teach students English and prepare them for advancement. However, a number of schools throughout New York, and the U.S., continue to struggle. In fact, it is estimated that there are over 141,000 English Language Learners (ELLs) in New York City public schools, making it clear that a number of youth in New York City are simply not receiving the guidance they need when it comes to learning the English language. As a result of these barriers, they run the risk of never truly comprehending classroom material, and often become frustrated, increasing the chances that they will drop out of school as they get older. Many times this will prevent these students from ever accessing the training they need to successfully enter the workforce. “We are letting our kids down when they need us most,” said Congresswoman Velazquez. “Once they are out of school and in the workforce, our window of opportunity to teach them English closes. We have a responsibility to ensure that every child is given the best possible chance to succeed in the classroom and in life. The number one way to do this is by recruiting the best and brightest talent to teach our children the English language.” Qualified, trained teachers are critical in enabling ELL students to simultaneously gain proficiency in English and comprehend classroom material to the standards expected of them. The focus must be on recruiting teachers equipped with the specialized training necessary to adequately address the language deficiency issue. Currently, any teacher who teaches in a low-income/Title I school district for 5 years is eligible for up to $5,000 in student loan forgiveness. If those same teachers teach math or science, the amount rises to $17,500. The Language Education for Success Act of 2007 would make ELL teachers eligible for that same amount, attracting more qualified teachers into the field. Additionally, the bill also offers new incentives to excite entering college students about the education profession and language instruction, helping to expand a trained workforce to teach ELL youth. “Our society benefits when every child leaves school prepared for college and the workforce,” said Congresswoman Velazquez. “English Language Learners, are at the mercy of a broken system and are more vulnerable to dropping out. Having committed and well-qualified teachers is key to fully addressing this problem. The Language Education for Success Act of 2007 does just that, and is a major step forward in helping our youth to succeed.” English Language Learners account for 10.3 percent of public school enrollment nationwide, and are concentrated in urban school districts. ELL’s represent an even larger percentage of the overall student population in New York City, making up 13.4 percent of kids, or 141,173 children. The Language Education for Success Act of 2007 addresses the needs of this growing immigrant population, fostering a more efficient education system to promote success.
06.22.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement today following a Thursday meeting with Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Administrator, Elizabeth Duke: “I met yesterday with HRSA Administrator Elizabeth Duke regarding HIV/AIDS patients in Puerto Rico. In a June 20th reply letter to me and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), Ms. Duke pledged that her office will provide on-site technical assistance to the Mayor of San Juan and the Governor of Puerto Rico in administering their Ryan White Program funds. While this is a small step in the right direction, it is clear that more needs to be done to fully address this situation. “People are in need of critical care and medication. One of the purposes of this meeting was to ensure HRSA understands that time is of the essence. Many lives are currently at risk— we must move beyond words and take immediate action. “During our meeting the Administrator made a commitment to provide my office, in the coming weeks, with a short term action agenda to tackle issues raised by the community based organizations in Puerto Rico. I expect that this is the first in a series of dialogues, and involvement of my office, with the HRSA Administrator in which expedited solutions can be put in place to benefit the HIV/AIDS patients in Puerto Rico. “In addition to more aggressive oversight at the federal level, we also need to increase funding for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment in Puerto Rico and for high risk minority communities across the nation. The HIV Emergency Local Partnership Act of 2007 (H.R. 2736), which I introduced last week in the House, would inject an additional 50 million dollars into the Ryan White grant budget to provide comprehensive services to minority populations. It would also lift Medicaid funding restrictions that impair the Puerto Rico’s ability to provide critical health care to patients.” Earlier this month, Congresswomen Velázquez and Hilda L. Solis (D-CA) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) calling for an investigation and report on the state of affairs of treatment for HIV/AIDS patients in Puerto Rico. The request is available online.
06.15.2007	WASHINGTON – Following her request last week to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) for an investigation into the state of treatment for HIV/AIDS patients in Puerto Rico, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today introduced H.R. 2736, the HIV Emergency Local Partnership Act of 2007. The legislation provides comprehensive services to minority residents in New York City, Puerto Rico, and across the nation, who disproportionately suffer from this epidemic. “The growing number of HIV and AIDS cases in Puerto Rico is daunting,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “We cannot tolerate this kind of suffering, particularly when medical advances and educational programs are available, with proven success in decreasing the number of casualties. This is why I have called for a GAO investigation into HRSA’s oversight of treatment services in Puerto Rico. The patients need help immediately, and it is for this reason that I am introducing this bill today.” With 12,000 AIDS patients and an estimated 12,000 more infected but not yet diagnosed, Puerto Rico has the fifth-highest concentration of cases of all the states and territories. Yet the Commonwealth’s Medicaid funding restrictions impairs their ability to provide the health care services that patients need to survive. This deficiency forces the Puerto Rican government to shoulder nearly the entire burden at a time when it cannot meet the growing needs of the population. The HIV Emergency Local Partnership Act of 2007 lifts these restrictions, allowing the federal government to fund the island’s Medicaid budget. “The lack of care in Puerto Rico is unacceptable in any circumstance,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “But it is especially unacceptable if lack of federal funding to treat patients is part of the problem. People’s lives may currently be at risk needlessly as a result of this. We must lift the restrictions on Medicaid funding for patients in Puerto Rico now, before the problem gets further out of control.” The bill also addresses ethnic and racial disparities in rates of infection across the nation by injecting an additional 50 million dollars into the Ryan White grant budget, to provide comprehensive services to minority populations. It is estimated that while African Americans account for only 12 percent of the general population, they make up 50 percent of patients. Similarly, while Latinos make up 14 percent of the population, they make up 19 percent of patients. H.R. 2736 will play a critical role in addressing these issues, ensuring that minority communities have access to the treatment they rely on. “Latinos and African Americans in this country are contracting HIV and AIDS at an alarming rate,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “We must devote the necessary resources to improving the health of communities disproportionately affected by this illness. This bill will increase testing, prevention, and treatment in our community.” The HIV Emergency Local Partnership Act of 2007 is cosponsored by: Luis Fortuño (R-Puerto Rico), Jose Serrano (D-NY), and Hilda Solis (D-CA).
06.08.2007	WASHINGTON – Today, in light of the recent accounts regarding the HIV/AIDS crisis in Puerto Rico, Congresswomen Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Hilda L. Solis (D-CA), submitted the following letter to Comptroller General David M. Walker, calling for a thorough investigation and report of the state of affairs of treatment for HIV/AIDS patients in the Commonwealth. Below is the letter: Dear Ms. Walker: The Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act, as amended by the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006, enables programs aimed at people living with HIV/AIDS who have no private health insurance or other source of health care. Over the past several weeks, our offices have learned through media accounts and meetings with various Community Based Organizations (CBOs) and HIV/AIDS patient advocacy groups in Puerto Rico that there is a lack of services available to these patients due to the mismanagement of vital funds. This reported lack of care seems to be the result of, among other things, the inability of CBOs to acquire equipment, prescription drugs, etc., from suppliers due to the inefficiency in the reimbursement processes of federal funds of one grantee under Title I and the grantee under Title II of the Ryan White Act in Puerto Rico. CBOs and government facilities may not be providing quality, timely, adequate or dignified services. This is unacceptable in any circumstance, but especially if lack of oversight and guidance of how these grantees have used federal funds to treat patients is the problem. People’s lives would have been placed at risk needlessly as a result of this lack of proper federal oversight of federal funds. Title I provides grants, which fund medical and other health support related services, to 51 Eligible Metropolitan Areas (EMAs) across the country which are disproportionately affected by the number of HIV/AIDS cases they have in their respective jurisdictions. Title II provides grants to states and territories to improve the quality, availability, and organization of HIV/AIDS health care and support services. Title II also provides access to medications through the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). The federal agency vested with the duty to manage these federal funds and provide guidance, oversight to grantees is the Human and Health Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). In order to fully understand the actions taken by HRSA to respond to the current situation and to investigate how this situation has been allowed to deteriorate to the present state of affairs, we request that you conduct a study to provide us with answers to the following questions: How many HIV/AIDS persons in Puerto Rico eligible for Ryan White funds assistance are on waiting lists to receive: 1) medications; 2) treatment; 3) health care support services? What are the primary causes for delays in the processing of disbursements of Ryan White federal funds to CBOs in Puerto Rico under Titles I & II? When did HRSA become aware or receive reports of these problems? What were HRSA’s actions, recommendations and oversight plan in response to these reported problems? Given the current apparent crisis in health care services for the Ryan White population in Puerto Rico, what immediate remediate steps is the agency taking to ensure that patients begin receiving the care and drug treatment necessary to treat their condition? Has HRSA considered naming a third party to administer the Title I or II or both programs in Puerto Rico? What recommendations has HRSA provided to current Titles I & II grantees to address the issue of their accounting and disbursement practices of funds to the community based organizations? When where those recommendations promulgated and did the agency offer to provide the technical, economic and resources necessary for grantees to implement recommendations? We would ask that the final Report provide a short term and long term strategy for making sure those HIV/AIDS residents of Puerto Rico get the immediate access to health care services and treatment drugs that keep them alive. The Report should also assess what changes are necessary in HRSA that would facilitate more effective oversight of Ryan White funds. Also, we want to know what corrective or oversight actions the agency took in the past to address misuse or inefficient administration of federal funds by Titles I & II grantees in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, if any, and an explanation of how the situation deteriorated to the present crisis. Given the urgency of the situation and the lives that are at stake, we ask that GAO provide our staff information about the progress of this request. Please contact Maximiliano Trujillo, office of Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, at (202) 225-2361 with any questions about this request.
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON – Late yesterday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) introduced HR 2468, the Ovarian and Cervical Cancer Awareness Act of 2007, to educate women in New York City, and across the nation, on the risks of these deadly diseases and the life-saving screening methods available to them. "Every year, thousands of women lose their battles to ovarian and cervical cancers,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “Frequently, these losses could have been prevented if women, especially low-income women, were properly warned about the dangers of these diseases and the preemptive steps available to stop them." Ovarian and cervical cancers are the two most deadly forms of gynecological cancer. Unlike some other types of cancer, ovarian and cervical cancers are extremely difficult to detect because most of the time symptoms are mild. The National Cancer Institute estimates that there will be 22,430 new Ovarian Cancer cases and 11,150 new Cervical Cancer cases in the US in 2007. In the same year, they estimate that there will be 15,280 deaths as a result of Ovarian Cancer and 3,670 Cervical Cancer deaths. According to the New York State Department of Health, in New York State alone approximately 1,020 women died yearly from ovarian cancer and another 300 from cervical cancer from 2000-2004. “Too many of us have lost friends and loved ones to ovarian and cervical cancers,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “While medical breakthroughs have occurred over the last few decades, they are meaningless if women are not guarded with proper knowledge of these cancers—and this bill is an important step in doing just that.” The Ovarian and Cervical Cancer Awareness Act of 2007 aims to enhance the existing public service announcement campaign to focus more directly on ovarian and cervical cancer screening. Screening looks for cancer before a person has any symptoms, helping to find cancer at an early stage. When cancer is found early, it is easier to treat. By the time symptoms appear, cancer may have begun to spread. This legislation will provide women the knowledge they need to make proper decisions concerning their health through promotion of early detection methods, raising awareness about the importance of frequent consultation with a physician and the importance of screening. Of the four main methods used to screen ovarian and cervical cancer (pelvic exams, ultrasounds, Papsmears and blood tests), Papsmears are part of routine annual gynecological exams. This legislation instructs the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to target low income women who are often the least likely to have access to treatment and to know about screening. “Cancer doesn’t have to be a death sentence,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “We can fight this horrific disease through access to information and increased awareness. Proper education in combination with medical breakthroughs can decrease cancer fatalities so that fewer families have to experience loss. I will continue the fight to do just that.” This is the third in a series of bills introduced by Congresswoman Velazquez’s in an effort to promote the health and awareness of residents throughout New York, including The Community Environmental Equity Act and the The Healthy Foods for Healthy Living Act.
05.09.2007	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Chair of the House Small Business Committee, hosted the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce for their annual trip to Washington, DC to discuss the current legislative agenda, and how it impacts small businesses throughout Brooklyn. “Small businesses are the backbone of New York City’s economy, but they face many challenges, given the current business climate,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “From advocating for small business access to healthcare to supporting comprehensive development initiatives in Brooklyn, the Chamber of Commerce’s leadership has been integral to the ongoing success and economic progress of our neighborhoods, and I look forward to meeting with them every year to ensure our City’s entrepreneurs have the tools they need to succeed.” New York City’s small businesses are vital to the state economy. Entrepreneurs make up most of the employer firms statewide with an estimated total of 1,891,900 businesses, 164,195 of which call Brooklyn home. This year, the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce’s legislative agenda includes the increased cost of healthcare, small business tax issues, and energy costs—all priorities of Chairwoman Velazquez and the House Small Business Committee. “Our partnerships with our legislators are important to the life and growth of our small businesses especially in a place like Brooklyn where more than the majority of businesses are truly small businesses with less than 20 employees” said Mark M. Kessler, Interim President/ Chief Operating Officer of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. “Over the years Congresswoman Velazquez has been, and, to this day remains, an ally to the small business owner. This annual meeting with the Congresswoman gives Brooklyn Chamber Members the faith that we have a champion for small business causes from health insurance to taxation.” During the discussion, the Chairwoman relayed a number of the issues that the House Small Business Committee has been working on since the start of the 110th Congress. Several bills have already passed the House to increase access to affordable capital, reform the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program, and open up the $340 billion federal marketplace to small firms in New York and nationwide. The committee has also conducted a number of hearings on issues of importance to small businesses in Brooklyn. From finding a solution for the rising cost of healthcare, to ensuring small business needs are considered as changes are being made to the patent system and as immigration reform moves through Congress, the House Small Business Committee has been working to ensure that small business concerns are accounted for. “Today's meeting was very productive, allowing Brooklyn businesses to voice their concerns and to relay the needs of the local business community,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez. “Our annual collaborations are invaluable as they allow me an opportunity to work with local leaders to promote small business growth and protect the working families of Brooklyn.” Congresswoman Velázquez has met with members of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce annually for over a decade to discuss economic development and other local issues for Brooklyn businesses.
04.20.2007	WASHINGTON – In recognition of Earth Day, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) today reintroduced the Community Environmental Equity Act, to protect working families in New York City, and across the nation, from being exposed to a disproportionately high concentration of pollution-producers that result in high asthma rates and other illnesses, in their neighborhoods. "No one community should bear the brunt of environmental degradation,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “Yet too many of our neighborhoods - particularly those that house working families– suffer more than their fair share of factories, heavy traffic, and trash dump sites. Residents of these communities have been stricken by high rates of chronic illnesses, such as asthma, heart disease, cancer, and birth defects. This bill empowers communities to fight back." New York has unacceptably high asthma hospitalization rates compared to other states. 1.1 million adults and 370,000 children are affected by this respiratory illness, resulting in over 42,000 hospitalizations due to asthma in New York State during 2004 alone. The NYC Department of Health reports that Hispanic adults have the highest prevalence of current asthma. The Community Environmental Equity Act will protect communities from being disproportionately exposed to an array of contaminants. The legislation empowers all levels of government to measure whether a certain neighborhood is more affected by environmental hazards than other communities. Under the bill, a working group of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issues a report to Congress every two years on the progress of the implementation of this environmental justice legislation. “The explosive rate at which New Yorkers are contracting illnesses caused by polluter companies is quite simply criminal,” said Congresswoman Velazquez. “When asthma becomes a price our children pay for the neighborhood they live in, someone needs to be held accountable, and communities must have the ability to prevent further harm—this legislation is the first step in doing just that.” H.R. 1972 has been enhanced to provide more tools to environmental stewards. To accurately measure consequences of new projects by polluter companies, this bill mandates that the government generate community Health Impact Profiles. These profiles will be developed through community-based organizations and local health centers. This information will assist health policy makers who evaluate the health impact of future growth or redevelopment of existing and perspective companies, to protect high risk areas from increased exposure to specific dangerous substances. “Many of our communities that suffer from the highest asthma rates are also home to the worst sources of pollution. Short term and long term exposure to these pollutants has serious health consequences, including increased asthma attacks, hospitalizations and even premature death,” said Louise Vetter, CEO and President of the American Lung Association of the City of New York. “We applaud Congresswoman Velazquez for her commitment to improving the lung health of all communities and protecting our most vulnerable populations from the dangers of environmental pollutants and poor air quality.” Congresswoman Velázquez’s district encompasses sections of Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens, and is home to the highest number of waste transfer stations in the country. Currently, there are 17 land-based waste transfer stations in Brooklyn, and 23 Toxic Release Inventories. As of 2005, Brooklyn contains 211 EPA Right to Know Facilities, and RADIAC, a hazardous waste storage facility, and six power plants in or near the low-income, minority communities.
04.10.2007	WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.), Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Congressman Jim Ramstad (R-MN), introduced the Housing America’s Workforce Act, to increase access to affordable housing for America’s working families. The Housing America’s Workforce Act provides a tax credit to employers, equal to 50 percent of the cost of housing assistance offered to eligible low- and moderate-income employees. Rental assistance could be used toward security deposits and rental payments, while homeownership assistance could be used for such things as subsidizing down payments, closing costs, or contributions to an employee homeownership savings account. The legislation also treats housing assistance as a nontaxable benefit to ensure employees receive the full value of the housing benefit. In order to help employers that lack the knowledge and expertise needed to undertake an EAH initiative, it will establish a competitive grant program so that nonprofit housing organizations can assist employers. “The number of working families with children paying more than half their income for housing has increased by more than 250% in the last 25 years,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velazquez. “The increasing gap between wages and housing costs has made the prospect of owning a home all but impossible for low- and moderate- income families in New York. The Employee Assisted Housing (EAH) program aims to combat this grim outlook and restore the possibility of adequate, affordable housing for hardworking Americans nationwide.” New York City’s Department of Housing Preservation and Development has established an EAH program to assist employers with these initiatives. In addition, Chambers of Commerce, universities and counties throughout the state are also offering EAH programs. The Housing America’s Workforce Act will enable more businesses to develop EAH programs, increasing access to viable housing opportunities. “Working full-time no longer guarantees the security and comfort of a home. The shortage of workforce housing has emerged as a national crisis with housing costs having far outgrown the rate of inflation in many markets. We need to make sure hard working Americans the opportunity to live in the communities they serve,” said Senator Clinton. The Housing America’s Workforce Act is endorsed locally by the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce and the Portland Housing Center, and nationally by The US Conference of Mayors, The National Housing Conference, The National Association of Counties, National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials, National Association of Home Builders, and the National NeighborWorks Association.
02.27.2007	WASHINGTON –Today, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Congressman Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) were joined by Puerto Rico’s Governor Aníbal Acevedo Vilá, and introduced the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2007, providing the people of Puerto Rico a fair process to help them reach a democratic consensus on the future of the island. “Any proposal regarding the future of Puerto Rico must first come from Puerto Ricans,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. “Self-determination needs to come from the people of the island, to do otherwise would be tampering with their free will.” The continuing debate surrounding the status of Puerto Rico has attracted numerous proposals from members of Congress. While many of these bills are well intentioned, they do not provide the citizens of Puerto Rico with a direct mechanism to be involved in the deliberations of the status process from beginning to end. The Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2007 provides the people of Puerto Rico a democratic process to self determination by encouraging a path of dialogue and consensus. A Constitutional Convention, comprised of delegates elected by the people of Puerto Rico, will adopt a self-determination option, which then must be ratified by the people of Puerto Rico before beingconsidered by Congress. This bill is unlike other legislative initiatives in that it provides a fair process that includes several checks and balances and affords time for debate, negotiation and consensus building in Puerto Rico. It also allows Puerto Ricans who do not reside on the island, but in the United States, to participate in this self determination process. “The bill my colleagues and I are introducing today, with the full support of the Governor of Puerto Rico, encourages a fair, unbiased, comprehensive, democratic process for the people of Puerto Rico,” said Congresswoman Velazquez. “It is for them, not Congress, to determine their status. Congress should not act until Puerto Ricans decide this issue democratically.” The Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2007 is cosponsored by Reps.: Gutierrez, Wicker, Duncan, Rangel, Conyers, Oberstar, Costello, Solis, Sires, Sanford Bishop, Honda, Jackson-Lee, Tom Udall, Meeks, Fattah, DeFazio, Christensen and Faleomavega.
02.20.2007	NEW YORK – Today, Senator Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) and Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) introduced legislation to help resolve the ongoing housing crisis in New York City by increasing funding for public housing. “Funding for our city’s public housing has slowed to a trickle under the Bush administration,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “This has left NYCHA under-funded and thousands of our community’s neediest residents feeling the consequences.” “For too long the Federal and State governments have turned their backs on the tenants of these 21 developments,” said Senator Schumer. “These tenants should not live in fear for their future, which is why the Federal Government should step-in, as it has for NYCHA development across the city, and support affordable housing for our most vulnerable citizens.” Currently, 343 public housing developments operated by New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) are forced to share funds and resources that were originally intended for only 322 units. These 20 units fell through the cracks when financial and regulatory responsibility shifted to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – leaving both NYCHA and thousands of tenants to bear the consequences. Last year alone, NYCHA incurred a nearly $88 million deficit while being forced to make cut-backs of essential staff. At the same time, tenants remain at risk of living in deteriorating conditions while some are also struggling to meet rising rents. By clarifying which public housing developments should be included by HUD when determining how much money a public housing agency receives, The Public Housing Equal Treatment Act of 2007 addresses this issue. Allowing all of NYCHA’s public housing developments to receive direct assistance from the federal government will help to stabilize public housing in New York City by ensuring an equitable amount of money for all 343 developments. The Public Housing Equal Treatment Act of 2007will introduce a steady and dedicated funding stream into the 21 properties currently operating without one, allowing residents to feel safe in their homes, and improving the quality of life for tenants in all of the NYCHA public housing developments. This bill will ensure NYCHA’s community centers that provide job training and elderly/youth programs stay open, vital repairs are completed in a timely manner and that critical public housing is maintained in New York City for the long run. “The bill will allow these 21 developments, which deserve the same funding opportunities as the rest of public housing, to receive approximately $100 million in direct federal aid starting in January 2008 and place them on an equal footing with our other developments,” said NYCHA Chairman Tino Hernandez. “At the same time,the passage of this bill helps NYCHA’s remaining 322 developments, because money will no longer have to be diverted from them to support these unfunded units.
01.25.2007	NEW YORK - Late yesterday, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) introduced the first in a series of legislation aimed at increasing the availability of affordable housing in New York City. H.R. 655, "The Pathway to Preservation Act" will make it easier for local governments to purchase HUD-owned buildings that are slated for foreclosure, preserving affordable housing opportunities for low income families in the City, and across the nation. "Far too many of our residents are finding it virtually impossible to access affordable housing here in New York City," Congresswoman Velázquez said. "Yet, time and time again the Bush administration hinders preservation efforts, in this case by making it more difficult for local governments to purchase HUD properties. That is why this legislation is critical today - it is a step towards restoring the power of local governments in ensuring our families and residents are able to access affordable housing." The number of apartments affordable to households earning about $32,000 a year, or 80 percent of the median household income in the city, has dropped by 205,000 in just three years. This legislation, developed in conjunction with local housing organizations, would clarify housing law to ensure that properties are more accurately appraised, requiring HUD to take into account the cost of repairs and current affordability requirements. Failing to do so dramatically hinders the ability of local governments' and subsequent housing preservation developers' ability to maintain their city's stock of affordable housing. H.R. 655 takes steps that increase affordable housing structures to local governments and, in turn, to their residents. With existing housing exceedingly expensive and limited in New York, it is critical that affordable structures are not allowed to simply slip away. The Pathway to Preservation Act would ensure local governments have the resources available to safeguard residents living in reasonably priced apartments, providing tenants with a sense of security that they will be able to stay put with their families. "In order to ensure our City's residents have access to affordable housing, it is critical that local governments have every opportunity to preserve those properties that are already affordable," Congresswoman Velázquez said. "This is the first of many steps I will take in the 110th Congress to combat our City's growing housing crisis."
01.04.2007	NEW YORK - As Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) was officially sworn in to the 110th Congress today, she introduced a legislative package to address a number of the ongoing concerns that New York City families and small businesses have been faced with over the past several years. These initiatives are aimed at improving the health of residents, expanding access to affordable housing and technology, as well as cleaning up areas throughout the City. "For the past six years, the needs of our families and small businesses have been overlooked by the current administration and Republicans in Congress - as a result, communities have been left behind when it comes to accessing a healthy, quality lifestyle," Congresswoman Velázquez said. "This legislative package is an important step toward improving the well-being and vitality of our residents. From expanding dietary options, to helping low-income communities and cleaning up valuable areas of land throughout our neighborhoods, this will truly make a difference in enhancing the quality of our everyday lives." Ensuring access to a healthy diet: The health of the nation - and New York City - continue to be at risk as more than 60 million people are classified as obese today. With the recent announcement of a ban on artificial trans fat in New York City restaurants, Congresswoman Velázquez has introduced a bill that will further enhance residents' health. She has long recognized the need to ensure that families have ample access to a nourishing diet, such as fresh produce and alternatives that do not contain artificial trans frat. H.R. 45, The Healthy Foods for Healthy Living Act will ensure that a wholesome diet and food alternatives are accessible to residents in all communities. The bill focuses on making healthy food choices available, as well as educating consumers on the importance and benefits of a well-balanced diet. Addressing the affordable housing crisis: Access to a healthy diet is not the only issue New Yorkers are being hit with today as they also find themselves in the midst of an ongoing housing crisis with the availability of affordable options failing to meet tenant demands. It is estimated that 30 million households face housing problems today - and in New York City alone, over half of all renters spend at least 30 percent of their income on housing. To address this issue, Congresswoman Velázquez, the most senior New York Member on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, held a roundtable last month with local housing organization representatives to develop a new legislative agenda to help resolve these concerns. As an outcome of the discussion, Congresswoman Velázquez introduced H.R. 44, The Stabilizing Affordable Housing for the Future Act that aims to preserve affordable housing, and provide residents with the tools they need to do so. The legislation will create vehicles to revitalize "distressed" HUD-owned properties and keep those buildings affordable, as well as provide support for units undergoing repairs. Overall, the bill ensures preservation of current affordability levels, as well as offering protections for renters. Ensuring low-income communities have access to technological advancements: As Congresswoman Velázquez takes steps to address the housing crisis, she has also recognized the need for a sound solution to lessen the gap of the increasing digital divide. Today, a large number of New York City residents continue to lack access to sound technological advancements. In 2005, it was estimated that less than 40 percent of New Yorkers had broadband access, leaving a number of areas highly un-served when it comes to accessing broadband telecommunications, including the Internet. In order to help narrow this ongoing gap, Congresswoman Velázquez introduced legislation, H.R. 42, The Serving Everyone with Reliable, Vital Internet, Communications and Education (SERVICE) Act of 2007, to expand access to telecommunications services, and help families, students and the local workforce access vital information via the Internet. This initiative will make it easier for low income communities to utilize important telecommunication tools, and ensure individuals are better able to communicate with others for social, economic, and educational purposes. Transforming unusable land into safe, vibrant locations for residents: Local communities should not only be able to reap the benefits of the latest technology, but they should also enjoy the use of safe and vibrant locations throughout neighborhoods. The reclaiming and restoration of environmentally damaged areas is key to restoring communities throughout the country. There are an estimated 6,000 Brownfield sites in New York City alone, representing an estimated 3500 acres of unusable land. In order to transform these areas to usable, safe locations, Congresswoman Velázquez introduced H.R. 43, The Brownfields Housing and Community Renewal Development Act, which will provide for the planning and rehabilitation involved in the process. This bill will ensure the areas are reintegrated into their local communities, and can be enjoyed by local residents. Helping small businesses grow: As Chairwoman of the U.S. House Small Business Committee, Congresswoman Velázquez also introduced two bills to help ease the tax burden on entrepreneurs as well as increase investment options. H.R. 46, The Small Business Tax Fairness and Simplification Act of 2007 will take steps to simplify the tax code and provide greater flexibility for small businesses in terms of filing their taxes. In order to keep small firms on a level playing field with their larger counterparts, Chairwoman Velázquez also introduced H.R. 41, The Business Checking Fairness Act of 2007, which would remove a long-standing barrier that has prevented small firms from having greater freedom over their finances. These steps will enable entrepreneurs to invest back into their firms, and expand their enterprises. "These are the types of changes that will result in healthier, more secure lifestyles - and will help provide relief to those residents that need it most," Congresswoman Velázquez said. "This legislative package will ensure that the needs of our families and small businesses are finally being met. Today's initiatives are just the beginning of a renewed commitment to improving the environment for our residents and entrepreneurs."
