03.12.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Congressmen Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Paul Cook (R-CA) led nine other Marines currently serving in the House of Representatives in urging the Trump Administration to stand up for the families of victims of the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine Barracks in Beirut, Lebanon and oppose Iran's request for certiorari at the Supreme Court. The full letter can be found here. It was signed by Reps. Gallego, Cook, Jack Bergman (R-MI), Mike Bost (R-IL), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Mike Gallagher (R-WI), Jared Goldman (D-ME), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Conor Lamb (D-PA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), and Van Taylor (R-TX). Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “As a United States Marine, I am honor bound to remain always faithful to the memory of my 241 brothers and sisters who were killed by terrorists in 1983 in Beirut. The families of the fallen should not be blocked from justice by elaborate attempts to hide funds that they are entitled to following multiple court judgments. I hope and expect that the Administration makes this argument in favor of the Marine families as a friend of the Court.” Rep. Cook released the following statement: “I was still on active duty when Iranian-backed terrorists killed all those brave Marines. Unfortunately, the Iranian government might never receive the punishment they deserve, but we have an opportunity to hold them responsible financially while providing some overdue monetary support to the Marine families. I look forward to seeing this Administration fight for our Marine families and against the Iranian regime.” ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) praised the passage of H.R. 1, the For the People Act, a sweeping package of pro-democracy and anti-corruption reforms. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “For too long, big money special interests and dark money groups have undercut our democracy at the expense of everyone else. They’ve made it almost impossible to pass common-sense legislation that is supported by the American people, including gun violence reform, immigration reform, and action on climate change. “I am proud that the House passed this transformative voting rights, campaign finance, and ethics reform bill that will safeguard every Arizonan’s access to the polls, ensure elected officials work for the people they represent, and empower citizens to take back our democracy.” ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement following reports that President Trump intends to tap funds intended for military pay and pensions to pay for his border wall. “We have long known that President Trump intends to take desperately needed funding for important military facilities to build his wasteful and ineffective border wall that he originally said Mexico would pay for. I am incredibly disturbed by new reports that Trump now also wants to tap funds intended for military pay and pensions. “President Trump wants to take money meant to pay military servicemembers and veterans who have dedicated their lives to this country to use for his monument to hate. He will stop at nothing to fulfill his ill-advised campaign promise, all while putting the health, welfare, and earned benefits of American heroes at risk. “The Senate needs to act immediately on House-passed legislation to stop this destructive power-grab.” ###
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, reintroduced legislation to strengthen the process through which relatives of the President of the United States can obtain security clearances and thus gain access to our government’s most sensitive information. The bill follows a New York Times report that President Trump ordered officials to grant his son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner a top-secret security clearance, overriding concerns and recommendations of U.S. intelligence officials and the White House’s top lawyer. “The American people have a right to know if a senior adviser to our President has been compromised by foreign governments. That’s why we have to fix the broken review process that allowed Jared Kushner to get a top-secret clearance, despite clear concerns from the F.B.I. and C.I.A. No senior White House official should be able to bypass security checks – no matter who they are related to,” Rep. Gallego said. The Security Clearance Family Review Act would require the Office of Government Ethics to review applications submitted by family members of the President to determine whether they have substantial commercial relationships with foreign enterprises or financial institutions and, if so, whether a relative should be ineligible for a security clearance as a consequence of such a relationship. “We need assurances that the President’s family members aren’t vulnerable to foreign financial influence before they are granted access to our government’s most sensitive secrets, and we need to be certain that the President can’t override the better judgement of top intelligence officials. Congress must demand a tough, thorough vetting process before members of the President’s family can get a security clearance,” Rep. Gallego said. “For two years, I’ve been ringing the bell on Jared Kushner’s abuse of the security clearance process and the poison of nepotism in Donald Trump’s White House. One of our greatest American democratic traditions is that family members of the President don’t use his high office to enrich themselves. Unfortunately, we don’t have any meaningful assurances that this White House is upholding this proud tradition.” Rep. Gallego originally introduced the bill in May 2017, after it was revealed in the Wall Street Journal that Jared Kushner had omitted significant financial interests from his government disclosure forms, including a stake in a tech start-up and more than $1 billion in loans. It had earlier been reported that Kushner had neglected to include dozens of contacts with foreign officials in his security clearance application. Yesterday, CNN also reported that President Trump pressured then-chief of staff John Kelly and White House counsel Don McGahn to grant his daughter and senior advisor Ivanka Trump a security clearance against their recommendations. ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), and Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced the Curb Objectionable Redirection of Resources and Unconstitutional Payments to Trump (CORRUPT) Act, legislation that would require a comprehensive accounting of how much Donald Trump and members of his family have profited from the Presidency. Specifically, the bill would require a report on taxpayer expenditures to the Trump Organization and its affiliates in FY ’17 and ‘18, including Trump hotels, as well as an annual report moving forward on appropriated funds and regulatory actions which financially benefit the President, his businesses and those of his close family members. “The American people are fed up with the rampant and unapologetic corruption in the Trump administration,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “Donald Trump and his family are lining their pockets with taxpayer dollars. We introduced the CORRUPT Act because Congress and the American people deserve full transparency about how Trump and his family are profiting from the presidency.” “President Trump has been in violation of the Constitution since he was sworn into office,” said Rep. Ted Lieu. “The Emoluments Clause clearly states that a President can’t profit off of the status of the highest office in the land and yet that hasn’t stopped the Trump family from lining their pockets at taxpayer expense. I’m proud to join my colleagues introducing this bill so that we can finally get to the bottom of Trump’s self-dealing.” “The American people deserve better than an administration that appears to be fore sale to businesses eager to line the President’s pickets,” said Rep. Jayapal. "Trump is using his power for his own gain, but it’s not the job of the American people to support his inane business ventures and Mar-a-Lago visits. The CORRUPT Act ensures something that people across this nation expect and deserve: transparency. It’s past time for the president to be held to that standard.” “Transparency, oversight, and accountability are essential elements to ensure that public servants are not benefitting from their official positions. For more than two years, the American people are left questioning how much President Trump, his family, and the Trump Organization have used the presidency for his own gain,” said Rep. Brenda Lawrence. “The CORRUPT Act would provide the necessary oversight so the American people know just how much the President is using the federal government to increase his wealth at the expense of the American taxpayers.” "Government in democracy is for the common good but government in a dictatorship is a money-making operation for the ruler and his family and friends. Which one are we going to be?" said Rep. Jamie Raskin. "Let's have some transparency in Trump's spending so we can restore some real accountability in our society." To date, millions in taxpayer dollars have found their way into the coffers of the Trump Organization, including through federal employee stays at Trump hotels and space rented by federal agencies at Trump-owned properties. For example: The GAO reported in January 2019 that just 4 of President Trump’s trips to Mar-a-Lago cost taxpayers more than $13 million, not including the salaries of government personnel traveling with him. President Trump has reportedly spent more than 220 days at Trump properties during his presidency – about 29% of his time as President. ProPublica found $16.1 million in political and taxpayer spending at Trump properties as of June 2018. ProPublica also discovered that the Secret Service paid $27,724 at the Trump golf course and resort in Doonbeg, Ireland in March 2017 to support Eric Trump’s travel there for business. Taxpayers paid $100,000 in hotels alone for a Trump brothers business trip in February 2017 for the development of Trump hotels in Uruguay. The government spends money on travel, hotels, and accommodations every time a member of the Trump family travels. USA Today estimated that from January – August 2017, the Secret Service spent $59,585 on golf cart rentals alone as part of the President’s trips to his own golf clubs. Taxpayers paid over $120K every day while Melania lived in Trump Tower in 2017 before moving to the White House. During that same time, $676,635 was spent on Air Force One flights for her to and from the White House and Mar-a-Lago. The State Department spent $15,000 at the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Vancouver for its grand opening in February 2017, and event attended by three of Trump’s children. The lawmakers originally introduced the bill in March 2018. ###
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) announced today that he has been appointed to serve as an Assistant Whip for the 116th Congress. “I’m honored to serve Arizonans and my fellow Democratic Members of Congress as an Assistant Whip,” Rep. Gallego said. “Now that we are in the majority, I believe we have a unique opportunity to advance legislation that will make a real difference for working families. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure all Americans can cast a vote and participate in our democracy, to make sure all children have access to quality education, and to make sure no family has to choose between seeing a doctor or putting a meal on the table.” “I’m pleased that Congressman Gallego will be joining my Whip team as an Assistant Whip for the 116th Congress,” said Majority Whip James E. Clyburn. “Congressman Gallego will play a critical role in my Whip operation, helping us ensure that every voice of the most diverse Caucus ever is heard as we consider legislation to move our country in a positive direction. I look forward to working with Congressman Gallego to ensure that Democrats deliver on their promise to advance an agenda that will have a positive impact on Americans’ everyday lives.” Assistant Whips are responsible for helping the Whip operation get an accurate read on where Members of the Caucus stand on certain pieces of legislation. They work with Members of the Caucus to answer any questions or address any concerns that Members may have with upcoming bills. ###
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in honor of Black History Month: “This month we celebrated and paid tribute to the many accomplishments and contributions that African Americans have made to our great nation during every chapter of American history. “As leaders, entrepreneurs, scientists, teachers, clergy members, artists, athletes, members of our armed services, and everything in between, African Americans have shaped our identity as a nation. They have broken barriers and blazed trails, and their stories continue to inspire each new generation. “We also should take the time to recognize the areas where there is still much work to be done. I’m fighting in Congress to make sure all Americans can cast a vote and participate in our democracy, to make sure all children have access to quality education, and to make sure no family has to choose between seeing a doctor or putting a meal on the table. “I am proud to represent a diverse community in Phoenix, and I am committed to working closely with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus to advance equality, social justice, and opportunity for all Americans.” ###
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) voted today for the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019 (H.R. 8). He is a cosponsor of the bill, which expands background checks to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet, or in classified ads. The legislation includes reasonable exceptions such as giving a gun as a gift to a close family member or loaning a gun for hunting or target shooting. “Background checks save lives and are one of the most effective ways to keep firearms out of the hands of criminals, domestic abusers, and people struggling with mental illness who may harm themselves or others,” Rep. Gallego said. “I am honored to cosponsor and vote for bipartisan legislation that will close glaring loopholes in our background check system while also upholding the rights of law-abiding citizens. Every American has a fundamental right to live free from the threat of gun violence. This is the first major step to reducing gun violence in our country, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress on commonsense plans to make our communities safer.” Nearly 40,000 Americans died last year as a result of gun violence. Since the background check system was created in 1993, over 3.5 million firearm sales have been blocked to violent criminals or other prohibited people. Expanding background checks to cover all sales is widely supported by over 90 percent of the American public and expert research has shown it is the fastest way to help keep communities safer from gun violence. Rep. Ruben Gallego serves on the House Armed Services Committee and is a Marine Corps combat veteran. He is a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, which was established after the tragedy at Sandy Hook. ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s scheduled meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jung Un. “What happens in Korea affects us and the entire world. That is why I’ve spent the last two years trying to ensure that President Trump doesn’t mortgage our national security for the sake of a photo-op with a dangerous adversary in Kim Jong-un,” Rep. Gallego said. “I will always work to preserve the safety of our armed forces and the security of our nation by ensuring the closest of connections between our country and our allies. As ever, a just and prosperous peace remains the goal of the United States and its friends worldwide.” See below for a timeline of Rep. Gallego’s leadership on this issue: August 2017: Rep. Gallego speaks out against Trump’s rhetoric and push for war with North Korea and urges further economic sanctions aimed at countries that continue to trade with North Korea. September 2017: Rep. Gallego and Rep. Ted Lieu write to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis requesting a casualty estimate of a potential conflict with North Korea. November 2017: The Pentagon responds to Reps. Gallego and Lieu advising that a ground invasion would be necessary to rid North Korea of nuclear weapons an that the United States and its allies could expect hundreds of thousands of military and civilian casualties in a war with North Korea. December 2017: Rep. Gallego and Rep. Lieu co-author an op-ed detailing the catastrophic human costs of war with North Korea in, highlighting the incompetence and callousness of Trump’s position and the likely deaths of tens of thousands of soldiers and millions of civilians. January 2018: Rep. Gallego and Sen. Tammy Duckworth visit South Korea and Japan and spend four days meeting with America’s top military leaders and diplomats in the region, with Defense and Foreign Affairs Ministers from Japan and South Korea, with North Korean defectors, human rights activists, and American servicemembers. They also toured the Demilitarized Zone (“DMZ”) on the border with North Korea. January 2018: Rep. Gallego and Sen. Duckworth brief reporters regarding grave concerns about President Trump’s handling of the situation in North Korea following their trip to the region. January 2018: Rep. Gallego and Rep. Lieu co-author an op-ed pushing back on irresponsible pushes by conservative intellectuals to bomb North Korea. May 2018: Rep. Gallego introduces an amendment to the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act that would ensure that U.S. active duty forces in the Republic of Korea will not fall below 22,000 troops without a certification by the Secretary of Defense that any drop below that number is necessary to the national defense and will not significantly undermine allied security in the region. The amendment is approved by unanimous consent and is passed into law. June 2018: Rep. Gallego hosts South Korean Ambassador Cho Yoon-je to discus the tenuous situation on the Korean peninsula and how Congress and the United States can continue to secure the peace through mutual defense with its close South Korean friend and ally. June 2018: Rep. Gallego sends a letter to Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis demanding clarity and basic facts concerning President Trump’s decision to unilaterally cancel military exercises with South Korea. July 2018: Rep. Gallego and Armed Services Committee Democrats write to President Trump demanding details of the Administration’s supposed plan to achieve denuclearization within one year, including whether Trump will consider the imposition of new sanctions or the resumption of military exercises with South Korea following reports that the Kim regime’s nuclear program has continued unabated. July 2018: President Trump signs the FY2019 NDAA into law, including Rep. Gallego’s provision ensuring that active U.S. troop levels in the Republic of Korea remain above 22,000 unless Secretary Mattis certifies that our national security and that of our allies would not be diminished by a reduction in that number. December 2018: Rep. Gallego and Rep. Mike Gallagher introduce the Telecommunications Denial Order Enforcement Act, a bill that would mandate severe penalties on Chinese state-directed companies Huawei and ZTE if they are found to have violated U.S. sanctions, including secondary sanctions relating to China’s support for North Korea. January 2019: Rep. Gallego and Armed Services Committee Democrats request a resumption of military exercises with South Korea to support the links between our countries and to prevent North Korean attempts to take advantage of the Trump Administration’s incompetence and naiveite to drive a wedge between Seoul and Washington. February 2019: Rep. Gallego welcomes Speaker Moon Hae-sang to Congress to meet with fellow Members of the Korea Caucus to discuss measures to continue and deepen the U.S.-South Korea relationship. Rep. Ruben Gallego is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a Marine Corps combat veteran. ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) joined Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) in reintroducing the Higher Education Dream Act of 2019 as a response to discriminatory action states have taken, and some intend to take, to block the attendance of some immigrants to college and university education. This bill would prohibit institutions that receive federal funds from refusing to admit, enroll, or grant in-state tuition benefits to qualified students based on their immigration status. It would also expand federal financial aid opportunities to DREAMers. “I was appalled by the Arizona State Supreme Court decision last year to bar DACA recipients from receiving in-state tuition at colleges and universities in our state,” said Rep. Gallego. “DREAMers are Americans in every way that matters, and undocumented students, including DACA and TPS recipients, shouldn’t be barred from seeking higher education or the in-state tuition and federal financial aid they need to afford it. I’m proud to introduce this bill with Rep. Lewis to open the doors for immigrant students to continue to be a source of strength and vitality for our economy and our nation.” “No human being is illegal,” the author of the bill, Rep. John Lewis says, who introduced this legislation in the last Congress. “Immigration status should not become an excuse to treat people in an inhumane way. We should be making it easier, not harder, for people who have the desire to pursue an education to get one. People who are informed are better participants in any society where they live. They tend to instill the value of education in their children and help create a more enlightened world. I am proud to introduce this bill with my colleague Rep. Gallego as a way to open the doors of opportunity for young immigrant students.” In 1982, the Supreme Court decided in Plyler v. Doe to allow undocumented students to attend public elementary and secondary schools but remained silent on the question of higher education. As a result, there are a patchwork of policies that vary state-by-state, which create a series of hurdles for DREAMers to access higher education. Currently, Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina bar undocumented students from enrolling at public universities. Alabama and South Carolina allow exceptions for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, but Georgia bars DACA recipients from attending the University of Georgia, the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech), and Georgia College. State and university system policies can change suddenly, which results in uncertainty and despair for aspiring students. For example, a 2018 Arizona Supreme Court decision ended DACA students’ eligibility for in-state tuition. Twenty states either prohibit DREAMers from receiving in-state tuition or lack a formal law or policy, and eight others deny in-state tuition to some students. This legislation provides clear standards and hope for those seeking to realize the American Dream. ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON - Hoy, el Representante John Lewis (D-GA) y el Representante Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) introdujeron la Ley de Sueños de Educación Superior de 2019, como una respuesta a la acción discriminatoria de estados que niegan la entrada de algunos inmigrantes a sus instituciones universitarias. Este proyecto de ley prohibiría que las instituciones que reciben fondos federales se nieguen a admitir, inscribir o otorgar beneficios de matrícula estatal a estudiantes calificados que se residen en su estado basado en su estatus migratorio. La propuesta también expandiría las oportunidades de ayuda financiera federal a los DREAMers. “La decisión de la Corte Suprema de Arizona el año pasado de negarle matrícula estatal en las universidades estatales a los beneficiarios de DACA, fue vergonzosa y equivocada,” dijo el Rep. Gallego. “Los soñadores son estadounidenses en todos los sentidos que importan, y los estudiantes indocumentados, incluyendo a los beneficiarios de DACA y TPS, no deben de ser bloqueados de recibir una educación universitaria o la matrícula estatal y ayuda financiera que necesitan para poder pagarla. Estoy orgulloso de introducir esta legislación con el Rep. Lewis que abrirá las puertas de oportunidad para que los estudiantes inmigrantes puedan continuar siendo una fuente de fortaleza y vitalidad para nuestra economía y nuestra nación.” "Ningún ser humano es ilegal", dice el autor del proyecto de ley, el Rep. John Lewis, quien introdujo esta legislación en el último Congreso. “El estatus migratorio de una persona no debe convertirse en una excusa para tratar a las personas de manera inhumana. Deberíamos de hacer más fácil, no más difícil, que personas que tienen el deseo de obtener un grado universitaria tengan el acceso a la educación necesaria. Las personas que son informadas son mejores participantes y ciudadanos de la sociedad en la que viven. Tienden a inculcar el valor de la educación en sus hijos y ayudan a crear un mundo más iluminado. Me enorgullece presentar este proyecto de ley con el representante de Arizona, mi colega Congresista Gallego como una manera de abrir las puertas de oportunidades para los jóvenes inmigrantes.” En 1982, la Corte Suprema decidió en Plyler v. Doe permitir que los estudiantes indocumentados asistieran a escuelas públicas primarias y secundarias, pero guardaron silencio sobre la cuestión de la educación universitaria. Como resultado, las políticas varían de estado a estado, lo que crea una serie de obstáculos para que los DREAMers accedan a la educación universitaria. Ahorita los estudiantes indocumentados en Alabama, Georgia y Carolina del Sur tienen prohibido matricularse en universidades públicas. Alabama y Carolina del Sur permiten excepciones para beneficiarios de Acción Diferida para los Llegados en la Infancia (DACA), pero Georgia prohíbe que los beneficiarios de DACA asistan a la Universidad de Georgia, al Instituto de Tecnología de Georgia (Georgia Tech) y al Georgia College. Las políticas del sistema estatal y universitario pueden cambiar repentinamente, lo que resulta en incertidumbre y desesperación para los aspirantes a una educación universitaria. Por ejemplo, una decisión de la Corte Suprema de Arizona del 2018 terminó con la elegibilidad para matrícula estatal para los estudiantes que son beneficiarios de DACA. Veinte estados prohíben que los DREAMers reciban matrícula estatal o carecen de una ley o política formal, y otros ocho niegan matrícula estatal a algunos estudiantes. Esta legislación proporciona estándares claros y esperanza para aquellos que buscan realizar el Sueño Americano. ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to President Trump’s action to declare a national emergency to build a border wall. “I took an oath to defend the Constitution when I joined the military. I took an oath to defend the Constitution when I became a Member of Congress. As a veteran, an elected representative, and an American citizen, I will continue to honor my oaths and fight unconstitutional power grabs by President Trump to build a useless wall,” said Rep. Gallego. “Trump’s decision to declare a fake national emergency and illegally use taxpayer dollars intended to support our servicemembers is an attack on our nation’s most sacred traditions and institutions. The real national emergency is Donald Trump’s presidency.” Representative Gallego has not only actively opposed a wall on our southern border, but has led the fight over the past two years to prevent President Trump from recklessly redirecting military funds to build it. He has written op-eds, given floor speeches, hosted press conferences, and introduced two amendments – one of which passed the House Armed Services Committee unanimously – to prevent this president from using funds meant for our troops to build a wasteful and unnecessary border wall. See below for a timeline of Rep. Gallego’s leadership on this issue: June 2017: Rep. Gallego introduces an amendment to the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would prohibit Trump from using DOD funds to build the wall. The amendment passed the Armed Services Committee with unanimous consent. July 2017: Rep. Gallego speaks on the House floor condemning Republicans for using a legislative gimmick to allow Trump to take money from our troops to pay for his ridiculous border wall. July 2017: Rep. Gallego hosts a press conference demanding Republicans abandon their plan to sneak border wall funding into the 2018 NDAA. September 2017: Rep. Gallego authors op-ed in Arizona Republic highlighting the myth that a border wall will help improve border security. March 2018: Rep. Gallego speaks out against Trump’s proposal to pay for a border wall using military funds. May 2018: Rep. Gallego reintroduces his amendment to prevent Trump from using NDAA military funds to pay for a wall on the southern border, but it is defeated by Republicans on the Armed Services Committee. ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of William Barr to serve as Attorney General. “I have serious concerns about William Barr’s nomination to serve as Attorney General. His public criticism of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and his defense of the firing of former FBI Director James Comey undermined the credibility of this critical process and should disqualify him from overseeing it. “The American people deserve to know that justice will be pursued and the law will be respected, independent of partisanship. I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject his nomination.” ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) sent a letter to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs requesting an oversight hearing on veteran suicide prevention. The request follows publication of a report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that identified serious issues with the Department of Veteran Affairs’ (VA) suicide prevention media outreach campaign. The GAO reported a drastic drop in suicide prevention outreach, and found the agency lacked metric targets to evaluate the effectiveness of their outreach. “Even though the VA has identified suicide prevention as its highest clinical priority, the VA is failing to do everything it can to save lives and veteran suicide remains at epic levels,” the Congressmen wrote in a letter to Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Mark Takano and Ranking Member Phil Roe. “We appreciate your hard work to address this issue and we respectfully request that you hold an oversight hearing as soon as possible to ensure that the VA is implementing GAO’s recommendations and effectively executing its suicide prevention outreach campaign.” Gallego and O’Halleran also requested to appear at the hearing “to ensure Arizona’s disproportionately at-risk veterans are appropriately represented.” Arizona has the 6th highest veteran suicide rate in the nation, and according to an Arizona State University study, veterans in Arizona are nearly four times more likely to take their own lives than non-veterans. The full letter can be found here. ###
02.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded more than $1.9 million to programs combatting homelessness in Arizona’s 7th district. The awards were granted through HUD’s Continuum of Care (CoC) program, which provides funding for efforts by nonprofit providers and state and local governments to rehouse and provide resources for families experiencing homelessness. The grantees include the Arizona Department of Housing, Chicanos Por La Causa, Maricopa Association of Governments, and UMOM New Day Centers. “I am pleased to announce these grants, which will enable our government and these organizations to provide important services to members of our community who are experiencing homelessness,” said Rep. Gallego. “I want to thank these organizations who are doing critical work to serve some of our most vulnerable neighbors.” ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement in response to the nomination of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior. “David Bernhardt’s nomination represents more of the same when it comes to the Trump Administration’s destructive leadership of the Interior Department. The ‘monument review’ that he helped former Secretary Ryan Zinke orchestrate was a sham that ignored input from the tribes and the American public so they could achieve their ultimate goal of slashing protections for our public lands. “Already, Bernhardt has been involved in decisions that have weakened protections for endangered species and make it easier for oil and gas companies to drill on protected lands. That’s no surprise, considering he is a former lobbyist for the oil and gas industries who will benefit from those dangerous changes. “I and my fellow Democrats on the House Natural Resources Committee will be keeping a close eye on Bernhardt’s confirmation hearing. I urge my Senate colleagues to reject his nomination.” Rep. Ruben Gallego serves on the House Natural Resources Committee, and as Chair of the Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United States. ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representatives Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) introduced a Joint Resolution that would prevent any U.S. suspension of, termination of, or withdrawal from NATO unless and until Congress is consulted and gives its approval for such a move. The resolution is companion legislation to a bipartisan Senate resolution introduced earlier this month and would ensure U.S. leadership in the most effective alliance in world history for the foreseeable future. The legislation comes as Congress seeks to cement investments made in NATO over the last several years and over the alliance’s 70-year history, and as western democracies continue to face an active and serious threat from Russia as it is led by Vladimir Putin. “NATO is and will remain a critical force for deterring Russian attempts to corrupt western democracy and for permanently underwriting U.S. and allied security. There is no more comparable collection of capable, coordinated, and effective nations at preserving the common defense than this alliance. I am pleased to lead my House colleagues in introducing this bipartisan effort to ensure that Congress is an active participant in guaranteeing the security of free peoples on both sides of the Atlantic,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego, of the House Armed Services Committee. “NATO is the most successful military alliance in modern history and plays an invaluable role in protecting U.S. national security and global stability. As Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our NATO allies. This bill reaffirms that Congress will not permit the executive branch to unilaterally withdraw from NATO without the consent of the body – a coequal branch of government. It is more critical now than ever that the Alliance operate from a position of strength and common resolve,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly, of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “NATO has contributed to the peace and prosperity of North America and Europe for 70 years. Just as NATO has stood with us time and time again, we must always stand with them. I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation that reaffirms the role of Congress, as a coequal branch of government, in continuing the strong transatlantic bond that unites our nations,” said Rep. Will Hurd, of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “Congressional oversight in matters related to the suspension, termination, or withdrawal from NATO is an absolute necessity to further establish our strong standing on the world stage. As our Framers intended, Congress must be consulted prior to the Executive Branch before making any decision that has the potential to disrupt the security of the United States and the alliances we hold. I am a strong supporter of NATO, and I’m proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort,” said Rep. Elise Stefanik, of the House Armed Services Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Measures included in the Joint Resolution: Prohibiting the U.S. suspension of, termination of, or withdrawal from NATO without consultation with Congress. Requiring notification to Congress within 48 hours of any Administration’s effort to suspend, terminate, or withdraw from NATO. Requiring an affirmative 2/3 vote in the Senate or Act of Congress to approve any decision to suspend, terminate, or withdraw from NATO. Authorizing Congressional counsel to defend Congress’ rights, powers, and authority as expressed in the above provisions. The full text of the bill can be found here.
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Rep. Deb Haaland (NM-01) re-introduced a bill to restore and expand protections for the Bears Ears National Monument. In 2017, the Trump Administration took drastic, unprecedented steps to illegally shrink the monument, leaving 85% of the land unprotected. The Bears Ears Expansion and Respect for Sovereignty Act would not only protect the original land previously designated by President Obama but also expand Bears Ears to the full 1.9 million acres of land identified by local tribes as containing sacred artifacts and cultural resources. Finally, the legislation would restore tribal consultation by requiring federal land managers to use tribal expertise to manage the monument’s lands and protect over 100,000 archaeological and cultural sites in the area. The bill has more than 70 original cosponsors, and has been endorsed by the Bears Ears Inter-tribal Coalition, Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council, Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, The Wilderness Society, Conservation Lands Foundation, Earthjustice, League of Conservation Voters, National Parks Conservation Association, Grand Canyon Trust, Utah Diné Bikéyah and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) said, “No national treasure is under more threat from the Trump Administration’s effort to sell off priceless public lands to the highest bidder than Bears Ears National Monument. The 1.9 million acres that our legislation would permanently protect include over 100,000 Native American archaeological and sacred sites. I’m proud to lead the fight to permanently safeguard the rich history and culture of the indigenous people who lived in the area for millennia. It is our moral responsibility to hold these lands in trust for future generations.” Rep. Deb Haaland (NM-01) said, “Bears Ears National Monument is a treasure that I’ve seen with my own eyes. Part of the mission of public lands is to protect sacred sites and preserve them for future generations, but under the current boundaries at Bears Ears National Monument those sites are at risk of disappearing forever. We can fulfill the mission of public lands and protect the culture and history of our country by ensuring the monument encompasses those areas.” The Navajo Nation said, “The Navajo Nation appreciates the efforts of Representatives Gallego and Haaland to restore our tribal voices on the Bears Ear landscape and to lend our vision to the land’s management.” The Hopi Tribe said, “The Hopi Tribe appreciates Representatives Gallego and Haaland’s efforts to protect the sacred landscape that is Bears Ears. It is encouraging to see Congress working towards safeguarding our most cherished landscapes instead of dismantling them.” Dan Hartinger, National Monuments Campaign Director for the Wilderness Society said, “We applaud Reps. Gallego and Haaland and the cosponsors of this forward-looking bill to fully protect the Bears Ears region and honor the wishes of the five sovereign tribal nations who fought for years to protect their ancestral lands and sacred sites. These congressional leaders are advancing a vision that reflects the overwhelming public sentiment of millions of Americans – in stark contrast to President Trump’s illegal attempt to eliminate 85 percent of Bears Ears National Monument. It’s time to fully protect these irreplaceable lands and cultural resources for future generations.” Heidi McIntosh, Managing Attorney of the Rocky Mountain Office, Earthjustice, said, “Representatives Gallego and Haaland and their colleagues deserve our thanks for standing up to protect Bears Ears National Monument, a national treasure whose vast beauty and cultural significance embody the spirit and history of the American southwest. Millions of people across the country voiced their support for protecting our national monuments during President Trump’s monuments review, but the administration chose to ignore the letter of the law and the voices of the public to cater to big oil and mining – including uranium mining, which has harmed so many people in this region. The Trump Administration may never listen to the voices of the defenders of our wild places, but public lands champions in Congress can.” Lisa Pike, VP of Environmental Activism, Patagonia, said, “Being able to explore wild places is why Patagonia was founded, and our business now depends on keeping our lands and waters protected. Patagonia applauds Reps. Gallego and Haaland’s leadership and efforts to not only protect Bears Ears National Monument but to expand it to the full 1.9 million acres originally identified by the local tribes. The Trump Administration’s illegal decision to revoke national monument status for 85% of the area protected by the Bears Ears National Monument removed legal protections for many well-known and widely-revered historic, scientific, and cultural areas and betrayed our shared responsibility to protect iconic places for future generations.” ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced he was elected by his peers to serve as Chair of the Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United States on the House Natural Resources Committee for the 116th Congress. The Subcommittee, formerly known as the Subcommittee on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs, is responsible for all matters regarding Native Alaskans, Native Hawaiians, and the 573 federally recognized Native American tribes and their relations with the United States. “As chair of the Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United States, I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to find solutions to the pressing issues facing our American Indian and Alaska Native communities,” Gallego said. “We must work together to improve access to health care, justice, education and sustainable economic growth, to safeguard tribal water rights, and to protect sacred cultural and historical lands. I am committed to continuing our work with Indian Country and with American Indian and Alaska Native peoples throughout the country to achieve these goals while advancing economic self-sufficiency, environmental justice, and tribal sovereignty.” ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement regarding Arizona’s pending approval of the Drought Contingency Plan, part of a larger inter-state effort to manage use of Colorado River water. The Federal Bureau of Reclamation has stated that if the state fails to reach an agreement by January 31, 2019, it will impose its own water management plan on the site. “With the deadline for an agreement looming, I urge Arizona lawmakers to advance the state’s drought contingency implementation plan, which will both meet the needs of our diverse stakeholders and help ensure sustainable access for future generations. Our state’s tribes, municipalities, farmers, environment, and economic future depend on it,” Gallego said. “We can learn from the stakeholder process and build on this bipartisan effort to conserve and protect Arizona’s water supply. I will work with the Governor’s office and stakeholders to ensure the federal government recognizes the importance of this cooperation.” ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego, Congressman Ted W. Lieu, Congressman David Cicilline, Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, and Congresswoman Anna Eshoo announced they are introducing the Restoring the Public Trust Act of 2019. The bill package incorporates a number of pieces of legislation aimed at strengthening ethical standards in the federal government to prevent government corruption and ensure accountability for the American public. Upon introduction, the Members said: “Trump and his administration have made a mockery of government ethics, demonstrating the weak spots in our current laws. He has normalized unethical behavior in a way that was once unthinkable, proving that we need stronger ethics laws. The damage that Trump has done to the public’s confidence in its government won’t be easy to fix but this bill ensures that those gaping holes in our anticorruption and ethics laws are addressed. In doing so, we will course correct our government to ensure it is working for the people, which is a key Democratic priority this Congress. The Restoring the Public Trust Act helps us do the critical work of rebuilding the public’s faith in government.” The Restoring the Public Trust Act is endorsed By: American Oversight; Campaign for Accountability, Common Cause and Public Citizen. The bill will include the following provisions: TITLE I: Draining the Swamp The SWAMP Act: The President must reimburse the Treasury Department for taxpayer dollars spent at properties in which he has a financial stake, like Mar-a-Lago. The SWAMP FLYERS Act: Prohibits the use of federal funds for the official travel of a senior political appointee on a non-commercial, private, or chartered flight unless they certify – under penalty of perjury – that no alternative flight was available. The E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act: Creates a federal criminal penalty for use of public office for private gain, endorsement of products, or aiding family and friends for corrupt purposes. CORRUPT Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Office of Government Ethics a report on the amount expended by that agency to any property owned by the President or his family. RIGGED Act: Makes the federal nepotism laws applicable to the Executive Office of the President. DRAIN the Swamp Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Comptroller General an assessment of any regulatory conflict of interest pertaining to the President and various senior advisors that might arise from an agency’s rule. TITLE II: Rooting Out Conflicts of Interest CLEARANCES Act (COMMONSENSE LEGISLATION ENSURING ACCOUNTABILITY BY REPORTING ACCESS OF NON-CLEARED EMPLOYEES TO SECRETS): The White House must report to Congress when it grants a security clearance in contravention of an unfavorable clearance recommendation, in part to prevent dangerous and heavily indebted individuals from entering the most sensitive positions in government. Blind Trusts: Requires members of the President’s Cabinet and certain senior White House advisors to place stocks, bonds, commodities futures, other forms of securities in a blind trust during their tenure. Preventing domestic emoluments: Prohibits any business interest owned in whole or in part by the President or Vice President, his/her spouse, or immediate family member from doing business with the federal government. Presidential Tax Transparency Act: Requires all candidates for President to release their tax returns for the past three years. No more shadow White House meetings: Require the White House to maintain a publicly accessible website that includes data on visitor logs. TITLE III: Strengthening Our Inspectors General Protecting our inspectors general: Requires notification to Congress of a president’s decision to place an agency inspector general – whose job is to root out waste, fraud, and corruption – on leave or to change their status in any way. Filling empty inspector general positions: Requires the President report to Congress if he or she fails to nominate an Inspector General for a given agency, including a target date for making a formal recommendation. ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement following the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid’s (CMS) decision to implement work requirements for Arizonans who rely on AHCCCS, the state’s Medicaid program: “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s decision to rubber stamp Arizona’s dangerous plan to impose burdensome requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries. As we have seen in other states, implementing this massive new bureaucracy in Arizona will undoubtedly lead to Arizonans losing access to life-saving health care services. This will make it harder for working families to make ends meet and increase health care costs throughout the system. “As a state legislator, I helped lead the push for Medicaid expansion in Arizona. We should be working to expand access to health care for Arizonans in need instead of increasing their financial hardships and limiting their ability to keep themselves and their families healthy.” Last year, Rep. Gallego joined Arizona Reps. Grijalva, O’Halleran, and then-Rep. Sinema in urging CMS to reject these harmful changes to Arizona’s Medicaid program. ###
01.18.2019	“This weekend, we take time to reflect on the life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who dedicated his life to furthering equality and broadening opportunity for all Americans. “Last week marked what would have been the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s 90th birthday, and what should have been a joyful celebration among family and friends. But we know our painful history—at only 39 years old, Dr. King’s life was cut far too short. This day instead serves as a reminder of how recently Dr. King and his contemporaries struggled for civil rights, and how much work is still left to be done. “On this day each year I am struck by just how far we’ve come because of the courage of regular folks who saw injustice and worked, in big and small ways, to correct it. And yet I admit I’m dispirited to see how far we have yet to go to achieve Dr. King’s dream. Here in Arizona, children grow up without equal access to quality education, too many families live paycheck to paycheck, and it would be a mistake to pretend racism and prejudice have been defeated. “'We may have all come on different ships, but we're in the same boat now,’ Dr. King famously cautioned. In Arizona, our futures are linked, and what hurts one hurts us all. I’m grateful to and inspired by those who are working each day toward a brighter future for Arizonans and for all Americans. I am committed to continuing to fight with them to achieve the society that Dr. King and his wife Coretta envisioned – a more just society that celebrates our differences, takes care of those in need, and defends the right of every American to cast a vote and participate in our democracy. “Dr. King’s legacy of service to others and his continuous pursuit of justice continue to inspire generations of Americans. Today, young people are following in Dr. King’s footsteps by launching their own movements for equality and justice. With their leadership, I’m confident that one day we’ll realize Dr. King’s vision together.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) sent a letter to Health and Human Services’ Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) demanding additional information and answers regarding the case of a woman in a persistent vegetative state who recently gave birth at the Hacienda Skilled Nursing Home Facility in Phoenix, Arizona. “Although it is clear that a grave crime occurred in the Hacienda Facility, it is unclear who did it, how the disturbing crime was able to occur, and how many other victims there may be,” they wrote. “There were serious health risks for the mother and child associated with this incident, and we remain very concerned with the health and safety of the rest of the Hacienda Facility’s residents.” Under the Social Security Act, CMS has the responsibility to work with state survey agencies to survey and certify that nursing home providers are meeting federal Medicare and Medicaid requirements of participation, including responsibility for the safety of residents. The Congressmen inquire about whether the incident was properly reported, as well as efforts conducted to investigate the incident and immediately implement additional resident safety and security measures. They also request information regarding staff screening and training and measures to hold the Hacienda Facility accountable for any confirmed wrongdoing or negligence. The signed letter can be found here. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced he will cosponsor H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019. The bill was sponsored by Gun Violence Prevention Task Force Chairman Mike Thompson (CA-05). Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “Since the background check system was established in 1998, the FBI has denied more than 1.3 million illegal firearm purchases, but glaring loopholes at gun shows and over the internet still exist. That is why I am proud to cosponsor bi-partisan legislation to establish a universal background check system to help prevent felons, the severely mentally ill, and criminals from purchasing dangerous weapons. “I firmly believe that we can continue to come together and take commonsense steps like this to help prevent firearms from falling into the hands of dangerous individuals while also protecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans. For too long, the cost of inaction in Congress has been borne by thousands of mourning families. Americans have a fundamental right to live free from the threat of gun violence in their communities, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to address this public health crisis.” Bill text is available here. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego joined the new House Democratic majority to introduce H.R.1, the For the People Act, a sweeping package of pro-democracy and anti-corruption reforms. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “I am proud that my first action as a Member of the 116th Congress is to cosponsor legislation that will ensure that our voting rights and campaign finance systems reflect our nation’s democratic values. As we have seen in Arizona and across the country, the fundamental right to cast a ballot is under attack and too often big money special interests drown out the voices of hard working Americans. “This transformative voting rights, campaign finance, and ethics reform legislation will help safeguard every Arizonan’s access to the polls and ensure elected officials work for the people they represent. “I urge Congress to quickly pass this legislation that will empower citizens to take back their democracy so we can come together and solve the problems that the American people care about most, like increasing access to quality, affordable health care, promoting job creation and economic development, and reforming our broken immigration system.” More information on H.R. 1 can be found here. ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representatives Mike Gallagher (R-WI) and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) introduced the bipartisan Telecommunications Denial Order Enforcement Act (H.R. 7255) to direct the President to impose denial orders banning the export of U.S. parts and components to Chinese telecommunications companies that are in violation of U.S. export control or sanctions laws. The legislation follows news that Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer, was arrested in Canada at the request of U.S. prosecutors on charges of violating U.S. sanctions. Click here for text of the bill. “Chinese telecommunications firms like Huawei represent a growing threat to American national security. As state-directed enterprises, they ultimately report to the Chinese Communist Party and will be employed where and whenever possible to undermine American interests and those of our allies. This bipartisan legislation sets a simple standard: if a Chinese telecommunications firm is found to have violated U.S. sanctions moving forward, it will be subject to the same severe punishment originally imposed on ZTE,” said Rep. Gallagher. “Huawei and ZTE’s every action is dictated by the Chinese Communist Party. For years, they have conducted complex and systematic attacks on U.S. telecommunications, compromising the information security of our government, our allies, and private companies around the world. Meng Wanzhou’s recent arrest and the resulting outrage in Beijing shows how Chinese oligarchs think that laws are for the little people. This bill is designed to ensure that if Chinese government officials choose to use the companies they operate as weapons against the United States or the world’s rules based system, there will be severe consequences for those choices,” said Rep. Gallego. Measures included in the Telecommunications Denial Order Enforcement Act include: Establishing that it is U.S. policy to enforce denial orders banning the export of U.S. parts and components to Chinese telecommunications companies that have violated U.S. export control laws or sanctions. Directing the President to impose the same strict penalties originally faced by ZTE on any Chinese telecommunications firm found to be in violation of U.S. export control laws or sanctions. Ensuring that penalties for violating U.S. export control laws or sanctions are not withdrawn until a pattern of compliance and cooperation over the course of a year proves that policies surrounding systematic lawbreaking by Chinese telecommunications firms have been changed. Prohibiting any executive agency official from modifying any penalty imposed on Chinese telecommunications companies, their agents, or affiliates until the President certifies that the company has not violated US laws for one year and is cooperating fully with U.S. investigations. Highlighting the Congressional role in overseeing Executive Branch export control and sanctions determinations regarding Chinese telecommunications companies. ###
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), ranking member of the House Natural Resources Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee, and Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), chair of the subcommittee, led a bipartisan letter to the Director of the Congressional Research Service requesting immediate appointment of a Native American Affairs expert. 29 Members of Congress signed on to the request. “It is critical that Members of Congress have access to readily available experts who can monitor legislative developments and quickly provide information and analysis on the unique challenges and opportunities of American Indian and Alaska Native peoples,” the group wrote. The Library of Congress currently employs around 600 policy experts, attorneys, librarians and support personnel who specialize in various disciplines, but none in the well-established field of Federal Indian law and policy. “Tribal Affairs expertise is vital for enabling Members to understand and assess the complex dynamics shaping the unique relationship between the federal government and Indian tribes and make informed policy decisions,” the letter said. The full letter can be found here. ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) led a group of veterans serving in Congress in sending a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert Wilkie, calling for full repayment of benefits owed to veterans under the Forever GI Bill. The letter follows troubling reports that Department of Veterans Affairs officials do not intend to reimburse veterans for acknowledged underpayment of benefits required by law. The lawmakers expressed concern about the ongoing and persistent delays and continued uncertainty experienced by affected veterans and their families. “As veterans ourselves, these reports are deeply dismaying to us, and we urge you to work toward a swift solution that will not further jeopardize the educational pursuits, housing, or financial security of veterans and their families,” the group wrote. “Our nation’s veterans have served our country with honor, often making incredible sacrifices to do so. It is imperative that we also honor our promises to them in return.” The group also expressed concern over second order losses suffered by the affected veterans and their families, including emotional stress, underserved interest charges and overdraft fees, and educational and professional setbacks. The full letter can be found here. The letter was signed by Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Chris Stewart (R-UT), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Don Young (R-AK), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA). ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Today we mourn the passing and honor the legacy of an Arizona legend, Congressman Ed Pastor. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Verma, his daughters, Yvonne and Laura, his sister Eleanor, and the rest of his family during this difficult time. “Congressman Pastor was a trailblazer who dedicated his life to fighting for working families. He represented Arizona’s 7th district with distinction for 12 terms, during which he earned a reputation as a tireless advocate for the people of our great State. “Congressman Pastor dedicated his career to protecting the civil rights of every American and making the American Dream accessible to everyone, including the most vulnerable in our society. His legacy will live on in the transportation projects he championed, the legislation he authored, the working families he helped, and a generation he inspired.” ###
11.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) wrote a letter to Arizona Governor Doug Ducey calling for an immediate and thorough investigation into whistleblower reports that Arizona State Parks and Trails Director Sue Black recklessly disregarded procedures designed to minimize damage to lands identified as containing protected cultural and historical sites. The Congressmen also encouraged Gov. Ducey to request Black’s immediate resignation so as to avoid further damage to Arizona and Native American antiquities. The full letter can be found here. “Director Black’s indifference to indigenous rights and history-preserving laws has no place in our State’s government,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego, ranking member of the House Natural Resources Committee’s Subcommittee on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs. “We cannot allow state officials to jeopardize our shared Native American and Arizonan history.” “The allegations of systemic disregard by Arizona State Parks leadership for state and federal laws that govern and protect our most sensitive and treasured lands are concerning for all Arizonans,” said Rep. Tom O’Halleran. “Retaliation and abuse of power have no place in any public office, and I join Ranking Member Gallego in urging Governor Ducey to conduct a robust investigation into all allegations. Our appointed officials are entrusted by the public to uphold laws, not skirt them at the behest of private special interests.” “On behalf of the Member Tribes of the Inter Tribal Association of Arizona, we are concerned that sacred and protected sites may have been disturbed. We are alarmed at the information that is being brought forward and await responses from authorities in the State of Arizona and the affected Tribes as to how this will be investigated and handled according to the law. As the indigenous people of Arizona, cultural protection is at the forefront of our concerns. We stand ready to assist as needed, but we ask that state authorities take action immediately to investigate the state agencies that are involved and to find a pathway toward preventing any possible wrongdoings from reoccurring in the future. ###
10.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Danny Davis (D-IL) led a letter signed by 17 of their colleagues to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) expressing concern over the Trump Administration’s widespread issuance of waivers to the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). With transportation emissions representing the bulk of U.S. greenhouse emissions, the decision to flout RFS standards could have a devastating impact on our climate and public health outcomes and result in higher prices for consumers at the gas pump. “With the technology for cleaner, safer, and more economical fuels available, there is simply no reason not to continue our progress and commitment to renewable fuels,” said Rep. Gallego. “The Trump administration’s decision to abandon RFS goals has already set back our progress by 5 years. We are urging the EPA to reverse this harmful decision.” The signed letter can be found here. ###
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and 47 House Democrats signed a public comment letter opposing the Trump administration’s proposed rollback of protections for the Tongass National Forest in southeast Alaska. The Trump administration is considering exempting millions of acres of public lands from protections known as the “Roadless Rule,” which restricts road construction, logging, and other costly and environmentally-damaging development in old-growth forests and other protected areas. The Roadless Rule helps preserve these places, in Alaska and dozens of other states, while still providing significant management flexibility for activities including mechanized recreation, connections between communities, hydropower development, mining access roads, and fire suppression and public safety. At its inception, the Roadless Rule received public comment from roughly 1.6 million people, with 95% voicing support for strong roadless area protections – representing the most robust public engagement in the history of federal rulemaking at the time. But the rollback has been driven by an artificial timeline focused on undermining existing protections, rather than listening to the public’s concerns. In their letter, the members push for additional opportunities for the public to weigh in, both in in-person meetings as well as through an extended comment period. The signed letter can be found here. “As one of the largest intact temperate rainforests in the world, the Tongass National Forest is a truly unique ecosystem that has long been home to many, including Alaska Native communities and countless animal species,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego, who serves on the House Natural Resources Committee and as Ranking Member of the Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee. “The Trump Administration’s reckless effort to roll back conservation protections for this national treasure with limited public input puts these lands and local sustainable industry at risk.” Numerous environmental groups praised the letter, including the Alaska Wilderness League, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, Environment America, Natural Resources Defense Council, Sierra Club, Sitka Conservation Society, Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, and The Wilderness Society. “We applaud Representative Gallego (R-AZ) and his House colleagues for recognizing this Tongass roadless rulemaking process for what it is: a play by the State of Alaska to jumpstart a dying timber industry at the expense of local, sustainable businesses and federal taxpayers,” said Leah Donahey, legislative director at Alaska Wilderness League. “The Tongass is the only national forest in America where we still clear-cut irreplaceable old-growth forest. We should be preserving this valuable treasure, not chopping it down and shipping the logs overseas.” “The Roadless Rule is a critical conservation tool that protects some of America’s most valuable and ecologically sensitive wildlands," said Sierra Club Federal Policy Associate Jordan Giaconia. "This effort to undermine environmental safeguards for Alaska’s national forests threatens these extraordinary places and opens the door to even broader attacks on public lands nationwide." “This administration keeps dangling short-sighted, anti-conservation proposals before us, hoping that Americans will bite or won’t notice,” said Emily Fieberling, conservation associate with Environment America. “Truth be told, Americans want to keep wild places wild. Exempting our largest natural forest from the roadless rule pushes entirely in the wrong direction.” “Congressman Gallego’s leadership, along with the support of his colleagues, is critical to ensuring the clean water, wildlife, and recreational values of our public lands are protected for future generations,” said Megan Birzell, Roadless Defense Campaign Manager at The Wilderness Society. “From the more than 9 million acres of roadless area in Tongass National Forest in Alaska to the nearly 1.2 million acres of roadless national forest in Arizona, we can’t afford to roll back the commonsense and widely supported public lands protections provide by the Forest Service’s Roadless Rule.” “The Roadless Rule works, and there’s no defensible reason to roll it back,” said Niel Lawrence, Alaska Director, Nature Program, Natural Resources Defense Council. “With sensible exceptions for roads and logging where appropriate, this conservation measure protects America’s last undisturbed wildlands so that our children and grandchildren may inherit the same unspoiled forests we enjoy today. It benefits salmon fisheries and the region’s booming recreation and tourism sectors. This proposal is one more piece of a broad attack on the public lands that belong to all of us by an administration beholden to polluters and corporate interests.” “The Roadless Rule is of national importance and protects approximately 58.5 million acres of national forest and safeguards habitat and imperiled wildlife,” said Robert Dewey, Vice President for Government Relations, Defenders of Wildlife. “The Trump administration should listen to the 1.6 million people who want to protect roadless habitat and uphold this vital law.” “Our wildest national forests are under attack, and it’s time for all of us to stand together and protect our most beautiful forest lands, the Tongass and Chugach National Forests in Alaska,” said Martin Hayden, Vice President of Policy and Legislation at Earthjustice. “Instead of continuing with a costly and unnecessary taxpayer-financed bailout of industrial logging operations, Secretary Perdue should shut this rollback down and stand with the recreation and fishing industries that account for 35 times the number of jobs timber provides. If he doesn’t, Members of Congress should stand up to protect jobs, wildlife, and lands.” ###
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Today, the Phoenix City Council will consider redirecting Transportation 2050 revenues to pay for street repairs. While we await details of the proposal, I’m alarmed by the possibility that funds for the South-Central Light Rail extension could be diverted for this purpose. “At this late stage in the process, any such move would send the wrong message to the Department of Transportation and to an administration hostile to public transit. It could lead directly to the loss of federal funding, imperiling not just this project, but all light rail extensions in the valley. “Expanding light rail to South-Central Phoenix will transform our city. Residents living along the corridor voted overwhelmingly in favor of bringing light rail to their community and Valley Metro is working hard to mitigate the impact of construction on local businesses. I urge the City Council in the strongest possible terms not to take any action that could kill this critical project.” ###
08.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) introduced a resolution on the role of a free press in a democratic society and urging President Trump to cease attacking the media and excluding journalists asking questions critical of the President. The resolution was introduced in response to President Trump’s continued, ongoing attacks on both individual members of the press corps, as well as the institution of the press as a whole. Those attacks continued yesterday, after President Trump’s daughter Ivanka broke from her father’s remarks. The President responded with a tweet further attacking the media. Later, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders refused to declare that the media were not enemies of the people. The President then further criticized the media at a rally on Thursday night. The full resolution can be found here. ###
08.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) wrote to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Inspector General, requesting an immediate investigation into reports of widespread physical and sexual abuse of migrant children in federal custody. News reports recently described repeated instances of physical and sexual abuse suffered by a six-year-old girl while detained in an immigration detention facility operated by Southwest Key in Glendale, just outside Phoenix, Arizona. Nationally, ProPublica has obtained reports through public records laws of allegations of abuse at 70 of the approximately 100 Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) shelters, revealing “dozens of incidents of unwanted groping and indecent exposure.” Rep. Gallego urged the Inspector General to investigate whether Southwest Key and other contractors that operate these shelters are complying with relevant laws requiring reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, and whether the shelters meet all relevant childcare regulations and standards intended to prevent abuse. He also requested a review of the procedures that HHS follows when sexual abuse is alleged at one of these facilities. The full letter can be found here. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “Earlier today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), after Conference with the Senate. I was pleased and proud to have led several efforts that are in the final bill and should soon become law. “First, I’m proud to have led the effort to ensure that American troops remain in South Korea. My amendment, now on the way to the President’s desk, ensures that active U.S. troop levels in the Republic of Korea remain above 22,000 unless Secretary Mattis certifies that our national security and that of our allies would not be diminished by a reduction in that number. “Additionally, I’m proud to have supported measures in the bill that ensure that we have a strong and credible NATO alliance that keeps Russia at bay, and that we punish Russia for their efforts to undermine our democracy and interfere in our electoral process. I was also proud to lead the fight against the inclusion of riders that would undercut key environmental protections in the Endangered Species Act. “This year’s NDAA also increases the pay of our service members, ensures that disabled veterans have access to military transit on a space-available basis, and calls for the lessons learned from the disastrous raid in Niger to be operationalized to prevent any similar disasters. “There are also measures in this bill that I strongly disagree with. We do not need the additional nuclear weapons that this bill authorizes, especially smaller yield weapons that lower the threshold for use. We need to ensure that Chinese state-controlled companies like Huawei and ZTE are not allowed to infiltrate our communications, critical infrastructure, and other national security hardware; this bill has instead bent to pressure from President Trump to weaken strong provisions that I worked to put into the original House version of the bill. And, while this bill does not fund President Trump’s border wall, neither does it expressly ensure that defense dollars are not wasted in the President’s inhumane and unnecessary war on immigrants, many of whom are future Americans. “However, due in large part to the inclusion of measures that I championed or support, I believe that this bill will increase the capability of our armed forces, strengthen our cooperation with friends and allies, punish and deter enemies like Russia, ensure more and more just compensation for service members and military families, and thereby increase our national security. “I urge the President to sign this year’s NDAA into law.” ###
07.19.2018	Washington, DC – Last night, House Republicans rejected an amendment offered by Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) to end taxpayer subsidization of ranchers, like Cliven Bundy, who engage in illegal grazing. Following President Trump’s pardon of Oregon ranchers Dwight and Steven Hammond, the amendment was an effort to reassert that Western ranchers should be required to meet their legal obligations. Experts and environmentalists fear the pardons could encourage more rule-breaking by both unscrupulous cattle operators and right-wing groups that resent the federal government’s control of western public lands. The full text of Congressman Gallego’s remarks on the House Floor are below. ------------------------------------------------------- Mr. Chairman, Grazing on public lands is a privilege – not a right – and ranchers who use these lands should abide by the law and pay their fair share. On average, federal rates for grazing are more than 90 percent lower than what the private sector charges. In fact, these rates are so low that the government actually loses money administering the grazing program. My amendment would simply reaffirm that grazing permits or leases should not be issued to anyone who refuses to comply with BLM regulations, including the payment of fees. Mr. Chairman, this is a narrow amendment but it speaks to a broader principle. We can’t claim to support the rule of law and then look the other way when ranchers like Cliven Bundy ignore their obligations. Bundy thumbed his nose at the executive and judicial branches of our government, running up over $1 million in unpaid fees. He then put the lives of local and federal officials in danger during a standoff at his Nevada ranch. Later, when two Oregon ranchers named Dwight and Steven Hammond – who also have a history of disregarding grazing regulations – were sent to prison for fires they intentionally set near federal lands, members of the Bundy family led an armed occupation of a National Wildlife Refuge. Mr. Chairman, President Trump recently pardoned the Hammonds, validating these violent tactics and insulting the courageous law enforcement officers who risked their lives during the confrontation in Oregon. With these pardons, Trump has effectively given his blessing to groups that intimated, threatened and occupied local communities. He has legitimized the Bundy’s extreme right-wing movement. Make no mistake – Donald Trump is sending a clear message to militant anti-government organizations: you can break the law, threaten federal employees, and endanger public safety with complete impunity. That’s unacceptable. Mr. Chairman, freeloading on federal lands is unlawful and unfair. Let’s pass my amendment and reaffirm that ranchers need to play by the rules, just like the rest of us. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “President Trump’s meeting today with Vladimir Putin of Russia was an appalling display of self-serving posturing by both men. Americans should expect such behavior from President Putin. They should not expect, however, to be misrepresented and abandoned by the President of the United States. “Today, Americans should have seen their President demand the extradition of Russian military intelligence officers charged last Friday with interfering in the 2016 election. “Americans should have seen their President defend the integrity of our electoral system against the collusion, meddling, and fraud which has already led to dozens of Federal indictments. “Americans should have seen their President condemn President Putin for ordering the poisoning of civilians of our closest ally, the United Kingdom. “Americans should have seen their President call on President Putin to abandon his strongman tactics and assaults on democracy, human rights, and civil liberties. “Americans should have seen their President close ranks with our European allies in NATO, improving our defense-in-depth and alliance network that remains the envy of the world. “In short, Americans should have been represented by a cool-headed, tough, moral public servant at this meeting. I regret very much that they were not. “The American people deserve better from their Commander-in-Chief.” ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), House Committee on Foreign Affairs Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY) and 13 other Democrats wrote to President Trump requesting that his meeting with President Vladimir Putin of Russia be canceled until Russia changes its behavior or his Administration condemns Russia’s destabilizing actions. Their letter comes as the Department of Justice announces the indictment of 12 Russian military intelligence officers involved in hacking the Democratic National Committee (DNC). A proven adversary of the United States, Russia has interfered in the U.S. elections, violated dozens of international norms, and attacked several sovereign nations without cause. In their letter, the Members document the long list of transgressions that Russia has inflicted on democracies, civilians, journalists, and commerce around the world. The Representatives stress that absent a strong voice of condemnation, U.S. adversaries will learn that they can have normal relations with Washington without respecting human rights, civil rights, and the will of free peoples around the world. For that reason, they argue that the upcoming meeting with Vladimir Putin should be canceled. The signed letter can be viewed here. Full text below. --------------------------------------------------------------- July 13, 2018 Dear President Trump: We write to express concern regarding your planned meeting with Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation. It is important to maintain a dialogue with Russia, but we are concerned that President Putin will only offer his now-familiar lies and empty promises. A friendly meeting, especially after needlessly antagonizing our NATO allies, should be reserved for those who have demonstrated a willingness to act in good faith. As Russia continues to act in bad faith and against American interests, this meeting should be canceled. Russia is a threat to the world. Russia disrupts democracy and commerce in the United States and around the globe, lends support to dictators, and attacks nations without provocation. Russia’s most recent egregious actions – confirmed by public reports and the Intelligence Community – include: Interference in the elections and democratic institutions of the United States and our allies; Cyber-attacks to cripple American commerce and steal national security secrets; Support for Iran, including via weapons sales; Illegal occupation of Crimea, sponsorship of the separatist rebellion in eastern Ukraine, and occupation of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia and of Transnistria in Moldova; Sponsorship of an attempted coup in Montenegro; Support for Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad, including his murder of thousands of civilians; Jailing and murder of journalists, whistleblowers, and political opponents; Fielding of weapons in violation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty; and Poisoning of civilians with military-grade nerve agents in the United Kingdom. Meeting with President Putin without an improvement in his behavior or strong U.S. condemnation of Russian malign activity signals that the United States is unwilling or incapable of opposing destructive behavior by rogue states. A friendly meeting shows that our adversaries can have normal relations with Washington without respecting the Geneva Conventions, the Helsinki Accords, or internationally recognized treaties that they have signed, such as the Convention on Chemical Weapons. Addressing these issues is the only way to improve U.S.-Russia relations consistent with U.S. interests. President Putin must understand that interference in democratic institutions via media manipulation, criminal networks and blackmail will be met with severe consequences. Russia must suffer sanctions for its invasion of Georgia, Ukraine, and Moldova, and be punished for attacking Estonia and other NATO allies. Finally, Moscow must be deterred from ignoring agreements that it has signed, including the Minsk Accords, the Framework for Elimination of Syrian Chemical Weapons and the INF Treaty. Many presidents have offered Moscow an olive branch, but Russia has refused it at every opportunity. No patriot desires conflict with Russia, but its failure to work with the United States, our allies, and international institutions – and rather to attack them – renders President Putin unworthy of your time as president of a strong, proud, and principled nation such as ours. Sincerely, ###
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Gallego (D-AZ), Moulton (D-MA), Hannabusa (D-HI), Speier (D-CA), Panetta (D-CA) and Shea-Porter (D-NH) wrote to President Trump requesting details of the Administration’s supposed strategy to achieve the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula within the next year, including whether Trump will consider the imposition of new sanctions or the resumption of military exercises with South Korea following reports that the Kim regime’s nuclear program has continued unabated. President Trump continues to tout his progress in reigning in North Korea, stating today that President Kim Jong-un is “blowing up another [missile] site” and curtailing his propaganda efforts. However, since the Singapore Summit, news reports indicate that the regime has persisted in producing fissile material for nuclear weapons and taken no steps to reduce its current stockpiles. In addition, it was reported yesterday that Kim ignored Secretary Pompeo during his visit this past weekend in favor of a trip to a potato farm. North Korean officials also reportedly failed to turn up today at a meeting today to discuss the repatriation of the remains of American war dead. In their letter, the Members site the comments of a senior administration official that, “There is absolutely unequivocal evidence that [the North Koreans] are trying to deceive the US,” and request “clarification on whether, and under what circumstances, the Administration would consider the resumption of military exercises with South Korea.” The signed letter can be viewed here. Full text below. --------------------------------------------------------------- July 12, 2018 Dear President Trump: Contrary to your assurances following the Singapore summit that there is “no longer a nuclear threat” posed by North Korea, according to news reports, the regime’s nuclear activities appear to have continued unabated. In addition, a senior Administration official informed NBC News that “there is absolutely unequivocal evidence that [the North Koreans] are trying to deceive the US.” This is alarming and calls into question the wisdom of your abrupt decision to end joint military exercises with South Korea. Given these developments, we write to request a briefing on the Administration’s plan, touted in public comments by National Security Advisor John Bolton, to achieve the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula within the next year. For decades, North Korea has made vague pledges to curb its nuclear program while continuing these activities in secret. It appears that this pattern is repeating itself. Indeed, it was reported this week that the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) assesses that the regime has no intention of giving up its nuclear weapons. According to the Washington Post, North Korea sought to deceive your Administration regarding the extent of its capabilities, both before and after the Singapore summit, including by attempting to conceal the existence of an underground uranium enrichment site. In addition, following the talks, the Kim regime has reportedly persisted in producing fissile material for nuclear weapons, taken no steps to reduce its current stockpiles and may be expanding a key missile-manufacturing facility. We request to be apprised of the details of your Administration’s denuclearization plan, including what additional forms of pressure – including the imposition of any new sanctions – you intend to apply; what, if any, inducements you may offer the Kim regime; and how you will seek to monitor compliance with any agreement. Further, in light of North Korea’s non-compliance to date with the commitments it made in Singapore, we seek clarification on whether, and under what circumstances, the Administration would consider the resumption of military exercises with South Korea. While in Congress, Secretary Pompeo repeatedly emphasized the importance of robust Congressional oversight of the Iran nuclear negotiations. We believe the same principle should apply to dealings with North Korea. Please provide a response to this letter within 30 days of transmission. Sincerely, Rep. Gallego Rep. Moulton Rep. Speier Rep. Hanabusa Rep. Panetta Rep. Shea-Porter ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) wrote to the Department of Homeland Security’s Acting Inspector General, requesting an immediate investigation into reports that minor children detained at the U.S. Mexico border were inappropriately held in an office building in Phoenix. According to the Center for Investigative Reporting, that building was not licensed by the Arizona Department of Health Services to provide child care – a possible violation of Arizona state law. In addition, the building apparently has darkened windows, limited toilets and no bedrooms, showers, or outdoor play areas. Rep. Gallego urged the Inspector General to investigate whether any state or local laws or agency policies were violated in holding the children at an ill-equipped office building. He also requested an examination of the standards ICE has established to govern the conditions in which migrant children are held during transport to Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) shelters, and information regarding ICE’s oversight of companies charged with housing and transporting these children. Rep. Gallego also sent a letter to Kevin Marquez, CEO of MVM, Inc., the company that leased the building in question. Rep. Gallego requested additional information from MVM, including the nature of the accommodations, how long the children were held, and whether the company has future plans to house children in this building or at similar locations in the Phoenix area. The signed letters can be found online here and here. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, 11 Democrats on the House Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, led by Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), wrote to Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats requesting a classified report detailing the analysis the Trump Administration used in issuing its revised travel ban covering nationals of five majority Muslim countries, North Korea and Venezuela. President Trump has claimed that the Muslim ban was based on an “extensive” analysis of every country in the world. However, the Administration later admitted the entire document amounts to a mere 16 pages, plus a one-page attachment. While the contents of the report were never revealed to the Supreme Court, it was used to successfully argue for the constitutionality of the policy and cited in the majority opinion. “Given that [the report] reportedly includes an ‘extensive’ analysis of information systems and the security situation in ‘every country in the world,’ we believe that this document is of significant interest to our committees,” the group wrote. “Based on the brevity of this report and President Trump’s unwillingness to share it with the Court, we have serious concerns about the thoroughness of the Administration’s analysis and whether it was used to justify decisions that the President had already made.” The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Director Coats: As members of the House Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, we write to request a classified report detailing the analysis that the Trump Administration undertook before issuing its revised travel ban covering nationals of five majority Muslim countries, North Korea, and Venezuela. While its contents were never revealed to the Supreme Court, the report was used to successfully argue for the constitutionality of this policy and was cited in the majority opinion. Given that it reportedly includes an “extensive” analysis of information systems and the security situation in “every country in the world,” we believe that this document is of significant interest to our committees. In Trump v. Hawaii, the Administration asserted that the President’s travel ban resulted from an extensive analysis conducted by multiple federal agencies and that “entry restrictions” were imposed pursuant to this evaluation. Subsequently, Chief Justice John Roberts cited this study in his majority opinion, noting that the President had acted within his legal authorities “based on his findings—following a worldwide, multi-agency review—that entry of the covered aliens would be detrimental to the national interest.” However, while the Administration claimed that the report in question includes an analysis of over 200 countries, it was later forced to admit that the entire document amounts to a mere 16 pages plus a one-page attachment. Based on the brevity of this report and President Trump’s unwillingness to share it with the Court, we have serious concerns about the thoroughness of the Administration’s analysis and whether it was used to justify decisions that the President had already made. This analysis is clearly relevant to our responsibility to conduct oversight of national security policy. Please provide the report in classified or unclassified form by August 1st. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD) Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA) Rep. Mark Veasey (D-TX) Rep. Don McEachin (D-VA) Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-CA) Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA) Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “Today, the House passed my amendment barring Defense Appropriations from being used to buy goods or services from ZTE Corporation or Huawei Technologies. “ZTE and Huawei are Chinese state-owned companies that have proven themselves to be a chronic and consistent security risk to the Defense Department, high tech industry, and critical infrastructure over the past two decades. It is therefore imperative that U.S. taxpayer dollars not be spent to fund their intelligence gathering and industrial espionage on behalf of the Chinese government. “Broad majorities of Democrats and Republicans in Congress know that China has led a dedicated and long-term campaign to steal American secrets, techniques, and know-how. This amendment is a small step in a larger fight to build a comprehensive strategy to defeat and deter Chinese attacks on our national and economic security. “I look forward to continuing to work to secure DoD’s supply chain and the security of American industry by ensuring that Chinese attacks on both do not go unnoticed or unanswered.” ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Trump v. Hawaii, upholding President Trump’s Muslim ban: “The Supreme Court’s decision to uphold President Trump’s Muslim ban is a disappointing and dangerous outcome that undermines our core values of religious liberty and inclusion. “Trump’s Muslim ban casts a wide net of bigotry across an entire region, endangering people who are fleeing terrorism and fueling the recruitment and propaganda machines of groups like ISIS. It will keep families apart, and does nothing to make our country safer. “The decision to uphold this blatant discrimination will be looked back on by future generations with shame. Congress must work together to stop President Trump from continuing to drive this country further down the path of injustice and intolerance.” ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “The south-central light rail extension will transform our city. “It will connect low-income residents to new jobs and new opportunities. It will make Phoenix a better place to run a business and raise a family. It will help students get to school, seniors get to doctors’ appointments, sports fans get to games and breadwinners get to the office. “That’s why every Phoenician who cares about the health, vitality and growth of our city should be outraged at the latest attempt to kill this critical project. Let’s be clear – at this late stage in the process, any delay could lead to the loss of federal funds. Any pause could block construction for the foreseeable future. “Opponents of the project know this. They don’t care that the project was approved by 75 percent of voters living along the corridor. They don’t want more time to study the situation. They’re not interested in analyzing other options. Their sole objective is to terminate the light rail extension. Period. And they want a vote at the city council for this purpose with little warning and minimal consideration of the long-term consequences. “When we brought light rail to downtown Phoenix, more than a billion dollars in capital investment followed. We can achieve the same kind of economic growth and development in the working class South Phoenix neighborhoods I’m proud to represent in Congress. “Four in ten residents of the south-central light rail corridor live at or below the federal poverty line. More than anything else, this project is about giving them a better shot at the American Dream. For their sake and for Phoenix’s future, the city council must allow the south-central light rail extension to move forward as planned.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “The Trump administration’s policy of dehumanizing children and unnecessarily separating families for political show is nothing short of cruel, and those who have created, implemented, and defended it must be held accountable. “At the very least, the White House and the Department of Homeland Security owe the American people both transparency and honesty. Under the direction of Chief of Staff John Kelly and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, we have received neither. “Secretary Nielsen’s misleading statements and outright lies – including a blanket denial that this family separation policy exists, despite mountains of evidence to the contrary – make her unfit for public office. But the buck stops at the top, and John Kelly is ultimately responsible for the across-the-board mishandling of the crisis that the Trump administration has created at our border. Both Kelly and Nielsen should take responsibility for this catastrophe and resign immediately. “There is no law demanding that children must be separated from their families at the border. If the White House refuses to back down, then the House and Senate GOP must step up and take action to prevent this cruelty. Democrats stand by eager to reverse this deeply misguided and malicious policy.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC –El Congresista Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el elección presidencial de Colombia: "Como primer colombiano-estadounidense en el Congreso, me complace felicitar a Iván Duque por su elección como Presidente de Colombia. "Colombia, nuestro amigo y aliado cercano, se encuentra en una encrucijada histórica y enfrenta serios desafíos. Pero los Estados Unidos sigue comprometido a apoyar al presidente electo Duque y al pueblo colombiano para superarlos, tal como lo hemos hecho durante las últimas dos décadas. "Lo más importante entre estos desafíos es la implementación del histórico acuerdo firmado el año pasado con las FARC, un acuerdo de paz que me enorgullece apoyar. Tengo la esperanza de que la administración de Duque continúe progresando para llevar servicios gubernamentales vitales a las áreas rurales, reintegrar a los excombatientes en la sociedad y buscar justicia para las víctimas del conflicto. También exhorto al nuevo gobierno a tomar medidas para mejorar la protección de los defensores de los derechos humanos en Colombia. "Quiero asegurarle al presidente electo Duque que los miembros del Congreso de ambos partidos están trabajando para mantener los compromisos de ayuda de los Estados Unidos bajo la asociación Peace Colombia. Espero poder darle la bienvenida a Iván Duque a Washington pronto para analizar cómo podemos fortalecer la relación crítica entre nuestros dos países.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “As the first Colombian-American in Congress, I am pleased to congratulate Iván Duque on his election as President of Colombia. “Colombia, our close friend and ally, is at a historic crossroads and faces serious challenges. The United States remains committed to supporting President-Elect Duque and the Colombian people in overcoming them, just as we have for the past two decades. “Foremost among these challenges is implementation of the landmark accord signed last year with the FARC, a peace deal I am proud to support. I am hopeful that Duque’s administration will continue to make progress in bringing vital government services to rural areas, reintegrating former combatants into society, and seeking justice for victims of the conflict. I also urge the new government to take strong steps to enhance protections for human rights defenders in Colombia. "I want to assure President-Elect Duque that Members of Congress from both parties are working to maintain America’s aid commitments under the Peace Colombia partnership. I look forward to welcoming him to Washington very soon to discuss how we can strengthen the critical relationship between our two countries.” ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis demanding clarity and basic facts concerning President Trump’s decision to unilaterally cancel military exercises with South Korea. “It is distressing to hear that the President made a major decision to cancel exercises without consulting South Korea or even, apparently, leadership at the Pentagon,” Rep. Gallego said. “I look forward to learning more about this decision from Secretary Mattis so that we in Congress can take stock of the damage to our reputation, our alliances, and our national security.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy of the letter can be found here. Last month, the House Armed Services Committee approved an amendment to the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act introduced by Rep. Gallego that would commit the United States to a robust military presence in South Korea for the foreseeable future, in order to maintain peace and stability in the reason. In January, Congressman Gallego and Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) traveled to South Korea to meet with United States Forces Korea and South Korean Officials. Rep. Gallego also met yesterday with the South Korean Ambassador to the United States, Cho Yoon-je. -------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Secretary Mattis: Following the meeting that President Trump held with Kim Jong-Un in Singapore yesterday, it was revealed that exercises with South Korea had been canceled by the President. As you know, exercises build readiness, expand interoperability, and promote cooperation with the allies and partners. In the Korean context, they are integral to coordination between the Republic of Korea, U.S. Forces Korea, U.S. Forces Japan, and other allies and partners in the region that would be necessary to the national defense should war break out. It is distressing to hear that the President made a major decision to cancel exercises without consulting South Korea or even, apparently, leadership at the Pentagon. Therefore, in the wake of this decision, please provide clarity to the following questions. Were you or Deputy Secretary Shanahan consulted before the President made the decision to cancel exercises with the Republic of Korea? Do you support the decision to cancel exercises with the Republic of Korea? Under what circumstances will exercises with the Republic of Korea be rescheduled? Was the Minister of Defense, Minister of Foreign Affairs, or President of the Republic of Korea consulted before the decision was made to cancel exercises? Is it still your intention to proactively inform Congress of major changes to defense policy with respect to North Korea, South Korea, and northeast Asian security concerns? I look forward to your reply no later than 30 days following transmission of this letter. Thank you for your service to the Nation. Ruben Gallego Member, House Armed Services Committee ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) issued the following statement following a meeting today with South Korean Ambassador Cho Yoon-je: “The situation right now on the Korean peninsula is tenuous and dangerous. In these interesting times, it’s important to consult with and benefit from the expertise of our closest friends,” said Rep. Gallego. “It was an honor and a privilege to host Ambassador Cho of South Korea this morning. Congress and the American people will continue to stand by our allies.” ###
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Democrats on the House Natural Resources Committee, led by Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) and Darren Soto (D-FL), called on Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) to hold hearings on the Trump administration’s mishandling of the response and recovery effort in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. Their letter comes after the release last week of a Harvard study that determined the storm’s death total was 70 times higher than previously reported. “This staggering loss of American life and the significant variance from officially-reported figures points to the need for further oversight,” the Members wrote. “With hurricane season now upon us, time is of the essence. It is imperative that our country learn from this trying experience and gather any lessons for future planning. Further, it is our responsibility to be honest about the shortcomings of the Trump Administration’s response to this disaster, provide answers to the Puerto Rican people, and take immediate steps to correct any outstanding inadequacies.” The signed letter can be found here. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Dear Chairman Bishop: A Harvard study published last week in the New England Journal of Medicine has raised serious questions about the Puerto Rican government’s reporting of Hurricane Maria-related deaths. Where official estimates suggested that fewer than 70 deaths had occurred, the Harvard findings now indicate a minimum of 4,645 deaths can be attributed to the hurricane and its aftermath. This staggering loss of American life and the significant variance from officially-reported figures points to the need for further oversight. We therefore respectfully request that our Committee conduct a hearing before the August recess to properly evaluate this newly-available information as well as to assess the urgent needs that remain in Puerto Rico. As you know, Hurricane Maria represents the third costliest storm in the United States since 1900 with over $90 billion in damage. As we have recently learned, thousands of Puerto Ricans may have lost their lives because of insufficient access to transportation, electricity, and medical care in the months following the hurricane – a death toll that could have been considerably reduced with a more robust and timely federal response. With hurricane season now upon us, time is of the essence. It is imperative that our country learn from this trying experience and gather any lessons for future planning. Further, it is our responsibility to be honest about the shortcomings of the Trump Administration’s response to this disaster, provide answers to the Puerto Rican people, and take immediate steps to correct any outstanding inadequacies. A timely hearing would contribute to each of these aims. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Rep. Grijalva Rep. Gallego Rep. Velázquez Rep. Soto Rep. Beyer Rep. Huffman Rep. Costa Rep. Gomez Rep. Lowenthal Rep. Napolitano Rep. Barragán Rep. Brown Rep. Tsongas Rep. McEachin ###
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) issued the following statement regarding a new study published in the New England Journal of Medicine by researchers from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health that estimates that at least 4,645 people died in Puerto Rico due to Hurricane Maria. Rep. Gallego serves as the ranking member of the House Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native Affairs. “The results of this study – and the fact that the actual death toll in Puerto Rico is nearly 70 times higher than the federal government is reporting – is shocking and horrifying. “Make no mistake – these lives were lost in no small part due to the Trump administration’s gross negligence. The Trump administration’s failure to deliver timely and sufficient aid to United States citizens in Puerto Rico was an utterly careless decision with deadly consequences. “The Trump administration must be held accountable for their abject failure to protect and assist our fellow Americans. Moving forward, all available resources should be provided to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to ensure that those living there have access to medical supplies, food, clean water and electricity, and no additional lives are put in jeopardy. Congress must also take immediate steps to ensure that the administration does not repeat these tragic errors as the 2018 hurricane season approaches.” ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan requesting hearings to examine President Trump’s use of his unsecured personal cellphone to conduct official government business. The letter raises the possibility that the President’s conversations may have been incepted by hostile governments, potentially exposing important aspects of American diplomatic and military strategy. It also notes the discrepancy between the intense interest among House Republicans in Secretary Clinton’s communications practices and their silence to date on Trump’s irresponsible preference for his personal phone over the White House’s secure communications systems. The three Members of Congress wrote, “Given your comments in 2016 that, ‘Individuals who are ‘extremely careless’ should be denied further access to classified information,’ we are hopeful that you will see fit to conduct the same level of rigorous oversight, including public hearings, to examine the President’s problematic personal cellphone-use.” The full letter can be found here. ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Gallego (D-AZ) and Congressman Moulton (D-MA) filed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would require agencies involved in trade negotiations with China to reveal to Congress any quid pro quo offers made to the Chinese government to ensure that the Trump administration will reduce penalties levied against Chinese phone maker ZTE. FBI Director Christopher Wray and Counterintelligence Director Bill Evanian testified this week that ZTE penetration of the US cellphone market poses a threat to national security. Last month, the company was barred by the Commerce Department from purchasing US components after it emerged that the company had violated sanctions on the transfer of American technology to Iran and North Korea. However, despite clear evidence that ZTE is actively harming US national security, on Sunday, President Trump tweeted his interest in helping ZTE, citing the loss of Chinese jobs. Commerce Secretary Ross is reportedly considering reversing a ban on sales from the company. At the same time, Trump stands to personally benefit from $1 billion in financing reportedly offered this week by the Chinese government and Chinese banks to a resort in Indonesia with which the Trump Organization maintains a business relationship. “The American people deserve to know the truth about Trump’s bizarre about-face on ZTE,” said Gallego. “Why did he abruptly switch from trying to provoke a trade war with China to suddenly worrying about the loss of Chinese jobs? I’m offering this amendment to force the Trump administration to reveal the parameters of any agreement being negotiated behind closed doors. We need to know if the Administration is getting a good deal for America or just for Donald Trump personally.” ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) offered an amendment to the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act that would encourage the military services to implement policies allowing individuals to reenlist even if they admit to having used marijuana. Currently, the Marine Corps categorically prohibits waivers from being granted to enable an individual to rejoin the Corps if that person attests to cannabis-use, even if it occurred while he or she was separated from the military. During debate, Rep. Gallego argued for adoption of a more flexible policy allowing for consideration of a Marine’s individual circumstances. While Rep. Gallego’s amendment did receive bipartisan support, it was struck down by the House Armed Services Committee, 29-32. “At a time when a growing number of states are legalizing marijuana, zero tolerance policies simply don’t make sense,” said Rep. Gallego. “There’s ample evidence that the social and personal consequences are far worse for alcohol use than for marijuana use – but we wouldn’t be able to assemble even one Marine Corps regiment if we excluded everyone who’s ever had a sip of beer or whiskey. “Smoking pot just once shouldn’t prevent a patriotic American from fighting for his country. We need to finally exercise some common sense when it comes to marijuana.” ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, on a party line vote, Republican Members of the House Armed Services Committee voted in unison to block an effort led by Rep. Ruben Gallego to prevent President Trump from implementing his proposal to divert defense resources to pay for a new wall on the southwest border. A similar amendment was approved by HASC last year. “Trump’s border wall is an enormous waste of money that won’t make us any safer, especially at a time when unauthorized border crossings are at historic lows,” said Rep. Gallego. “But even if you think America needs a wall, stealing from our troops isn’t the way to get it funded. It’s critical that we protect funding meant to combat real threats from being diverted to address dangers that exist only the President’s imagination.” Working in tandem, Gallego, Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) were able to force a committee vote on the issue despite Republican procedural efforts to bury the Gallego amendment. Rep. Gallego intends to offer a similar measure when the National Defense Authorization Act moves to the House floor in two weeks. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the House Armed Services Committee approved an amendment to the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act introduced by Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) that would commit the United States to a robust military presence in South Korea for the foreseeable future, in order to maintain peace and stability in the region. Rep. Gallego’s amendment would ensure that U.S. active duty forces in the Republic of Korea will not fall below 22,000 troops without a certification by the Secretary of Defense that any drop below that number is necessary to the national defense and will not significantly undermine allied security in the region. “As President Trump and world events cause greater uncertainty, we need to show our friends and allies that the United States remains a committed partner,” said Rep. Gallego. “I am proud that all of my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee believe that unity between the free peoples of the world is our great advantage as we seek a just and lasting peace in Korea and elsewhere.” ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) issued the following statement about President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran: “President Trump’s reckless decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal is a terrible mistake that will make it easier for Iran to develop nuclear weapons. “Let’s be clear – a nuclear-armed Iran is an international threat. While the JCPOA was not perfect, President Trump has offered no alternative that would provide better security for our nation and the world. “The decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal will isolate America, undermine our credibility with our allies, and make us less safe. “Donald Trump should know that reneging on deals will make it harder for him and future Presidents to negotiate future deals on behalf of the country.” ###
04.17.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) Vice Chair Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) led a discussion among progressive leaders in Congress and national progressive organizations with the goal of developing a coordinated response to the possible firing of Special Counsel Robert Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein by President Trump. Following the FBI raid on the office of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, President Trump appeared to publicly weigh whether to take action against Mueller, saying, "Why don't I just fire Mueller? Well, I think it's a disgrace what's going on. We'll see what happens." At the same time, it was widely reported that Trump was also considering firing Rosenstein in order to bring the Special Counsel investigation to an end. At today’s meeting, the CPC discussed how best to coordinate public protests and action in Congress in the event that the President moves to terminate Mueller’s probe. “As progressives and patriotic Americans, we can’t wait until President Trump fires Robert Mueller to start organizing,” said Rep. Gallego. “Now is the time to lay the groundwork for a nationwide response. If the President ends the investigation and obstructs the course of justice, Democrats in Congress will be depending on an unprecedented grassroots reaction all across the country." ###
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s announcement that he plans to deploy U.S. troops to the southern border: “Once again, President Trump wants to use our brave men and women in uniform to send a divisive political message. Now he intends to employ our Armed Forces to advance his extreme anti-immigrant agenda, while wasting time, resources and money and depleting our military strength in areas of real danger. That’s an insult to our troops and it will harm our military as an institution. Congress must stop this misguided scheme. “The truth is our southwest border has never been more secure. Apprehensions are down significantly and border communities are among the safest in the nation. More importantly, we already have America’s largest law enforcement agency – U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – patrolling our borders and guarding our ports-of-entry. “Our military personnel don’t have the right training or legal authorities for this mission. They shouldn’t be diverted from the very real threats we face around the world to stand guard against dangers that exist only in President Trump’s fevered imagination. “Moreover, border communities don’t want soldiers patrolling their streets. Donald Trump should heed their voices instead of those of the anti-immigrant extremists in his administration, like Stephen Miller, who have never served in uniform and don’t have the best interests of our military or our country at heart.” ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s proposal to pay for his border wall with military funds. Last June, Rep. Gallego introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would have blocked the Trump administration from diverting funds from the defense budget to pay for construction of a new border wall. Though the amendment was approved by the House Armed Services Committee, the GOP stripped the language from the bill before it received a vote on the House floor. Rep. Gallego intends to reintroduce this amendment during this year’s NDAA process. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “As a Marine Corps veteran who fought in Iraq, I saw firsthand the devastation and loss of life that results when our troops are not given the proper equipment to protect themselves and fight our enemies. I’ve also met military families who rely on government-funded services to provide for their families as they scrape to get by. “We can’t allow Donald Trump to steal already-limited resources from our troops to fund a pointless border wall that will serve little other purpose than to satisfy his own fragile ego. This money is meant to help our men and women in uniform – not to fulfill ill-advised campaign promises. “Last year, I introduced an amendment that would have prevented Trump from irresponsibly siphoning our defense funds to pay for a useless wall that will do nothing to keep our nation safe. I plan to reintroduce that amendment this spring when the House Armed Services Committee marks up this year’s defense spending bill. “I hope that Speaker Ryan will have the backbone to allow an up-or-down vote on the House floor, and that my GOP colleagues will have the courage and integrity to put our military families first and say no to Donald Trump.” ###
03.28.2018	PHOENIX, AZ – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced that his nominee to the U.S. Naval Academy, Ethan S. Thompson, was accepted by the prestigious military university and will join as part of the Class of 2022. Ethan is currently a student at Northern Arizona University studying Mechanical Engineering. He is a graduate of Sunnyslope High School, where he was a valued member of the wrestling team. Ethan is active in his community, where he volunteered at Andre House to serve people experiencing homelessness. “I am honored to congratulate Ethan on his acceptance to the U.S. Naval Academy,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “As a veteran, it gives me great pride to nominate some of Arizona’s brightest, most hardworking students to our nation’s service academy. I am confident that Ethan’s strong character and leadership skills will be a valuable asset to our armed forces and his fellow service members.” Each year, Rep. Gallego nominates a limited number of high-achieving students to four of our nation’s service academies – the Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine academies. Once nominations are made, each academy determines who will receive an appointment through a rigorous and competitive application process. Students from the 7th District who are interested in attending a United States Service Academy should contact Rep. Ruben Gallego’s district office at (602) 256-0551. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), a Marine Corps combat veteran of the Iraq War and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that former Bush administration official John Bolton will be tapped to replace General HR McMaster as President Trump’s new National Security Advisor: “John Bolton was a leading architect of the Iraq War – a needless conflict that is still costing American lives and American tax dollars 15 years later. “By any measure, the choice to topple Saddam Hussein was among the very worst foreign policy decisions in modern American history. Bolton must be held accountable for his actions during the critical period in the run up to our invasion. He played an instrumental role in conning Congress and the American people into supporting a war we simply didn’t need to fight. “I am concerned that we are now entering a dangerous new stage of Donald Trump’s presidency – one in which his paranoia and insecurity will be manipulated by advisors like John Bolton to America’s detriment. I fear that with Bolton in the White House another disastrous war with North Korea or Iran or both just became significantly more likely. “For all of these reasons, I urge every Member of Congress who cares about our keeping our brave men and women in uniform out of harm’s way to strenuously oppose his appointment.” ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump fired his Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and announced CIA Director Mike Pompeo as his replacement: “Rex Tillerson was an ineffectual Secretary of State who eviscerated his own department and hobbled himself and our nation’s foreign policy efforts. But it appears he was fired not for that, but rather because he dared to make any attempt whatsoever to stand up against the threat posed by Russia.” “To Donald Trump, even the most modest attempts to stand up for our closest allies and against Russian aggression is a bridge too far. He’d prefer his Cabinet to follow his lead and kowtow to Putin. “The culture of chaos within the Trump administration and the continuous replacement of top officials is undermining American foreign policy and America’s image abroad. This needs to stop. The State Department and the American people deserve better.” ###
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and Brendan Boyle (D-PA) will introduce the Curb Objectionable Redirection of Resources and Unconstitutional Payments to Trump (CORRUPT) Act, legislation that would require a comprehensive accounting of how much Donald Trump and members of his family have profited from his presidency. Specifically, the bill would require a report on taxpayer expenditures to the Trump Organization and its affiliates in FY ’17, including Trump hotels, as well as an annual report moving forward on appropriated funds and regulatory actions which financially benefit the President, his businesses and those of his close family members. “The American people are fed up with the endemic, unapologetic corruption in the Trump administration,” said Rep. Gallego. “We have no idea how much money has gone from the federal treasury directly into Donald Trump’s pockets. We introduced the CORRUPT Act because Congress and the American people deserve a full and ongoing accounting of how Trump is profiting from the Presidency.” “President Trump has been in violation of the Constitution since he was sworn into office,” said Rep. Ted Lieu. “The Emoluments Clause clearly states that a President can’t profit off of the status of the highest office in the land and yet that hasn’t stopped the Trump family from lining their pockets at taxpayer expense. I’m proud to join my colleagues introducing this bill so that we can finally get to the bottom of Trump’s self-dealing.” “Government in democracy is for the common good but government in a dictatorship is a money-making operation for the ruler and his family and friends. Which one are we going to be?” said Rep. Jamie Raskin. “Let’s have some transparency in Trump’s spending so we can restore some real accountability in our society.” "The American people shouldn't have to wonder if this president is looking out for their best interests or only for himself. It's clear that Trump is using his power for his own gain, but it's not the job of taxpayers to support his absurd business ventures and Mar-a-Lago vacations," said Rep. Jayapal. "The CORRUPT Act ensures something that people across this nation expect and deserve: transparency. We will keep pushing to ensure the president is held to that standard." To date, millions in taxpayer dollars have found their way into the coffers of the Trump Organization, including through federal employee stays at Trump hotels and space rented by federal agencies at Trump owned properties. For example: Tax payers paid $100,000 in hotels alone for a Trump brothers business trip in Feb 2017 for the development of Trump hotels in Uruguay – the government spends money on travel, hotels, and accommodations every time a member of the Trump family travels USA Today estimated that from January-August 2017, the Secret Service spent $59,585 on golf cart rentals alone as part of the President’s trips to his own golf clubs Taxpayers paid over $120k every day while Melania lived in Trump Tower in 2017 before moving to the White House – during that same time $676,635 was spent on AF1 flights for her to and from the WH and Mar-a-Lago A federal employee racked up a $1,092 bill for a two night stay at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Club last year The State Department spent $15,000 at the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Vancouver for its grand opening in February 2017, an event attended by Trump’s sons Donald Jr. and Eric as well as his daughter Tiffany An employee of the General Services Administration, the agency overseeing the lease for the Trump hotel in Washington, spent $900 on a stay at the property last year. ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo la siguiente declaración sobre la fecha límite de DACA de Donald Trump: “Hace seis meses, el presidente Trump provocó una crisis para 800,000 jóvenes y sus familias cuando terminó cruelmente el programa DACA. “Los republicanos en el Congreso han pasado los últimos seis meses utilizando a los Dreamers como fichas de negociación política. Cada vez es más evidente que el Partido Republicano nunca tuvo la intención de arreglar el desastre que crearon. “En los próximos meses, miles de beneficiarios de DACA perderán sus autorizaciones de trabajo y estarán en riesgo de ser deportados. Sus familias, amigos, colegas y empleadores confían en el Congreso para hacer algo para protegerlos. “Mis colegas republicanos deben dejar de jugar con las vidas de los Dreamers, y los líderes republicanos deben hacer su trabajo y permitir una votación sobre el Dream Act.” ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s arbitrary DACA deadline: “Six months ago, President Trump manufactured a crisis for 800,000 young people and their families when he cruelly and callously ended the DACA program. “Congressional Republicans have spent the past six months using the Dreamers as political bargaining chips. It is becoming ever more evident that the GOP never really intended to fix the mess they created. “In the coming months, thousands of DACA recipients will lose their work authorizations and be placed at risk for deportation. Their families, friends, colleagues and employers are relying on Congress to do something to protect them. “My Republican colleagues need to stop playing games with people’s lives, and Republican leadership needs to do their jobs and allow a vote on the Dream Act.” ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a Marine Corps combat veteran of the Iraq War, released the following statement: “President Trump campaigned on improving care for our nation's veterans. But in office, his administration has pushed an extreme privatization agenda that veterans staunchly oppose. “We learned in February that veterans policy in the Trump White House is controlled by high-ranking officials from a Koch brother-funded organization committed to ending the VA's indispensable role as a provider of direct care to veterans. It was also revealed that Trump advisors have actively worked to undermine Secretary Shulkin, sowing confusion and mistrust at the highest levels of the Department. “While I've had my disagreements with Secretary Shulkin, America's veterans deserve competent, functioning leadership at the top of the VA. That is clearly impossible when the ideologues who staff Trump's Veterans Policy Coordinating Committee are determined to implement privatization policies over the objections of the Secretary, VA employees, national veterans organizations, and -- most importantly -- the vast majority of veterans themselves. “That's why it's time to dismiss those officials in the Trump White House, including top veterans advisor Darin Selnick, who have sought to weaken and undermine the VA at every turn.” ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA) wrote to FBI Director Christopher Wray requesting detailed information regarding the White House’s security clearance approval process. The letter follows reports that potentially dozens of senior Trump Administration officials who lack a permanent clearance may currently be accessing highly classified materials that they are not authorized to handle or possess. This revelation is troubling because, as the letter states, “[a]ny systemic, known, or otherwise inappropriate disclosure of classified information to unsuitable, insecure, or unauthorized persons represents a major security threat. This threat exists whether or not those persons are employed at the White House.” The full text is below. Dear Director Wray: It has come to our attention that several individuals in the Executive Office of the President (EOP) are handling classified information without permanent security clearances and/or positive adjudications of background checks required for their employment at the White House. As you know, interim security clearances typically authorize disclosure of information classified at the SECRET level. Access to TOP SECRET and specialized compartments of extreme sensitivity requires favorable adjudication of the full security clearance process. Due to the seniority of several White House officials who reportedly have not received positive security clearance adjudications and the extremely sensitive information that the President must receive in order to do his job, we are concerned that individuals who do not have – and may never receive – proper clearances nevertheless have access to view and handle such information. In light of this concern, please provide within 30 days of transmission of this letter answers to the following questions: 1.How many clearances are the FBI, National Background Investigations Bureau, OPM, the CIA, and/or any other U.S. Government Department or Agency currently processing for individuals working in the EOP? 2.What is the total number of EOP clearances? What is the total number of EOP clearances deemed “interim” or otherwise “temporary?” Please include information for individuals both employed directly by the EOP and detailed to the EOP from other organizations within the U.S. Government, universities, think tanks, and/or the private sector. 3.What is the procedure for recovering SECRET or other sensitive information disclosed to a security clearance candidate that fails to receive a positive security clearance adjudication? 4.What is the procedure for terminating employment for a security clearance candidate that fails to receive a positive security clearance adjudication? 5.What is the procedure for granting an interim security clearance to an employee who could reasonably be expected to encounter compartmentalized or codeword-classified information due to the nature of his position? 6.What is the process for extending an interim security clearance beyond the two standard 180 day periods? Please include approval authority, both within the EOP or other requesting agency and within the approval agency. 7.Can an individual be granted an “interim” or otherwise “temporary” security clearance that grants her access to information classified at the TOP SECRET or compartmentalized level? If answers to the above questions are classified or contain personally identifiable information, we will be pleased to host you or your designate in appropriate, secure spaces in Congress. As you know, unauthorized disclosure of CONFIDENTIAL information can be expected to cause damage to national security. Unauthorized disclosure of SECRET information can be expected to cause serious damage to national security. Unauthorized disclosure of TOP SECRET information can be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to national security. For this reason, any systemic, known, or otherwise inappropriate disclosure of classified information to unsuitable, insecure, or unauthorized persons represents a major security threat. This threat exists whether or not those persons are employed at the White House. Thank you for your careful consideration of our concerns, and thank you for your service to the Nation. Sincerely, ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “This is a sad, frustrating morning for Dreamers and their families. “In the middle of the night, I voted NO on a bill that will fund deportation of the Dreamers that Paul Ryan refuses to protect. “Instead of allowing a fair debate, Speaker Ryan is refusing to permit a vote on legislation to protect them from deportation unless a majority of his Caucus and Donald Trump approve. Meanwhile, the lives of 800,000 Dreamers are in limbo as they wait to find out whether they will be allowed to continue working and living in the only country they have ever really known, or whether they will become the next victims of Donald Trump’s ruthless deportation force. “It’s time for Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell and Donald Trump to stop pandering to the most extreme elements of their base. My Democratic colleagues and I are ready to get to work to protect Dreamers. Republicans need to stop making hollow promises and finally take action to clean up the mess that they created.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced that his guest at the 2018 State of the Union address will be Antonio Valdovinos of Phoenix, Arizona. Each year, Members of Congress are permitted one guest to attend the President’s address. Antonio is a 27-year old DACA recipient, who became involved in politics and community activism after being denied entry to the Marine Corps due to his legal status. In 2011, Antonio was one of the founding members of Team Awesome, a group of Dreamers who canvassed to get progressives elected to the Phoenix City Council. He then founded his own business, La Machine, focused on executing grassroots activism, community engagement and voter contact programs in Arizona and the Southwest. “Like so many Dreamers, Antonio is a patriotic young man who is working hard and contributing to our community. And like hundreds of thousands of Dreamers across this country, his life was placed in limbo when Donald Trump made the cruel and callous decision to end the DACA program,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “I hope that President Trump and his administration will take notice of the Dreamers who attend tonight’s address and it will remind them to get to work to fix the problem they created.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego and Kyrsten Sinema wrote to Acting Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Daniel Elwell regarding the FAA’s plans for community outreach in connection with the restoration of pre-2014 flight paths at Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport (PHX) and the subsequent development of new routes for aircraft departing Phoenix. These changes are occurring pursuant to an agreement reached by the agency with the City of Phoenix and Phoenix neighborhood associations after a judge ruled that the FAA had violated federal law by failing to appropriately consult with local residents or elected officials before implementing new departure procedures at PHX in 2014. Unfortunately, under its current plan, the FAA only intends to hold three public meetings to solicit community comments and none are scheduled in either the historic neighborhoods that brought the lawsuit or in the area of the city – Central City South – that is expected to be exposed to the highest levels of aircraft noise after the old routes are reinstituted. In response, Reps. Gallego and Sinema are urging the FAA to conduct more extensive local outreach, especially in those communities most affected by the flight path changes. “I’m extremely concerned that the FAA is repeating its past mistakes in Phoenix,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “Until a federal judge intervened, the agency was completely indifferent to the concerns of local residents. Now, with new flight paths in the works, the outreach that the FAA is planning is totally inadequate. At a bare minimum, the FAA needs to hold additional public meetings in the historic neighborhoods and Central City South, both of which experienced tremendous changes in aircraft noise when the new routes were implemented in 2014.” “It’s wrong for Washington to make decisions about Arizona without listening to Arizonans,” said Rep. Kyrsten Sinema. “FAA must fix its mistakes by asking for and listening to input from the communities surrounding Sky Harbor. Phoenix families must be heard before the FAA moves forward.” The full text of the letter is below. ------- Dear Acting Administrator Elwell: We welcomed the recent decision in the lawsuit brought by the City of Phoenix and Phoenix neighborhood associations against the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which validated our long-held contention that the FAA acted improperly when it altered flight paths departing Sky Harbor International Airport without first soliciting input from the affected communities. Unfortunately, in implementing the agreement subsequently reached by the parties to this case, we fear that the FAA may be duplicating its past mistakes by failing to conduct adequate outreach to Phoenix-area residents. As you know, the FAA intends to restore the pre-September 2014 departure procedures in Phoenix and will then consider new flight paths based on feedback from the public. To date, three events billed as “FAA Airspace Workshops” have been announced to collect public comments. Unfortunately, no such hearings are currently planned in either the historic districts that joined the suit against the FAA or in Central City South, the collection of neighborhoods that experienced the highest levels of aircraft noise prior to the changes in 2014. Again, at that time, the FAA acted without consulting with members of the affected communities or local elected officials and – before the federal court intervened – stubbornly refused to take meaningful steps to address their concerns. We strongly believe that this record of indifference must not be replicated. To that end, we urge you to schedule additional meetings in Phoenix’s historic neighborhoods and Central City South as well as other communities likely to experience significant changes in aircraft noise as a result of the return to the preexisting departure procedures. In addition, we strongly request that you consult closely with local elected officials and municipal staff in determining the timing, location, and format of these workshops. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to working with you to reduce the harmful impact of aircraft noise on Phoenix-area residents. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Kyrsten Sinema Member of Congress ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “I am disappointed by today’s vote in the Senate. Cheap talk from Mitch McConnell is not enough. “Susan Collins knows that. She was promised a vote on two measures to shore up the individual health insurance market in return for her support for the GOP tax bill – a commitment McConnell has subsequently ignored. Also, during the tax debate, Jeff Flake got a promise from McConnell to work with him on legislation to protect Dreamers from deportation. Again, McConnell reneged on his pledge. “That is why I will be voting no on the CR. “It’s important for everyone to remember who put us here and who is on whose side. Donald Trump said he wants a ‘bill of love’ to protect Dreamers. Paul Ryan made a very public promise to a Dreamer mom during a town hall that he would act. Just like Mitch McConnell, neither of them has delivered. Instead of solutions, they’ve offered demands for sweeping, unnecessary changes to immigration policy, empowering the most radical members of the GOP while insisting to the public that nobody wants to see the Dreamers deported. “Dreamers are hardworking, determined people who only want to remain in the country they call home. I will stand strong and continue to fight to protect these patriotic young people.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) wrote to the American Hotel & Lodging Association requesting the establishment of formal industry standards encouraging hotel chains to protect their guests from warrantless intrusions by federal immigration authorities or other law enforcement agencies. The letter follows reports that Motel 6 locations in Arizona and Washington were routinely handing over customers’ personal information to federal immigration authorities for the purpose of conducting enforcement actions. “We’re urging the hotel industry to help protect American travelers from the out-of-control Trump administration,” said Rep. Gallego. “We know now that ICE agents across the country are taking guest lists without a warrant and harassing customers with Latino names. Empowered by President Trump, they are engaging in brazen racial profiling and trampling on the rights of law abiding people. In the face of these unacceptable and un-American tactics, it’s time for the hotel industry to step up and do more to protect the traveling public.” “Recent reports of Motel 6 combing guest lists for immigrants and turning over Latino names to ICE agents are deeply alarming. With the Trump administration overseeing an out-of-control deportation force, it is up to leaders in every industry, including hotels, to be vigilant in adhering to the rule of law and ensuring equal protection for all,” said Rep. Jayapal. “Racism and racial profiling have no place anywhere in America. Congressman Gallego and I urge the American Hotel and Lodging Association to put in place standards to make sure these things never happen again.” The full text of the letter to the AHLA is below and the signed letter can be found here. ---------------------------------------------------- January 9, 2017 Katherine Lugar President and Chief Executive Officer American Hotel & Lodging Association 1250 Eye Street, NW, Suite 1100 Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Ms. Lugar: In September, it emerged that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents had solicited lists of guests at Motel 6 hotels in Arizona for the purpose of conducting enforcement actions. We have now learned that Motel 6 locations in Washington also routinely handed over customers’ personal information to federal immigration authorities, leading to the detention of at least 6 individuals. While the company’s leadership has instituted a new policy prohibiting its employees from complying with warrantless requests from ICE, we write to strongly encourage your association to develop industry-wide standards to prevent similar abuses in the future. According to local news reports, ICE agents in Arizona obtained guest information from two Phoenix-area hotels each morning at 5AM. Individuals staying at these hotels whom the agency suspected of being undocumented were then visited by agents – in many cases without a warrant – and subjected to questioning and possible arrest. Similarly, in Washington, six Motel 6 branches collectively provided the registry information of at least 9,000 guests to federal immigration authorities. The state Attorney General also alleges that at a hotel in Everett, Washington ICE agents regularly combed guest lists and circled individuals with Latino names. These tactics raise a number of grave concerns, including the potential for racial profiling. We are therefore gratified that Motel 6 has taken action to ensure that its employees will no longer facilitate the random screening and harassment of hotel patrons in this manner. Unfortunately, other local and national hotel chains have yet to adopt similar policies, which raises the possibility that the privacy of guests at other locations could be similarly violated in the future. We were pleased that your Senior Vice President of Communications and Public Relations, Rosanna Maietta, told the New York Times that “no guest information should be turned over unless law enforcement requires it.” However, we also believe that your association should go further by developing and promulgating formal industry standards encouraging hotel chains to do more to protect their guests from warrantless intrusions by federal immigration authorities or other law enforcement agencies. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to working with you to safeguard the privacy of American travelers. Sincerely, ###
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement in response to reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions will rescind a policy that eased enforcement of federal marijuana laws as a growing number of states passed laws permitting regulated sale and use: “I support full legalization of marijuana. As a member of the Arizona legislature, I introduced a bill that would have legalized marijuana possession and regulated and taxed marijuana in our state in a manner similar to alcohol. I wholly support these types of measures. “Marijuana is less harmful than other regulated products, including alcohol, when used properly by adults. I believe that its regulation makes it even safer, and allows states to economically benefit through reasonable taxation – shifting production and sale of marijuana away from drug cartels and criminals and into the hands of taxpaying businesses that are subject to strict regulations. “But this decision is also about so much more. “Jeff Sessions’ irresponsible decision is not only an infringement on states’ rights, but it is bad policy that will disproportionately hurt Latino and black youth and the economically disadvantaged, who already face higher rates of prosecution and conviction for minor offenses. “The Trump-Sessions Justice Department has weakened civil rights enforcement, increased mandatory minimum sentences, walked back monitoring of law enforcement agencies charged with civil rights abuses, and is now looking to ramp up prosecution of legalized marijuana. “Jeff Sessions is a man whose entire career has been defined by his hostility towards civil rights and racial justice, and his tenure as the nation’s top law enforcement official has enabled him to continue this dangerous assault on our democracy. “The American people deserve a Justice Department that will fight to protect the civil rights of all people instead of promoting bad policy motivated by racial animus.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “When President Trump ended the DACA program, he cast thousands of young people – our friends, our neighbors, and our colleagues – into a world of uncertainty and fear. “It takes immense courage to stand up to power at any time, but even more so when your life as you know it is at great risk. I have the utmost admiration and respect for the Dreamers who are taking a stand and fighting for their right to continue to live and work in the country they call home. “I stand in full support of Dreamers like Arizona’s Belen Sisa, who previously interned in my district office, and Erika Andiola, who are peacefully demanding that Congress pass the Dream Act.” ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Today, President Trump and Congressional Republicans pulled off one of the biggest heists in American history – stealing from the pockets of middle class families and workers in order to line the pockets of the already-rich. “Instead of leveling the playing field and investing in opportunities for all, the Trump GOP has clearly demonstrated that its primary goal is to reinforce the power and increase the wealth of the party's richest donors. Ultimately, more than 80 million households will see their taxes go up under this outrageous plan. Make no mistake -- this bill represents an attack on the American middle class. “Just like the Trump presidency, the GOP Tax Scam is an abject failure that will come back to haunt the Republican Party." ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “President Trump’s National Security Strategy (NSS) is the product of willful ignorance. “The Trump Administration has purged their so-called ‘strategy’ of any mention of the empirical fact of climate change. It glosses over successful Russian attempts to undermine our elections in a serious way. It turns China into a ‘strategic competitor,’ and then proposes to do very little about it. The NSS includes a promise to ‘rebuild America’s military,’ yet the President and Republicans in Congress are set to waste over a trillion dollars on tax cuts for the wealthy rather than invest in America’s future military strength and domestic prosperity. The plan even accuses legal immigrants of threatening our nation despite the fact that tens of thousands of them are currently serving in our military and security services. “In short, this so-called ‘strategy’ is undeserving of the name. And, like Trump’s presidency, his NSS will fail and ultimately be replaced.” ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: "For thousands of Dreamers and their families, the deadline to pass a legislative solution isn't March- it's now. Every day, 122 Dreamers lose their DACA protection, are no longer able to work to support their families, and are placed at risk of deportation. “The clock is ticking and we must act to resolve the crisis that President Trump created by rescinding DACA. It is critical that Congress act now and include the DREAM Act in the must-pass spending bill this week." ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s vote to eliminate the Open Internet Order: “I am incredibly disappointed by the FCC’s irresponsible and partisan decision to repeal net neutrality rules. “In moving forward with this decision, Chairman Ajit Pai and the two other Republican appointees who voted to repeal the Open Internet Order ignored the widespread outcry against his plan from millions of people, lawmakers, and public interest groups. “For decades, the United States has been a leader in information technology, and a free, open internet is essential to that. Many of my colleagues and I have been astounded in recent weeks by the phone calls and letters in defense of net neutrality. “I am committed to fighting for net neutrality to ensure competition, protect consumers, and preserve a free, open internet.” ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement in response to the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein: “House Republicans didn’t have the dignity or self-awareness to disguise their intentions at today’s House Judiciary Committee hearing. In spite of Robert Mueller’s sterling reputation, they were clearly determined to discredit his investigation and to lay the groundwork for President Trump to fire the Special Counsel. They should be embarrassed and ashamed. “There’s mounting evidence that the Trump campaign colluded with an enemy of the United States in order to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. Every American who loves our country and genuinely cares about our democracy should want to know the full truth about what transpired. Yet, at every turn, House Republicans have either sought to change the subject or to cast doubt on Mueller’s independence and integrity, despite the fact that many of them lavishly praised him before the former FBI Director was chosen to lead the Russia probe. “Ultimately, the Trump administration’s evasions and outright lies represent a challenge for Congress as an institution – a test of our collective character that House Republicans are clearly failing. Time and time again, they have placed partisanship before patriotism. Over and over, they have bent over backwards to cover for Donald Trump. My Republican colleagues are letting their constituents and our country down. “The American people deserve better.” ###
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), and Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) led fifty of their colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos opposing recently reported proposed changes to the Office for Civil Rights’ investigations into discrimination in our education system. The letter highlights the importance of preserving current Office for Civil Rights policy by examining instances of bias in the context of schoolwide policies and not in isolation, as DeVos has proposed. It also decries a change reportedly being considered by the Department that would grant individual schools the authority to negotiate a resolution to a civil rights investigation before any information is released to parents. “Secretary DeVos’s proposed changes to civil rights investigations in schools are a thinly veiled attempt to weaken protections against discrimination for marginalized kids, including LGBT students and students of color,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “I strongly believe the Office for Civil Rights should be empowered to thoroughly and effectively investigate discrimination in schools. And when investigators uncover a clear pattern of bias, parents should have a right to know. We cannot stand by while protections for our kids are stripped away by this administration.” The full text of the letter is below. A signed copy of the letter can be found here. Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to express our concern in response to reports that the Department of Education, at your direction, is considering weakening civil rights investigations in schools, undermining the Department’s ability to combat discrimination in our education system. We strongly urge you to withdraw these proposed policy changes in order to ensure that efforts to address the unfair and unequal treatment of students will not be hindered. On November 23, 2017, the Associated Press reported that your Department was circulating a draft of proposed changes to school civil rights investigation procedures carried out by the Department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR). Reportedly, the proposed changes would narrow the scope of these investigations so that reported incidents are investigated in isolation rather than as part of a broader pattern of discrimination and bias. The purported draft would also permit a modification to how discrimination cases are handled, giving individual schools the authority to negotiate a resolution to the investigation before any information is released to parents. Coming in the wake of an internal memorandum circulated by acting OCR Assistant Secretary Candice Jackson in June announcing the Office’s intention to scale back its civil rights investigations, these reported changes call into question your Department’s commitment to combating discrimination in a meaningful and effective manner. The investigations of systemic bias that you are seeking to curtail have proven invaluable in identifying persons and policies within an institution that promote discrimination. Without examining reported incidents in the broader context of a school’s practices, OCR cannot ensure that impediments to equal access to education are effectively addressed. The Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights plays a critical role in exposing and correcting discrimination and bias in our public school system. The changes to current civil rights investigation procedures that you are reportedly advocating would severely undermine the Department’s ability to combat systemic discrimination and unfairly weaken parents’ ability to advocate on behalf of their children. Again, for these reasons, we strongly urge you to abandon these misguided proposals and reaffirm your Department’s commitment to defending equal opportunity in our education system. Sincerely, 59 Members of Congress ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Eric Swallwell (CA-15), and Gerry Connolly (VA-11) sent a letter to Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats requesting information regarding the Intelligence Community’s assessment of possible Russian interference in the United Kingdom’s 2016 referendum over whether to withdraw from the European Union (“Brexit”). Their request follows conclusive evidence that Russia sought to influence the results of the recent French and German elections, as well as the 2016 presidential race here in the United States. “Given the special relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom, we believe this information could be useful in identifying patterns, understanding Russian methods, and bolstering future shared efforts to protect the integrity of our political and electoral systems from its interference,” the Congressmen wrote. The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. ---------------------------------------------------- Dear Director Coats: We write to request a written response and/or a classified briefing regarding the Intelligence Community’s (IC) assessment of possible Russian interference in the 2016 United Kingdom referendum over whether to withdraw from the European Union (“Brexit”). We make this request in light of Russia’s interference in our 2016 presidential election campaign, credible reports of similar efforts to disrupt the recent French and German elections, and the continuing threat that Russia poses to Western democratic institutions. Given the special relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom, we believe this information could be useful in identifying patterns, understanding Russian methods, and bolstering future shared efforts to protect the integrity of our political and electoral systems from its interference. This information also would allow us, as legislators, to have a more thorough understanding of the global threat that Russia poses to electoral integrity, so we can better craft legislation to address it at home and abroad. We request that your response include answers to the following questions, along with any other information you believe is pertinent to our understanding: Is there a unified IC assessment about the extent to which there was interference by Russia or third-state actors in the campaign regarding Brexit? If so, what is the assessment? If not, what are the differing views? Did the IC find that non-British individuals interfered with the Brexit campaign via social media propaganda, hacking voter databases, and/or other means? If so, has the IC been able to link such individuals to any specific groups, governments, or political movements? Did the IC find that any possible interference in the 2016 Brexit campaign showed any parallels to the Russian interference in our 2016 election? Did the IC find that any British countermeasures helped stem the tide of any Russian interference? If there was interference by Russia in the Brexit campaign, what lessons has the IC learned and/or what conclusions has it drawn regarding Russia’s methods that may be useful in better defending against future attacks on our own elections? We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
12.07.2017	From left: Niyonkuru Pamphile, Edgar Alvarez, and Jesus Hernandez WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego recognized three students from Arizona’s 7th Congressional district as winners of this year’s Congressional App Challenge – a competition that encourages high school students from across the United States to create their own mobile applications. Metro Tech High School seniors Edgar Alvarez, Jesus Hernandez, and Niyonkuru Pamphile won first place for their app, titled “American Trivia.” “American Trivia” will be displayed on the Congressional App Challenge website and will be exhibited on a digital display in the Capitol Building for a year. The students created the app as a part of a Game and App Development Class, a Career and Technical Education class offered in the Phoenix Union High School District. The students designed the functional, fun and user-friendly app using JavaScript in Code.org’s App Lab. “I want to congratulate Edgar, Jesus and Nyonkuru, the winners of this year’s Congressional App Challenge,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “Coding takes creativity and hard work, and I was thoroughly impressed by the entries submitted by the talented students in our district. These students have a bright future ahead of them, and will help create the technology that will change our world.” “These three young men will be successful in any career they choose,” said teacher Chad Renning. “They all have a desire to learn, are self-motivated and work hard – not to mention they are extremely smart. I can’t wait to see what else they create.” The winners were chosen by a team of judges selected from throughout Arizona’s 7th Congressional district. The judges included: Daniel G. Cartagena, Senior System Engineer, Intel Juana Maes, Manufacturing Engineer, GKN Aerospae and Secretary of the Society of Hispanic Engineers (SHPE) Maira Garcia, Systems Engineer, Honeywell Aerospace and President of SHPE, Phoenix Chapter Diana Vowels, General Manager, Galvanize, Phoenix The annual Congressional App Challenge highlights the value of computer science and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education. This was the first year that students from Arizona’s 7th Congressional district submitted entries to the competition. ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON DC – Today, 5 veterans serving in Congress – Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Collin Peterson (D-MN) – wrote to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin urging him to reconsider a plan reportedly being developed behind closed doors to partially merge the VA and DOD health care systems. The letter argues that the proposal represents a dangerous step towards privatization and could compromise the VA’s critical role as a direct provider of care to veterans. The Congressmen also criticized the secretive manner in which the proposal is being developed—without public meetings, independent studies or consultations with veterans organizations. “Veterans recognize that merging the VA with Tricare simply doesn’t make sense,” said Rep. Gallego, a Marine Corps combat veteran. “The Trump Administration’s obvious intention is to erode the VA’s ability to serve as a direct provider of care to men and women who risked their lives for our country. This half-baked idea is also clearly consistent with the extreme privatization agenda that conservative groups have been pushing for years—groups more interested in discrediting government than in improving health care for our veterans. Congress should put a stop to this unwise and unworkable plan.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. Dear Secretary Shulkin: We write to express our grave concerns regarding a proposal reportedly being considered by the Administration to partially merge the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Defense (DOD) health care systems. If adopted, this radical shift in policy could undermine care for veterans, increase their medical costs and dramatically expand the federal government’s reliance on the private sector to meet the unique needs of men and women who served our nation in uniform. We strongly urge you to reconsider this proposal and to refrain from taking any additional steps to implement it without first consulting with key stakeholders, including interested Members of Congress and veterans groups. While we strongly support ongoing efforts to strengthen coordination between VA and DOD, it is important to note that the two Departments serve separate patient populations with drastically different needs. Specifically, Tricare beneficiaries are generally younger and healthier than veterans who receive care through the VA. As stakeholders will attest, providers at the VA are uniquely trained and equipped to manage the care of a patient population that suffers from combat-related injury and illness, including traumatic brain injury and PTSD, in a culturally competent environment. We are therefore concerned that merging the two programs would compromise critical services for older veterans and those with serious medical conditions. Further, a Tricare-VA merger could compel veterans entitled to care provided by the VA system to instead seek care through the private sector, a shift that could unfairly force veterans to pay out-of-pocket costs that they wouldn’t otherwise be required to bear. In addition to the potentially harmful impacts of this proposal, we are deeply concerned by the manner in which such a consequential change in veterans policy is being considered. No public meetings or hearings have been held. No independent studies have been conducted to estimate the cost of such a merger or to assess its implications for quality of care. Moreover, national veterans service organizations, which collectively represent the interests of tens of millions of American veterans, have not been asked to provide input or recommendations as part of the decision-making process. In fact, our best information about the substance of your proposal has come to light only as a result of media reporting on closed door deliberations within the Administration. That’s certainly not the way that policy changes affecting millions of veterans should be considered. Finally, as strong supporters of high quality veterans’ health care and as advocates for the VA’s role as a direct provider of care to veterans, we believe this proposal represents a misguided step in the direction of privatization. Again, given its potential consequences for our veterans and for the integrity of the VA health care system, we request that you reconsider your support for this merger and urge you to fully and transparently engage with key stakeholders, including Congress and veterans organizations, on this issue moving forwards. Sincerely, ###
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s announcement that he would drastically shrink the Bears Ears National Monument. Last week, Rep. Gallego introduced a bill (HR 4518) that would protect the original acreage identified by the tribes as needing federal protection. The bill currently has 25 cosponsors. “President Trump’s reckless decision to remove protections for these sacred lands is unprecedented. Tribal nations have fought for years to safeguard their irreplaceable natural and cultural heritage, and with the swoop of a pen, Donald Trump is eliminating those hard-won protections. “As a nation, we have a moral responsibility to conserve our cultural and natural history and resources for future generations. My bill will provide permanent protection for these important ancestral sites. Our public lands belong to all of us, and I’m proud to be leading the fight to preserve these places and stories for our children and grandchildren.” ###
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) introduced a bill to protect the Bears Ears National Monument from an unprecedented attempt by the Trump administration to downsize and redraw the monument’s boundaries. Last year, following extensive negotiations with five Native American tribes, President Obama signed Proclamation 9558, which established the Bears Ears National Monument, conserving 1.35 million acres of wilderness and protecting over 100,000 Native American archaeological and cultural sites. Unfortunately, following a review conducted with no meaningful input from the tribes, the Department of the Interior recommended downsizing the monument – an action that would be without precedent in American history. President Trump is visiting Utah on Monday and is widely expected to announce the redrawing of the monument’s boundaries to effect a drastic decrease in protected land beyond the Interior Department’s recommendation. Rep. Gallego’s bill would protect the original acreage identified by the tribes as housing culturally sensitive artifacts and sacred lands. The bill’s 24 original cosponsors include Reps. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Jared Polis (CO-02), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), Darren Soto (FL-09), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Lucille Roybal Allard (CA-40), Nanette Barragán (CA-44), Donald McEachin (VA-04), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Don Beyer (VA-08) and Jacky Rosen (NV-03). The bill has been endorsed by the Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council, Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, The Wilderness Society, Conservation Lands Foundation, Earthjustice, League of Conservation Voters, National Parks Conservation Association, Grand Canyon Trust, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “President Trump’s reckless proposal to slash 85% of this important monument is unprecedented,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “Secretary Zinke did not meaningfully consult the tribes during his ‘review,’ and now Trump won’t even visit the sacred tribal sites that he’s planning to dismantle protections for. We can’t allow the Trump administration to sell off America’s natural and cultural heritage to the highest bidder.” "The Bears Ears National Monument Expansion Act is a model for how we should be protecting special places. Instead of turning our public lands over to corporate polluters, our country should be protecting the landscape, wildlife, and thousands of sites of spiritual importance within Bears Ears from threats like illegal ATV use, looting, and vandalism. Most importantly, tribes should be able to participate meaningfully in its management and have access to the land for their traditional uses, and the Bears Ears National Monument Expansion Act does just that," said Micheal Brune, Sierra Club's Executive Director. Scott Miller, The Wilderness Society’s Southwest Regional Director, said, “We applaud Rep. Gallego and the cosponsors of this forward-looking bill to fully protect the Bears Ears region and honor the wishes of the five sovereign tribal nations who have fought for years to protect their ancestral lands and sacred sites. At a time when the President is callously preparing to ignore the outcry of millions of Americans and take illegal action that flies in the face of tribal sovereignty, it’s important to see leaders in Congress like Rep. Gallego moving forward to more fully protect these irreplaceable lands and cultural resources for future generations.” Sharon Buccino, Director of the Natural Resource Defense Council’s Lands Program, said, “Bears Ears is one of the nation’s true gems—with dramatic canyons, cliffs, mesas and creeks—and tens of thousands of petroglyphs, granaries and other cultural sites. These treasures need permanent protection from drilling, mining, vandalism and other threats. This bill represents a complete vision of Bears Ears. In protecting the full landscape and all of its cultural resources, we tell the story of the Native Americans who have called this place home for thousands of years – and give them a voice in the management of their sacred heritage.” “Rep. Gallego’s bill would ensure that the cultural resources and sacred sites at Bears Ears National Monument remain protected and prevent reckless attempts to open Bears Ears or any other park or monument to fossil fuel interests,” said Arian Rubio, Lands Legislative Associate at the League of Conservation Voters. “The Trump administration may try to dismiss the millions of public comments in support of protecting parks and monuments, but we’re proud to stand with strong advocates like Rep. Gallego and fight for the majority of people in this country who want to keep public lands and waters protected for future generations.” David Nimkin, Southwest Senior Regional Director for National Parks Conservation Association, said, “Our national parks and monuments protect some of our country’s most important places and belong to all of us. Bears Ears connects and protects the larger national park landscape that includes Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, Natural Bridges National Monument and Canyonlands National Park and is part of the ancestral homelands of many tribal communities. Congressman Gallego’s bill honors the interests of these communities and rightfully expands protections to more fully protect the remarkable natural and cultural resources found here.” Scott Groene, the Executive Director of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, said, “The boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument were always just the first step, protecting less than what the tribes requested or what the landscape deserved. Rep. Gallego’s commitment to finishing the job by safeguarding the entirety of the Bears Ears cultural landscape is a demonstration of true leadership that stands in stark contrast to President Trump’s reckless efforts to slash protections for an irreplaceable landscape that holds deep significance." "We are very grateful to President Obama for the 1.35 million acre Bears Ears National Monument he designated in 2016, but his attempt to satisfy local non-Native interests by reducing our proposal by half a million acres has proven fruitless," said Carleton Bowekaty, Pueblo of Zuni Councilman. "Now, as our president prepares to dramatically and irresponsibly shrink the existing Bears Ears National Monument, we are delighted that Congressman Gallego has introduced a bill that would fulfill our original vision for the Bears Ears cultural landscape." "The 1.9 million acre boundary we originally proposed President Obama designate under the Antiquities Act is filled edge-to-edge with sacred sites important to our Tribal members," said Davis Filfred, Navajo Nation Council Delegate. "Representative Gallego's new bill would protect many significant cultural sites and objects that failed to gain needed protections in 2016." "We are thankful that Representative Gallego approached us to help us protect all of what we have worked for these many years," said Shaun Chapoose, member of the Ute Indian Tribe Business Committee. "Unlike President Trump and Secretary Zinke, Representative Gallego is doing what the rest of the federal government ought to be doing - honoring the government-to-government relationship and the trust and treaty obligations the United States shares with our Tribes." ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to the agreement reached by the City of Phoenix, neighborhood associations, and the federal government to reverse changes to departure flight paths at Sky Harbor airport that were implemented in 2014: "Since taking office, I've worked hard to compel the FAA to reconsider flight paths that exposed thousands of homes and businesses in our city to harmful levels of aircraft noise. I'm pleased that today's agreement will finally bring some much-needed relief to many residents who have been forced to cope with aircraft roaring overhead for far too long. "However, this fight is far from over. After reinstituting the old flight paths, the FAA will begin the process of developing new westward routes out of Sky Harbor. I am committed to working to ensure that, consistent with the terms of the agreement reached today, this effort is conducted in a transparent manner and reflects the interests and input of all of the affected communities – including those that will experience an increase in aircraft noise after the 2014 flight paths are restored. "Moving forward, I will take every opportunity to remind the FAA of its binding legal obligation to heed the concerns of local leaders, business owners and families in Phoenix." ###
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement in reaction to the disclosure of planning documents obtained by the Texas Observer related to the construction of President Trump’s border wall: “The grave concerns voiced by border communities about President Trump’s wall were confirmed by the documents obtained by the Texas Observer. “They prove that fulfilling this divisive campaign promise will require the use of eminent domain to seize property from our fellow citizens, including land that will be used for what the documents disturbingly term as ‘enforcement zones.’ They also conclusively show that hundreds of Americans will be forced from their homes, including seniors, and that the wall will impact local drinking water supplies and flood mitigation measures. Moreover, the documents verify that the Administration is preparing for construction in environmentally sensitive areas, including the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge. “Every American should be alarmed that, as these papers clearly show, planning for the wall is already well underway. We should also be angry that it took a FOIA request to bring this critical information to light. Trump’s pointless wall will hurt border communities and send a powerful message of hate. I’m hopeful that these troubling disclosures will strengthen Democrats’ resolve as budget negotiations heat up in the coming weeks.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement after passage of the House Republican’s tax plan: “Donald Trump has an obsession with winners versus losers, so I’ll put it this way – the only winners under this scam are rich people like Trump and his cronies, while middle class families, students, and workers will lose ‘bigly.’ The spoils of this tax plan go overwhelmingly to the wealthiest Americans, while the rest of the country is left to foot the bill. “Don’t let the GOP fool you – this plan isn’t meant to give hardworking Americans the help they deserve. It’s flat-out reverse Robin Hood – stealing from average citizens to further line the pockets of the rich.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Congressman Bradley Byrne (R-AL) introduced bipartisan legislation that would place jurisdiction over war powers issues, including authorizations for the use of military force (AUMF), under the Congressional Armed Services Committees. These matters are currently under the jurisdiction of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Under House Rule X, the House Armed Services Committee has jurisdiction over all areas of personnel, material, and strategy necessary for the conduct of war, making it the best-equipped panel to handle this critical responsibility. In addition, because the Congressional Armed Services Committees pass legislation authorizing defense activities every year, this jurisdictional change would give Congress a better opportunity to review and revise war-related policies. “Sixteen long years have passed since the 2001 AUMF was enacted,” said Rep. Gallego, a Marine Corps combat veteran and Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Frankly, given the rapidly evolving threats America faces, that means Congress hasn’t been doing its job. We need to enact institutional reforms to enable the legislative branch to once again exert its constitutional power over matters of war and peace. Giving responsibility for authorizations for the use of military force to the committee with the most relevant experience and expertise simply makes sense.” “I have long been concerned about the lack of adequate authorization for many of the current operations of the U.S. military,” said Rep. Byrne, also a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Congress needs to get our act together and pass a new AUMF that adequately meets the realities of today’s conflicts. The current inaction is unacceptable, and I think institutional reforms may be necessary to move the process forward. Our servicemen and women deserve an adequate AUMF that makes clear our support and authorization for the important work they do each and every day.” ###
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Yvette Clarke (NY-09) and 30 of their House Democratic colleagues wrote to Scott Powell, Chief Executive Officer of Santander Consumer USA regarding the company’s use of automated call monitoring software to make employee evaluation and compensation decisions. Automated software analytics – such as the Call Miner program used by Santander – are often built based on data sets that skew white, male, and toward certain dialects – which has been shown to result in telephone operators with accents, softer voices, and other varying speech patterns scoring poorly. “We are concerned about the possibility that the use of speech recognition tools like Call Miner in worker evaluation and compensation could lead to bias against certain groups of workers on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender, or even regional dialect,” they wrote. The letter asks Santander to take steps to ensure that the use of its call monitoring software is not having a discriminatory impact on the company’s workforce, including minority, female and disabled employees. “If you have not, in fact, taken any specific precautionary measures or collected data to ensure that all groups of workers receive fair and equitable treatment, we strongly encourage you to suspend use of the Call Miner tool for purposes of evaluation and compensation until you have done so,” the letter said. The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. Dear Mr. Powell: As you likely know, we are deeply committed to combating discrimination of any form. In this context, we are writing out of concern about the potentially discriminatory implications of practices outlined in a recent report by the AFL-CIO and National Employment Law Project, "Wheeling and Dealing Misfortune: How Santander's high pressure tactics hurt workers and auto loan consumers." This new report describes a system of intense monitoring of Santander Consumer workers' calls through an automated system known as “Call Miner.” According to the report, Call Miner “monitors and records employees’ calls and inspects their speech for potential problems.” The information gleaned from this monitoring is then used in workers’ performance evaluations, and may result in punitive actions including denial of bonuses to workers whose Call Miner scores are too low. We also understand that it is used as part of a “forced ranking” system that Santander uses to grade workers, which can ultimately lead to discipline or termination for low-ranked workers. Workers who recently came to brief Congress on conditions at Santander Consumer reported similar personal experiences. We are concerned about the possibility that the use of speech recognition tools like Call Miner in worker evaluation and compensation could lead to bias against certain groups of workers on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender, or even regional dialect. Many studies and reports have shown that speech recognition software can fail to recognize different dialects, accents or tones. According to linguist researcher Rachael Tatman, Google’s speech recognition software is much more consistent with male voices than female voices. Other reports note that “spoken accents… continue to perplex artificial intelligence.” Tatman states that the groups that are underrepresented in data sets that inform speech recognition software tend to be groups that are marginalized more broadly in society. If Call Miner’s software also fails to recognize certain groups’ speech patterns, it could result in discriminatory impacts on employment and compensation. Indeed, the AFL-CIO and NELP’s report cites one worker for whom Call Miner “was unable to identify the specific pronunciation of his words” and another with a lisp and a soft voice who observed that Call Miner was failing to understand her speech. We ask that you inform us what, if any, precautions you have taken to ensure that the use of Call Miner does not have a discriminatory impact on your workforce. Please also provide us with any analysis that you have done to monitor whether or not protected classes of workers are treated fairly by the use of Call Miner. If you have not, in fact, taken any specific precautionary measures or collected data to ensure that all groups of workers receive fair and equitable treatment, we strongly encourage you to suspend use of the Call Miner tool for purposes of evaluation and compensation until you have done so. Thanks in advance for your consideration and we look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Congressman José Serrano (D-NY), Congressman Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Congressman Vincente Gonzalez (D-TX) wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to clarify his position on whether the federal government should be permitted to use eminent domain to obtain land for the construction of President Trump’s border wall. As the letter explains, because more than 70 percent of the land abutting the southwest border belongs to entities other than the federal government, construction of the wall will require the extensive use of eminent domain to confiscate property held by American citizens. Speaker Ryan has repeatedly spoken out against the use of eminent domain in the past, but has yet to publicly state whether this mechanism should be employed by the Trump administration to fulfill one of the President’s key campaign promises. “We write to ask whether you support the use of eminent domain to secure land for the construction of President Trump’s expensive and unnecessary border wall,” the Congressmen write. “If so, we request that you explain the obvious contradiction between such a stance and your previous positions on this issue…The prospect of the Trump administration fighting families in court for their own land should alarm every American. We trust that your concern for private property rights extends to families living on our southwest border…” The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Speaker Ryan: More than 70 percent of the land along our southwest border belongs to entities other than the federal government. For this reason, it has become increasingly clear that construction of President Trump’s border wall will require the extensive use of eminent domain to seize property held by American citizens. Beyond its detrimental impact on border families and communities, this sweeping reliance on eminent domain also directly contradicts the Republican Conference’s support for the principle of limited government. And indeed, you and other senior members of your party have frequently inveighed against the use of eminent domain to facilitate public projects in the past. For example, you cosponsored legislation in response to a 2005 Supreme Court decision validating the expropriation of private land in New London, Connecticut. According to The Hill, you stated at the time that, "I took an oath to defend the Constitution, and this means protecting citizens’ right to own private property and prevent government from abusing its power." The 2016 Republican Party platform similarly urges caution in the use of eminent domain in a section entitled, “The Fifth Amendment: Protecting Private Property,” stating that, “when private property is not secure, freedom is at risk.” Given your past statements and your party’s platform, we write to ask whether you support the use of eminent domain to secure land for the construction of President Trump’s expensive and unnecessary border wall. If so, we request that you explain the obvious contradiction between such a stance and your previous positions on this issue. If not, we strongly encourage you to publicly denounce the use of eminent domain to confiscate property held by private landowners in order to construct a wall that will divide border communities and waste tens of billions of American tax dollars. Thank you for your attention to this matter. The prospect of the Trump administration fighting families in court for their own land should alarm every American. We trust that your concern for private property rights extends to families living on our southwest border and that you will publicly condemn any effort by the federal government to undermine those rights in the service of a wall that our country does not need and cannot afford. ###
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) wrote to the head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Phoenix Field Office, Enrique Lucero, requesting data and policy documents related to the agency’s operations in Arizona. Citing the recent Motel 6 scandal and the deportation of immigrant parents who posed no danger to their communities, the letter states that ICE’s actions in the state have called Lucero’s leadership into question and fed demands for greater transparency regarding the agency’s enforcement priorities. “We need to get to the bottom of what ICE is doing in Arizona,” said Rep. Gallego. “That’s why I’m demanding some very basic information about the operations of an agency that increasingly appears to be veering of out of control. The people of Arizona have a right to know why their tax dollars are being spent harassing hotel guests and tearing mothers from their children. We deserve immigration authorities who care more about keeping our communities safe than racking up high numbers of arrests and deportations.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. November 6, 2017 Enrique Lucero Field Office Director Enforcement and Removal Operations U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Phoenix Field Office 2035 N. Central Avenue Phoenix, AZ, 85004 Dear Mr. Lucero: I write to express my grave concerns regarding Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) operations in the Phoenix area under the Trump administration and to request detailed information about these actions, including copies of relevant policy documents. There is mounting evidence – both in terms of overall statistics and individual cases – that your agents are consistently failing to abide by sensible enforcement priorities. Instead of pursuing individuals who pose the greatest risk to our communities, they appear to be focused more on those immigrants who are the easiest to detain and deport, including longtime residents who check in regularly with ICE. This practice is alarming my constituents, wasting scarce government resources, and tearing law-abiding Arizona families apart. These apprehensions also raise serious questions about your commitment to considering the totality of circumstances in making decisions about individual cases and, ultimately, your leadership of the Phoenix Field Office. According to data obtained by The Arizona Republic, in the first 100 days of the Trump administration, immigration arrests in our state increased by more than 12 percent. Alarmingly, nearly a third of those apprehended did not have criminal records – a troubling statistic that casts doubt on your office’s commitment to prioritizing public safety. Indeed, among those deported in recent months were parents and breadwinners like Juan Carlos Fomperosa Garcia, Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos and Marco Tulio Coss Ponce – immigrants who posed no danger to our communities and left behind young US citizen children. These cases have contributed to concerns that your agency is increasingly casting an indiscriminate dragnet across Arizona. Instead of focusing on dangerous criminals, immigration lawyers in Phoenix report that your office is pursuing individuals who were deemed not to be priorities for removal during the Obama administration. I also understand that you have resumed the practice of conducting collateral arrests, detaining undocumented immigrants you happen to encounter who are not the focus of a particular operation. In addition, there were reports last week in the local media of ICE agents making repeated visits to a Phoenix apartment building and questioning people outside, actions that raise the possibility that your personnel may be actively engaging in racial profiling. Further, in September, Motel 6 confirmed that ICE agents were soliciting lists of guests at Phoenix area hotels and conducting warrantless “knock-and-talk” searches of hotel rooms. Finally, in March, the LA Times reported that ICE has begun executing arrests in the vicinity of courthouses across the country, including in Phoenix – a practice proven to deter immigrants from cooperating with law enforcement authorities. Collectively, these incidents paint a distinct and disturbing picture of a Field Office more interested in recording a high number of apprehensions than in targeting individuals who pose a genuine threat to public safety. On behalf of the immigrant communities I represent and consistent with my oversight responsibilities, I therefore request the following information: The number of individuals apprehended to date in 2017 who are parents of US citizen children and the disposition of their cases; The number of individuals apprehended to date in 2017 who were not convicted of a violent crime and the disposition of their cases; The number of individuals apprehended to date in 2017 in the vicinity of sensitive locations, specifically schools, hospitals, churches, daycare facilities and courthouses; Whether and under what circumstances ICE continues to solicit guest lists at Arizona hotels; and, Any guidance or memoranda describing both your enforcement priorities and your policies related to collateral arrests. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Member of Congress ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Jamie Raskin (MD-08) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to both express public support for Robert Mueller’s investigation and explain what steps he will take in the event that President Trump fires the Special Counsel. The letter notes that Trump already dismissed FBI Director James Comey in order to impede one inquiry into possible collusion by his campaign with the Russian government, and he could take the same action against Mueller following the indictment of Paul Manafort. The absence of public pressure from Ryan and the Republican leadership, the letter argues, makes it more likely that Trump will take the extreme step of firing Mueller. “We strongly believe that firing the Special Counsel would represent a brazen attempt by the President to shield himself and his associates from the legal consequences of the Mueller investigation. It would also provide yet more convincing evidence that his campaign was guilty of illegally coordinating with a foreign power in order to influence the results of a presidential election,” the letter said. “We therefore urge you to put partisan politics aside and issue a statement expressing your support for Mueller and clarifying what actions you will take in the event that he is dismissed or his investigation is disrupted.” The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. Dear Speaker Ryan: Following the indictment of President Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, we are concerned that the President may seek to dismiss Special Counsel Robert Mueller or otherwise interfere with the inquiry in order to protect himself, members of his family, or senior officials in his administration. To deter the President from considering such an extreme step, we write to strongly urge you to issue a statement supporting Mueller’s leadership of the investigation and specifying what steps you will take in the event that the President fires him or undermines his investigation. As you know, Mueller is leading an independent investigation into ties between the Trump-Pence campaign and the Russian government. He was appointed by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on May 17th following the President’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey, who was conducting a separate investigation into possible collusion by high-ranking Trump-Pence campaign officials with Russia. While the Administration initially offered multiple conflicting explanations for Comey's dismissal, President Trump subsequently confirmed that Comey was forced from office in order to block the Russia probe, explaining: “When I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, ‘You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story.’” In light of Manafort’s indictment and a June 14th report in the Washington Post that President Trump is personally under investigation for obstruction of justice by Mueller's office, we fear that he may once again seek to obstruct an investigation into his campaign by firing its leader. Already, the Administration has attempted to discredit the work of Mueller and his expert legal team, variously describing the investigation as a “fishing expedition,” a “witch hunt,” and a “hoax,” in addition to questioning its costs. We strongly believe that firing the Special Counsel would represent a brazen attempt by the President to shield himself and his associates from the legal consequences of the Mueller investigation. It would also provide yet more convincing evidence that his campaign was guilty of illegally coordinating with a foreign power in order to influence the results of a presidential election. We therefore urge you to put partisan politics aside and issue a statement expressing your support for Mueller and clarifying what actions you will take in the event that he is dismissed or his investigation is disrupted. Thank you for your attention to this request. Sincerely, ###
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement in response to the indictments of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his business associate Rick Gates: “Today’s charges against Paul Manafort and Rick Gates are a clear indication of the seriousness of special counsel Mueller’s investigation. “Mueller must be able to continue this investigation to its conclusion without any meddling by President Trump or his administration. If President Trump fires Mueller, that would be clear obstruction of justice – an impeachable offense. “Republicans in Congress need to make clear what the consequences will be for Donald Trump if he fires Mueller or stands in the way of a full and independent investigation.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) wrote to President Trump urging him to disclose internal documents and communications related to the firing of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. The letter follows an October 12th story in the Washington Post detailing the intense interest shown by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in securing the release of businessman Reza Zarrab, who was being prosecuted by Bharara. The Post report notes that prominent supporters of President Trump, including General Michael Flynn and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, were paid by the Turkish government to lobby on its behalf and that Giuliani had contacted Bharara to discuss the case. Given that Bharara was fired despite personal assurances from Trump that he would be allowed to remain in his position, these relationships raise urgent questions about whether his dismissal was made at the behest of Turkish officials or individuals paid to lobby on behalf of the Republic of Turkey. “When you dismissed Mr. Bharara, we were surprised and disappointed that you chose to expel from office such an experienced, talented, and dedicated public servant, especially in light of earlier assurances that he would be allowed to stay on in his position,” the letter said. “Now, the Post’s reporting raises serious questions about the role that Mr. Zarrab’s case – and related lobbying by supporters of your campaign and Turkish government officials – had in Mr. Bharara’s dismissal…Simply put, if Mr. Bharara was dismissed at the request of a campaign associate or White House official acting as an agent of a foreign government – or if he was fired at the request of a foreign official – Congress and the American people have a right to know.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. Dear Mr. President: Next month, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York will commence trial for Reza Zarrab, a Turkish national charged with money laundering and fraud. We write regarding an alarming report in the Washington Post that this case—a key source of tension between the United States and Turkey—may have been connected to your decision to fire respected U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, who was leading the prosecution. When you dismissed Mr. Bharara, we were surprised and disappointed that you chose to expel from office such an experienced, talented, and dedicated public servant, especially in light of earlier assurances that he would be allowed to stay on in his position. Your Administration subsequently did little to explain how and why you came to the decision to abruptly reverse course and fire him. Now, the Post’s reporting raises serious questions about the role that Mr. Zarrab’s case – and related lobbying by supporters of your campaign and Turkish government officials – had in Mr. Bharara’s dismissal. Your first National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn, lied about having acted as a foreign agent on behalf of the Turkish government. Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a vocal supporter and campaign surrogate, joined the legal team defending Mr. Zarrab in March and was in communication with Mr. Bharara regarding Mr. Zarrab’s case as early as a month before his termination. Further, around the same time that Mr. Bharara was fired, Mr. Giuliani lobbied your Department of Justice on Mr. Zarrab’s behalf. These entanglements create the distinct and troubling appearance that Mr. Bharara’s dismissal may have been connected to his prosecution of Mr. Zarrab. In order to ensure full transparency and public accountability, we request all official communications between the White House and the Department of Justice concerning your decision to fire Mr. Bharara as U.S. Attorney. In addition, we request copies of all emails, call transcripts, meeting notes, or other materials that may contain a record of discussions that relate to the rationale for Mr. Bharara’s firing or his handling of the case against Mr. Zarrab. Simply put, if Mr. Bharara was dismissed at the request of a campaign associate or White House official acting as an agent of a foreign government – or if he was fired at the request of a foreign official – Congress and the American people have a right to know. We appreciate your full cooperation in this matter. Sincerely, ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump will declare Iran to be out of compliance with the Iran nuclear deal: “Though imperfect, the Iran deal is an important tool that until now has taken the Iranian nuclear threat off the table. “All evidence points to the fact that Iran has so far complied with the agreement. Just last week, the Secretary of Defense told me that he believes Iran is in compliance, in an open hearing. None of the other signatories to the Deal – including our closest allies – believe Iran to have violated its terms. President Trump stands alone in this misinformed belief. “To unring this bell, I look forward to working with more sober minds in Congress – Adam Smith, Mac Thornberry, Eliot Engel, Ed Royce, and others, of both parties – who have the power to salvage the Iran deal by not reimposing sanctions on an evil regime that is nevertheless, by all accounts, keeping up its end of the bargain. The stability of the Middle East and our credibility as a nation are at stake. “It’s now up to Congress to save this deal. The alternatives are a nuclear Iran, an isolated United States, a war with Iran, or all of the above. That is no choice at all.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement in response to news reports that President Trump will cut off the Cost-Sharing Reduction payments required under the Affordable Care Act: “Instead of working to make health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans, President Trump is yet again proving that the only people he cares about are himself and those who are as wealthy as he is. Trump’s mean-spirited and spiteful decision to cut off cost-sharing reduction payments means that millions of Americans will now be unable to afford the basic care they need to keep their families healthy. “After months of false starts, President Trump and Republican congressional leadership have been unable to put forth a workable plan to improve our health care system. Instead, they have released a series of cruel plans that will rip health care away from millions of hardworking Americans and increase costs for those lucky enough to retain their health insurance. “It’s time for my Republican colleagues in Congress to stop doing the bidding of Donald Trump and instead sit down with Democrats and have a real conversation about how to defend the health and financial security of our constituents.” ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Coffman (R-CO), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Don Bacon (R-NE) and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), in a strong bipartisan effort, have introduced H. J.Res. 118, a new Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF), to provide clear Congressional authorization guidelines for the use of military force. “The threats we face today are far different than those we faced over a decade ago, and this legislation reflects Congress’s Constitutional role in authorizing the use of military force against terrorist organizations,” said Coffman. The purpose of an AUMF is to update and clearly define the authority the President has to pursue military action against hostile actors. The last AUMFs were enacted against the backdrop of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the events preceding the Iraq War 16 years ago. The updated AUMF would authorize the use of the U.S. Armed Forces for five years against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and any persons associated with these groups, but would specifically prohibit use of military force against nations without additional authorization from Congress. “For too long, Congress has allowed our armed forces to be used with ever more tenuous links to a vague and obsolete Authorization of Military Force. This bill would refocus our efforts against terrorism and prevent the unauthorized use of our military against other countries or people,” said Gallego. Specifically, this AUMF also requires the President to submit a set of regular reports to Congress on the progress of ongoing conflicts, contains a 5-year sunset clause, and provides for a full replacement of the previous AUMF. The new AUMF also makes clear the use of force against other persons, entities, or nations will require a further act of Congress. “Article One of the Constitution bestows on Congress the authority to declare war and Congress needs to do its job,” said Bacon. “Our military must know it has the support of the American citizens we represent and that support is reflected by Congress debating and voting on the use of lethal military force.” In an October 3, 2017, House Armed Services Committee Hearing, the sitting Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, stated the following in support of a new AUMF, “And as far as the AUMF goes, my point is that we need the unity of the American government and with the Congress involved that brings the unity of the American people to this fight… I think there has got to be -- the U.S. Congress has got to embrace this as our fight. We're all in this…” “Both the 2001 authorization for use of military force following the 9/11 attacks and the 2002 authorization for use of military force against Iraq are outdated and need to be replaced. In order to best meet the current national security interests of our country, Congress must pass a new and narrow authorization focused on the threat posed by al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and ISIS,” said Panetta. “With this bipartisan legislation, we can meet our obligation to provide our service members with clear guidance as they fight to keep us safe. We can also provide our constituents the assurance that, no matter who our commander-in-chief is, Congress will assert its constitutional authority to define the use of our military force around the world.” H.J. Res. 118, the “Authorization for use of Military Force against Al-Qaeda, The Taliban, and ISIS” will now be referred to the appropriate committee for legislative consideration. You can read a copy of the new, bipartisan, AUMF here.
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced the Restore Veterans’ Compensation Act of 2016, legislation that would prevent the federal government from recouping separation pay from veterans who later qualify for VA disability benefits. The bill also makes other changes to the Department of Defense’s recoupment policies to make them fairer to veterans. Many service members qualify for separation pay when they depart the military—it’s a form of compensation for those with more than six years of service who meet reenlistment requirements but are not allowed to reenlist. It’s also used to incentivize service members to depart the military when the Pentagon is working to downsize the force. Unfortunately, under current law, veterans are required to pay back separation pay if they later become eligible for VA disability benefits or DOD retirement pay. The Restore Veterans’ Compensation Act bill would: No longer allow for the recoupment of separation pay from veterans who later become eligible for VA disability benefits because the two compensate for different things—workplace injuries (disability benefits) versus time served (separation pay); Ensure retirees repay the net amount of separation pay instead of the gross amount to prevent the federal government from recouping more than the veteran received; and, Change the recoupment rate to 25 percent of a veterans’ paycheck instead of the current 40 percent. “As a Marine Corps combat veteran, I believe it’s manifestly unfair that veterans who receive VA disability benefits face the unwarranted recoupment of their separation pay,” said Rep. Gallego. “They are completely unrelated – VA disability benefits compensate for workplace injuries while separation pay compensates for time served. This policy simply makes no sense and Congress has a responsibility to our brave veterans to fix it.” “When Americans sign up to protect our country, we make a commitment to honor and support their service – but for nearly 25,000 veterans that promise has been broken. Over $400 million in disability benefits have been withheld or even taken back from veterans to ‘make up’ for their separation pay, causing military families financial insecurity. I am proud to partner with my colleague Representative Gallego to make right on this promise and to give our veterans the compensation they deserve for the sacrifices they’ve made,” said Rep. DeSaulnier. “This is an injustice! Right now, an honorable veteran can be forced to return large portions of his or her separation pay if found eligible for VA disability benefits or military retirement pay. These are completely separate payments, and our courageous veterans should not be shortchanged for being injured in the line of duty,” said Rep. Jones. “Thank you Represenatives Gallego and DeSaulnier for introducing legislation to put an end to this disparity.” ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan: “The Trump administration’s decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a reckless step backward and a disappointing abdication of our responsibility to address a worsening climate crisis. Scott Pruitt’s actions mean that millions of Americans will be exposed to more pollution, and many regions of the United States will face the prospect of serious economic effects from climate change. “This wildly irresponsible decision comes just as we are experiencing firsthand the devastating effects of climate change in the form of three powerful hurricanes. The people of Florida, Texas, Louisiana and Puerto Rico are witnessing how extreme weather puts lives at risk and grinds local economies to a halt. We can only expect much more of the same if we don’t take strong steps that will put us on a safer path for future generations. “Our children and our grandchildren deserve to inherit a cleaner planet and a healthier environment. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee to do everything we can to stop the Trump administration’s anti-environmental agenda.” ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee entitled, “US Defense Strategy in South Asia,” Secretary of Defense James Mattis was asked by Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) about whether Iran is currently in compliance with the Iran nuclear deal, officially titled the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Mattis replied in the affirmative and indicated that the Intelligence Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) concur with his assessment. Mattis’ statement is significant in light of President Trump’s determination to revisit the agreement with Iran, a pact he denounced in a speech before the United Nations as “an embarrassment to the United States.” President Trump has until October 15th to certify Iran’s continued compliance with the JCPOA, but has strongly suggested that he may refuse to do so. “Secretary Mattis’ testimony today should serve as a direct rebuttal to President Trump if he tries to argue ahead of the October 15th deadline that Iran isn’t complying with the nuclear deal,” said Rep. Gallego, a Marine Corps veteran of the Iraq War. “While the JCPOA certainly isn’t perfect, pulling out now will significantly increase the risk of deadly conflict in the Middle East. Simply put, failing to uphold our end of this agreement will either lead to a nuclear Iran, a war with Iran, or both. Any of these outcomes should be deeply troubling to our military and the American people.” Video of the exchange between Rep. Gallego and Sec. Mattis can be seen here. A full transcript is below: REP. RUBEN GALLEGO: This question is for Secretary Mattis. In your opinion, is Iran compliant with the JCPOA? SEC. MATTIS: I believe they fundamentally are. There have been certainly some areas where they were not, temporarily in that regard. But overall, our intelligence community believes that they have been compliant, and the IAEA also says so. RG: As a follow up to that, Secretary Mattis, will you be recommending to President Trump that we continue working through the JCPOA to contain Iran’s nuclear capability? MATTIS: We are working that right now. There are -- if you look -- we have two different issues. One is the JCPOA and one is what Congress has passed. And those two are distinct, but integral with each other. As you look at what the Congress has laid out – [it’s] a somewhat different definition of what's in our best interest. And therein lies, I think, the need for us to look at these distinct but integral issues the way the president has directed. RG: Thank you Secretary Mattis. If there is going to be any change in the status of our participation in JCPOA, especially if it involves the interpretation of what we in Congress passed in terms of sanctions against Iran outside the JCPOA, will you come back and inform and talk to us? Because I believe many of us voted for Iran sanctions outside the JCPOA with the understanding that they were not going to be linked. MATTIS: Well I think that this would probably be most appropriate by the Secretary of State, and I would follow him up here. I think that our diplomacy – the president and the Secretary of State, I think, have the lead on that. But once a decision is made – and I will be in on the decision, I'll give input, of course – I'm always willing to come up and talk in hearing or in private. ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Today, House Republicans could have taken action on the bipartisan DREAM Act, preventing the deportation of patriotic young people who want to make positive contributions to our society and our economy. “They could have held a serious discussion on the gun violence epidemic in our country, and ways we can act together to prevent more families from enduring the pain we see right now in Las Vegas. “They could have found ways to help provide relief to the 3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico whose lives and livelihoods are still at risk nearly two weeks after Hurricane Maria. “Instead, they decided to hold yet another vote to attack women’s health care and chip away at a woman’s right to choose – this time, pushing a blanket ban on all abortions after 20 weeks with no meaningful exception to protect a woman’s health. The bill requires rape victims to jump through hoops in order to obtain an abortion, and threatens doctors with fines or imprisonment for providing critically-needed and constitutionally protected care to their patients. “Not only is H.R. 36 unconstitutional, it is a thinly veiled attempt by the GOP to stifle a woman’s right to consult with her doctor and make medical care decisions – sometimes difficult ones – that will protect her health and future fertility. “The GOP agenda is out of touch with the needs and priorities of the American people. It’s time for them to reset their course – and my Democratic colleagues and I are here and ready to work with them when they do.” ###
09.29.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Tom Price's resignation isn't enough. “There is a culture of corruption in the Trump administration. Whether it’s unqualified hacks like Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spending taxpayer money on private jet flights in the Caribbean, or otherwise qualified longtime public servants like David Shulkin going to Wimbledon and taking a European river cruise on the people’s dime, the dishonesty and depravity is pervasive. “It’s no wonder that administration officials feel no sense of ethics and personal or fiscal responsibility when Donald Trump is at the helm. Donald Trump has made a career out of swindling hardworking people and trampling anyone in his path to get to the top. He has flaunted his lavish lifestyle and long ago abandoned any pretense of humility. “Donald Trump only cares about Donald Trump – it should be no surprise that other administration officials are following his example and putting themselves and their own interests above those of the government and the American people. Donald Trump has created an environment in which corruption and bad behavior are encouraged and rewarded. “I am fed up, and the American people are fed up. It’s time to bring back government for the people instead of government for the elite and powerful friends of Donald Trump.” ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Jamie Raskin (MD-08) and Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) called on Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price to resign from his position after reports that he used government funds to pay for expensive private jets for official travel, bypassing cost-effective alternatives and wasting taxpayer dollars. “At a minimum, the American people expect cabinet secretaries to lead with integrity, accept accountability, and use public resources responsibly,” they wrote in a letter to Price. “In light of your breach of the public trust, we write to urge you to do the right thing and immediately tender your resignation.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here. --- Dear Secretary Price: Earlier this month it emerged that since assuming office as Secretary of Health and Human Services, you have routinely made use of expensive private jets for official travel, bypassing cost-effective alternatives and wasting hundreds of thousands of tax dollars. At a minimum, the American people expect cabinet secretaries to lead with integrity, accept accountability, and use public resources responsibly. In light of your breach of the public trust, we write to urge you to do the right thing and immediately tender your resignation. On September 19th, POLITICO reported that you had chartered a private jet on several short official trips, including a $25,000 private flight from Washington, DC to Philadelphia and back – a trip that would at most cost $725 round-trip on a commercial airline. It has since come to light that you have taken more than 24 privately chartered flights in your time as Secretary, costing the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) more than $400,000. This represents a gross misuse of public funds that could have been spent on efforts to improve the health and well-being of the American people. Unfortunately, this was not the first time that you have exhibited such poor judgment as a public official. We were greatly alarmed to learn earlier this year that you abused your position as a Member of Congress by introducing legislation to benefit your own personal investments and – even more egregiously – by trading more than $300,000 in health care industry stocks based on insider information. The American people deserve cabinet secretaries who place the public good above their own private interests. For these reasons, we urge you to immediately announce your resignation from the Office of Secretary of Health and Human Services. Sincerely, ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), Darren Soto (FL-09) and José E. Serrano (NY-15) wrote to Secretary of Defense James Mattis urging him to provide additional military resources to the Puerto Rico disaster response effort. The letter details the calamitous conditions on the island and encourages the Department of Defense to bring more of its unique capabilities to bear on the crisis in order to alleviate the suffering of the 3.4 million U.S. citizens who call Puerto Rico home. In addition, the four Members of Congress recommend that Mattis consider designating a high-ranking military leader to coordinate the DOD response, consistent with the appointment of Lt. Gen. Russel Honore after Hurricane Katrina. “[W]e remain deeply concerned by reports of harrowing conditions in Puerto Rico and urge you – in coordination with the Governor of Puerto Rico, FEMA and other federal and local government partners – to rapidly deploy additional assets and resources to the island to assist in meeting the urgent needs of the 3.4 million American citizens living there,” the letter said. “With so many American lives in peril, we strongly believe every available tool at our government’s disposal should be brought to bear on this crisis.” The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. --- Dear Secretary Mattis: We appreciate the contributions of our military to disaster relief operations in the Caribbean following Hurricanes Irma and Maria. However, we remain deeply concerned by reports of harrowing conditions in Puerto Rico and urge you—in coordination with the Governor of Puerto Rico, FEMA and other federal and local government partners—to rapidly deploy additional assets and resources to the island to assist in meeting the urgent needs of the 3.4 million American citizens living there. As Admiral Tidd has stated, our military possesses “unique capabilities and the speed and flexibility that are needed most in the critical, early stages of disaster relief operations.” Accordingly, we understand that Joint Task Force Leeward Islands deployed to Puerto Rico on September 9th and has assisted local and federal authorities with water purification, medical evacuations, damage assessments and other vital tasks in the wake of the two massive storms that struck the island earlier this month. In addition, your Department is reportedly providing mobile communications systems and supplies of diesel fuel to assist the people of Puerto Rico at this extremely trying time. Unfortunately, despite these efforts and those undertaken by your partners in recent days, the people of Puerto Rico are enduring severe shortages of basic necessities, including gasoline, food and water. Three million people were without electricity this weekend and over 90 percent of the island currently lacks cell service. In addition to catastrophic flooding and property damage, countless roadways remain impassable, cutting off assistance to entire communities, while whole municipalities have no access to cash to pay for life-sustaining supplies. Perhaps most troubling, hospitals are now reportedly running out of fuel and running water. In short, as the Governor of Puerto Rico, Ricardo Rosselló, described, “this is without a doubt the biggest catastrophe in modern history for Puerto Rico.” At the same time, FEMA’s resources have been strained by the impact of three significant hurricanes in a matter of weeks and Governor Rosselló has called for additional help, including helicopters, from DOD to address the island’s mounting transportation and policing challenges. In light of the growing human suffering in Puerto Rico, we urge your Department to deploy additional resources to meet this request and other outstanding needs on the island. With so many American lives in peril, we strongly believe every available tool at our government’s disposal should be brought to bear on this crisis. We note that a three-star general officer was designated to coordinate military efforts after Hurricane Katrina and encourage you to consider making a similar appointment. Again, the unique capabilities of the United States military are urgently needed at this critical juncture and we look forward to supporting your contributions to the federal disaster response in Puerto Rico. Sincerely, ###
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement following President Trump’s speech to the United Nations. “President Trump once again delivered an embarrassing performance with the whole world watching. But more than his various cringe-worthy statements, it was his continuing failure to project the kind of calm, steady leadership that the international community has come to expect from American presidents that was most alarming. “As a veteran, Trump’s speech only served to heighten my grave concerns that he could steer the United States into war through bluster or sheer incompetence. “At the United Nations, the President implied that he would pull out of the Iran Deal, despite the fact that the agreement has unquestionably slowed or stopped Iranian progress toward a nuclear weapon. Scrapping the deal would isolate us from the world community, encourage Iran to seek a nuclear breakout, and prime the Middle East for a massive conflict. Without the deal, Trump is choosing a nuclear Iran, a war with Iran, or both. “The President also fundamentally misunderstands what a war with North Korea would entail. There is no ‘winning’ a war with Pyongyang. Destruction of the North is within our power, but doing so would mean the deaths of millions of South Koreans, Japanese, and yes, American troops and civilians in South Korea and perhaps farther away. It could – and likely would – mean war with China. That is no ‘victory.’ “Simply put, every time President Trump opens his mouth, America’s leadership and global standing diminishes.” ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) wrote to Acting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Thomas Homan demanding answers in the wake of reports that the agency regularly obtained guest lists from two Phoenix-area Motel 6 locations and used that information to question and detain individuals believed to be undocumented. The letter calls on Homan to expressly prohibit the practice of combing hotel records to identify suspects and requests information about how and why this misguided tactic was employed, including whether guests at other hotels have been similarly targeted. “Randomly accosting Latino hotel guests is just the latest outrage from an agency empowered by President Trump to deport mothers and family breadwinners,” said Rep. Gallego. “We deserve to know who signed-off on this outrageous tactic and whether it’s being used by ICE agents in other parts of the country. Targeting discount hotels is a move straight from the Joe Arpaio playbook and it provides fresh evidence that it’s time for Congress to rein-in Donald Trump’s unaccountable, out-of-control immigration authorities.” The full text of the letter is below. A signed electronic copy can be found here. Dear Acting Director Homan: We were extremely concerned to read reports, subsequently confirmed by the company, that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents have been soliciting lists of guests at Motel 6 hotels in Arizona for the purpose of conducting enforcement actions. We strongly condemn this practice and urge you to expressly forbid the random screening and harassment of hotel guests by your personnel in the future. Specifically, news reports indicate that ICE agents have been obtaining the names and room numbers of guests at two Phoenix-area hotels each morning at 5AM. Individuals staying at these hotels whom your agency suspected of being undocumented were then visited by agents – in many cases without a warrant – and subjected to questioning and possible arrest. This tactic raises a number of grave concerns. It obviously has the potential to deter tourism to the State of Arizona, potentially leading to the loss of jobs and revenue. More importantly, instead of targeting your limited resources at individuals who pose a genuine threat to public safety, it appears that agents in Arizona have been operating an indiscriminant dragnet, reportedly aided by hotel managers. If true, this clearly demonstrates a preference on the part of ICE's leadership in Arizona for convenience and efficiency at the expense of due process or adherence to sensible enforcement priorities. It also raises alarming questions about ICE’s willingness to engage in racial profiling in the process of identifying and questioning suspects based on the Motel 6 guest lists. Further, it’s important to note that Motel 6 provides short-term accommodations to survivors of domestic violence and to people attending medical appointments at area hospitals. Consistent with our oversight responsibilities, we urgently request a full accounting of ICE actions connected to these reports, including: · The number of individuals apprehended at the two hotels in question and the disposition of their cases; · Whether you or other ICE leaders in Washington were informed of the practice of combing hotel guest lists for undocumented immigrants and signed off on the use of this tactic; · Whether this approach has been – or is currently – employed elsewhere; and, · Any ICE guidance or memoranda pertaining to the use of so-called “knock-and-talk” operations at homes, businesses or hotels. Again, we urge you in the strongest possible terms to formally prohibit the random screening of hotel guests for the purpose of identifying suspected undocumented immigrants and to provide a clearer picture of precisely how and why this misguided tactic was employed. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Pramila Jayapal Member of Congress ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the statement below following the administration's announcement that President Trump has decided to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, an initiative that granted protection from deportation and work authorization to Dreamers. Gallego also filed an amendment to the House GOP's appropriations package, scheduled for consideration this week, which would block the deportation of these undocumented young people. “Among the litany of deeply misguided decisions that Donald Trump has made over his first seven months in office, this one stands out for its callousness and its cruelty. I've met dozens of DREAMers, both in Phoenix and across the country. They've served as interns in my office. I know their strength and their spirit. I admire their patriotism and their determination to give back. They believe in our country and they deserve a government that believes in them. "The DACA program represents the very best of America -- our generosity, our openness, our compassion. On the other hand, this decision represents the very worst of Donald Trump -- his pettiness, his selfishness, and his inability to see beyond his own narrow self-interest. "Trump's uncontrollable impulse to indulge the most hateful elements of our society knows no bounds. It wasn't enough to equivocate as Nazis marched in Charlottesville or to pardon a proudly racist Sheriff in Arizona; he felt compelled to go one enormous step further by exposing 800,000 Dreamers to deportation from the only country that most have ever known. "To knowingly inflict pain on others for personal or political gain is the worst sin an American leader can commit. The question now is whether Republicans in Congress will condemn this transgression or attempt to explain it away. Will they work with Democrats to protect Dreamers or will they provide the Administration with political cover and more funding to deport them? Will they see this decision as an act of cruelty or as a political opportunity to exploit, a useful means of extracting concessions like harmful spending cuts or a new border wall? "While we fight to restore DACA, secure citizenship for the Dreamers, and pass comprehensive immigration reform, the very least that Speaker Ryan can do would be to allow a simple up-or-down vote on my amendment to protect them from deportation while Congress seeks a solution. "For the sake of these young immigrants and our country, we should all hope that Paul Ryan will finally find the moral courage to stand up to Trump." ###
08.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), issued the following statement in response to the protests and police actions following President Trump’s rally held in Phoenix: “Thousands of peaceful demonstrators gathered on Tuesday afternoon for several hours to exercise their first amendment right to assemble and express their freedom of speech. Towards the end of the rally, however, the situation escalated quickly. I immediately called Mayor Greg Stanton to request a full and transparent investigation and to provide the community a detailed account of the events that led to the actions from the Police Department. I also call on the Mayor and the City Council to hold a community meeting to seek input from the community to assist in the investigation. The protest organizers worked extremely hard to maintain peace and order. We owe it to the community to understand what happened and ensure that we can continue to cultivate trust and accountability during these times of increased tensions.” ####
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a Marine Corps combat veteran and Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s speech on Afghanistan: “President Trump’s remarks did not allay my grave concerns about the future direction of the war in Afghanistan. Brave young Americans have fought and died in large numbers in that country for almost 16 years. Though the time has come for a plan to bring our troops home, the President’s proposal represents an open-ended commitment with no obvious end in sight. We’re repeating the mistakes of previous administrations. “Tonight, the American people should have heard a detailed, realistic strategy with achievable objectives and measurable benchmarks. Instead, we got only vague promises and wishful thinking. A plan that took this dysfunctional administration 7 months to finalize is surprisingly short on new thinking and new ideas and will serve only to perpetuate a dangerous status quo. “Specifically, given the fact that US forces in Afghanistan numbered more than 60,000 just five years ago, I am highly skeptical that the relatively minor augmentation of US forces that the President announced will make a meaningful difference. I agree with the testimony of Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, who stated earlier this year that, ‘…the political and security situation in Afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through 2018, even with a modest increase in military assistance by the United States and its partners.’ "Additionally, the President's unwillingness to adequately staff or fund the State Department will hobble our efforts to secure a political solution and work cooperatively with our allies, like Pakistan, our partners, like India, and our adversaries, like Iran -- all of whom have cards to play in Afghanistan. “Moving forward, I expect Secretary Mattis to fully brief the House Armed Services Committee on the crucial details of the proposal that the President neglected to provide this evening. We can’t afford to continue the confused bumbling that got us to this point. More broadly, on behalf of the people of the 7th District of Arizona and the wider United States, I will continue to insist that permanent, perpetual war is no longer acceptable. Congress and the general public must do the same." ####
08.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a Marine Corps combat veteran and Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement explaining what he hopes President Trump will tell the American people tonight when he addresses the nation regarding America’s future course in Afghanistan: “Brave young Americans have fought and died in large numbers in Afghanistan for almost 16 years. Over that time, three Presidents have struggled to secure our objectives. None have succeeded and now it appears that thousands more of our brave servicemen and women will be sent into harm’s way by President Trump. “Tonight, the American people need to hear a clear plan. We need clear-eyed, reasonable goals and a strategy for achieving them that doesn’t depend on wishful thinking regarding the goodwill of the corrupt government in Kabul or the magnanimity of a self-interested Pakistan. We need to hear achievable military objectives, not ambiguous benchmarks and empty buzzwords. We need to hear that we will not be engaged in perpetual war in Afghanistan, and we need to hear that the President is wholly dedicated to the Nation’s best interests, rather than his own. Finally, and most importantly, we need to hear when and how Trump intends to bring our troops home. “Perpetual war wreaks havoc on our credibility, our capacity to deal with other threats, and the long-term health of our military. It’s time for a new direction. President Trump owes it to our brave men and women in uniform to do more than just kick the can down the road.”
08.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Hoy, los Congresistas Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) y Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) enviaron una carta al presidente Donald Trump, instándole a no emitir un perdón presidencial para Joe Arpaio, el ex sherif del condado de Maricopa. Esta semana, Fox News informó que el president dijo que estaba “considerando seriamente” el pérdon para Arpaio, quien fue condenado por desacato criminal por ignorar la orden de un juez de detener las patrullas de tráfico dirigidas a sospechosos de inmigrantes indocumentados. Arpaio enfrenta hasta seis meses de prisión. Su sentencia está programada para comenzar el 5 de octubre. El texto completo de la carta está abajo. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) dijo, “Las políticas de inmigración de Joe Arpaio fueron una violación de la justicia motivada por el racismo. Arpaio pisoteó los derechos civiles de miles de personas en Maricopa, alentó a sus diputados a atacar a comunidades y así provocó temor entre gente buena y trabajadora – incluso después de que un juez federal le ordenara detener estas practices ilegales e inconstitucionales. Arpaio no merece un perdón presidencial y no debería de recibir uno solo para comprarle puntos extras a Donald Trump con sus partidarios más racistas.” Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) dijo, “Es un ataque profundo a nuestra democracia por Donald Trump otorgar, o incluso considerar darle al ex sherif Arpaio un perdón presidencial. Durante décadas, las comunidades de todo el condado de Maricopa y Arizona fueron víctimas de sus prácticas racistas. Arpaio tuvo un desprecio total por nuestro sistema judicial y hasta hoy no acepta responsabilidad ni siquiera reconoce sus malas acciones. Todo eso no merece ningún perdón presidencial. Que Donald Trump le conceda clemencia, otorga a individuos y grupos racistas, llenos de odio y extremistas un respaldo inequívoco en continuar con sus peligrosas prácticas.” Rep. Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) said, “Es imprescindible que una sociedad mantenga a los líderes electos al más alto nivel de responsabilidad. Y cuando sean condenados por crímines y pierdan la confianza del público, deben enfrentar su castigo. Como ex agente de la ley, el abuso de Joe Arpaio y la explotación de su poder para atacar a las comunidades vulnerables me parece es horrifico y daña la reputación de nuestros valientes oficiales en Arizona quienes cumplen con su promesa de mantenernos seguros todos los días. Exhorto al presidente Trump a cumplir su compromiso con la ley y el orden y no perdonar a Joe Arpaio, a quien el pueblo del condado de Maricopa confió para hacer cumplir nuestras leyes, por los crímines de los que ha sido condenado.” --- Estimado Presidente Trump: Estamos gravemente preocupados por los informes que usted está considerando un perdón para Joe Arpaio. El ex sherif del condado de Maricopa fue declarado culpable de un delito grave y debe pagar cualquier multa y cumplir su condena en su totalidad. Le instamos en los términos más firmes posibles que no le conceda al Sr. Arpaio alivio de las penas que merece por su conducta ilegal y el descarado abuso de la confianza pública. El mes pasado, Arpaio fue declarado culpable de desacato al tribunal tras su decisión de violar la orden de un juez que obligaba a su departamento a poner fin a sus acciones inconstitucionales. Vale la pena señalar que las propias declaraciones de Arpaio desempeñaron un papel clave en la convicción, ya que el ex sherif había declarado repetidamente su intención de burlar la ley al continuar deteniendo ilegalmente a los latinos en nuestra comunidad. Como el juez en el caso escribió: "El acusado no sólo renunció a la responsabilidad, sino que anunció al mundo y a sus subordinados que iba a continuar el negocio como siempre, sin importar quién dijera lo contrario." Desafortunadamente, este flagrante desprecio por la ley es consistente con un patrón más amplio de prácticas policiales abusivas bajo su liderazgo. De hecho, durante su mandato, los latinos en el condado de Maricopa tenían hasta nueve veces más probabilidades de ser detenidos que los no latinos. Su departamento también estaba decidido a violar sistemáticamente los derechos de los latinos por parte del Departamento de Justicia en 2011 y por un juez federal en 2013. Creemos que los funcionarios públicos deben ser responsabilizados cuando cometen delitos y que el imperio de la ley debe aplicarse con imparcialidad, independientemente de lo poderosos que sean los amigos de un titular de la oficina. Al perdonar al Sr. Arpaio, uno de los primeros partidarios de su campaña, usted estaría enviando un mensaje claro de que sus aliados son inmunes a ser procesados. Y lo que es más importante, al perdonar a Arpaio de las consecuencias de sus acciones, estaría violando el principio americano básico de que aquellos que hacen cumplir nuestras leyes también deben respetarlas.. Una vez más, le instamos fuertemente que no conceda al Sr. Arpaio el alivio de las penas que ha incurrido justamente a través de su propia y repetida mala conducta. Sinceramente, ###
08.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) and Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) sent a letter to President Trump, urging him not to issue a pardon for former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. Earlier this week, Fox news reported that the President said that he was “seriously considering” issuing a pardon for Arpaio, who was convicted of criminal contempt for ignoring a judge’s order to stop traffic patrols targeting suspected undocumented immigrants. Arpaio faces up to six month’s imprisonment. His sentencing is scheduled for October 5. The full text of the letter is below. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) said, “Joe Arpaio’s immigration policies were a racially-motivated breach of justice. He trampled on civil rights and encouraged his deputies to sweep communities and provoke fear among good, hardworking people – even after a federal judge ordered him to stop these unlawful and unconstitutional practices. He shouldn’t be let off the hook for his crimes just to buy Donald Trump some bonus points with his most racist supporters.” Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) said, “It is a profound assault on our democracy for Donald Trump to grant, or even consider granting former Sheriff Arpaio a presidential pardon. For decades, communities across Maricopa county and Arizona were victimized by his racist practices. Arpaio held a total disregard for our judicial system and to this day fails to accept responsibility or even acknowledge his wrong-doings. All of that merits no presidential pardon. For Donald Trump to grant him leniency gives racist, hatred-filled, and extremist individuals and groups an unequivocal endorsement in continuing with their dangerous practices.” Rep. Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) said, “It is imperative for a society to hold elected leaders to the highest level of accountability, and when they are convicted of crimes and lose the trust of the public, they must face their punishment. As a former law enforcement officer, Joe Arpaio’s abuse and exploitation of his power to target vulnerable communities is beyond egregious and tarnishes the sworn duty of our brave officers across Arizona. I urge President Trump to stand by his commitment to law and order and not pardon Joe Arpaio, who was entrusted by the people of Maricopa County to enforce our laws, for the crimes of which he has been convicted.” --- Dear President Trump: We are gravely concerned by reports that you are considering a pardon for Joe Arpaio. The former Maricopa County Sheriff was convicted of a serious crime and should pay any fine and serve any sentence in full. We urge you in the strongest possible terms not to grant Mr. Arpaio relief from the penalties he deservedly faces for his illegal conduct and brazen abuse of the public trust. Last month, Arpaio was found guilty of criminal contempt of court following his decision to violate a judge’s order compelling his department to cease its unconstitutional immigration enforcement actions. It is worth noting that Arpaio’s own statements played a key role in the conviction, as the former Sheriff had repeatedly declared his intention to flout the law by continuing to illegally detain Latinos in our community. As the judge in the case wrote, “Not only did Defendant abdicate responsibility, he announced to the world and to his subordinates that he was going to continue business as usual no matter who said otherwise.” Unfortunately, this blatant disregard for the law is consistent with a broader pattern of abusive policing practices under his leadership. Indeed, during his tenure, Latinos in Maricopa County were up to nine times more likely to be pulled over than non-Latinos. His department was also determined to have systematically violated the rights of Latinos by the Justice Department in 2011 and by a federal judge in 2013. We believe public officials should be held accountable when they commit crimes and that the rule of law should be applied fairly regardless of how powerful an office holder’s friends are. By pardoning Mr. Arpaio, an early supporter of your campaign, you would be sending a clear message that your allies are immune from prosecution. More importantly, by exempting Arpaio from the consequences of his actions, you would be violating the basic American principle that those who enforce our laws must also personally abide by them. Again, we strongly urge you not to grant Mr. Arpaio relief from penalties justly incurred through his own repeated, willful misconduct. Sincerely, ###
08.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement regarding reports that North Korea has successfully produced nuclear weapons for ballistic missile delivery: “It is now more important than ever that the United States and our allies maintain a strong and united front in our response to North Korea. The sanctions issued by the U.N. Security Council on Saturday are a good first step and demonstrate that further action by Kim Jong-un’s regime will be met with a concerted response. “President Trump’s warning that North Korean threats will be answered by ‘fire and fury’ is as irresponsible as it is alarming. Instead of threats and over-the-top rhetoric, we must aggressively pursue a smart long-term, comprehensive strategy to address the growing threats posed by the regime. Among the steps that we should immediately consider are further economic sanctions aimed at those countries that continue to trade with North Korea. This critical moment demands sound judgement, not the usual bluster from the Trump Administration. “Relatedly, it’s outrageous that President Trump has barely lifted a finger to nominate an Ambassador to South Korea or fill positions in the State Department that are charged with diplomacy and the defense of our nation. Trump must show that he takes the mounting crisis in North Korea seriously, and move rapidly to fill these critical national security positions with qualified, cool-headed leaders who will treat this situation with the gravity it warrants.” ###
08.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement on the Administration’s refusal to use Congressionally-appropriated funds for federal anti-propaganda programs. "Secretary Tillerson’s unwillingness to use $80 million in appropriated funds to combat Islamic terrorist, Iranian, and Russian propaganda is deeply irresponsible. The Global Engagement Center is a critical tool in our arsenal as we attempt to stop the flow of young recruits to terrorist activity and inoculate populations against the scourge of Putinist lies. There is no good reason for the Trump Administration to hobble an important part of the State Department’s efforts to stop terrorism and propaganda. This sop to Moscow comes at the same time as President Putin’s forced reduction of 755 personnel from the U.S. Embassy and Consulates in Russia. To date, we have neither seen nor heard objection to this action from President Trump, Secretary Tillerson, or any other senior Administration official. It is time for this Administration to either stand up to Vladimir Putin or reveal why it’s so important to cave to all of his demands. To address this Administration’s erratic and unsteady behavior, I will continue to work with colleagues in Congress to blunt and frustrate the President’s attempts to weaken our country’s defenses, foreign policy, institutions, and commitment to the rule of law. As a proud American, Marine, and public servant, I know that I will do my duty even if others shirk theirs.” ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresista Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) emitió la siguiente declaración sobre la situación en Venezuela: "El falso voto en Venezuela el domingo es un ejemplo de lo que puede pasar cuando las instituciones democráticas fallan una prueba básica de credibilidad con el pueblo y el mundo en general. “Espero que el Departamento de Estado y los Departamentos del Tesoro censuren y castiguen al gobierno de Maduro por acciones antidemocráticos como la que vimos el domingo. Las sanciones del Departamento del Tesoro a Maduro son un buen comienzo, pero la Administración también debe vigilar y castigar la violencia extrajudicial, las violaciones de los derechos humanos y la corrupción mientras considera más sanciones contra las personas, organizaciones gubernamentales y empresas venezolanas. Cada acto ilegítimo hace más probables las sanciones adicionales, incluyendo las exportaciones de petróleo de Venezuela. “Por último, exhorto al Presidente Maduro, a los servicios de seguridad, y la oposición a que presten atención a los sentimientos del Papa Francisco, los estados vecinos de Venezuela, y los líderes responsables de todo el mundo, y trabajen para resolver esta crisis pacíficamente. El conflicto civil no resolverá los problemas de Venezuela, al contrario, prolongará y profundizará la miseria de millones de inocentes.” ###
08.01.2017	Washington, DC – This morning, a U.S. federal district court found former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio guilty of criminal contempt for willful violation of a federal judge’s order to discontinue improper questioning and detention of individuals he suspected to be of undocumented status. Following the ruling, Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “With the District Court’s decision, Joe Arpaio’s controversial immigration policies have been exposed for what they are: a racially-motivated breach of justice.” “Joe Arpaio trampled on civil rights in service of a discriminatory anti-immigrant agenda. He encouraged deputies to sweep communities and improperly interrogate good, hardworking people who contribute to our communities – even after a federal court ordered him to halt these unlawful practices.” “It was alarming to say the least that Donald Trump campaigned with Joe Arpaio. Now under President Trump’s leadership, we are witnessing nothing less than the nationalization of Sheriff Joe Arpaio’s extreme approach to immigration enforcement. I will do everything I can to fight this.” ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement on the situation in Venezuela: "The sham vote in Venezuela on Sunday is an example of what can happen when democratic institutions fail a basic test of credibility with the people and the wider world. Violence and illegality during and after the vote, including the government’s arrest of opposition leaders Leopoldo López and Antonio Ledezma last night, will only compound the hunger, inflation, and a general crisis of confidence that President Maduro has brought on himself and imposed on the Venezuelan people. “Moving forward, I expect the State Department and Treasury Department to responsibly censure and punish the Maduro government for anti-democratic power grabs like the one we have seen since Sunday. The Treasury Department's designation of Maduro himself for sanctions is a good start, but the Administration must also watch for and punish extrajudicial violence, human rights violations, and corruption as it weighs further sanctions against Venezuelan individuals, government organizations, and businesses. Each illegitimate act makes further sanctions, including on oil exports from Venezuela, more likely. “Finally, I urge President Maduro, the security services, and the opposition to heed the sentiments of Pope Francis, Venezuela's neighboring states, and responsible leaders worldwide and work to resolve this crisis peacefully. Civil conflict will not solve Venezuela's problems, it will prolong and deepen the misery of millions of innocents." ###
07.31.2017	Washington, DC – The U.S. Air Force has announced that the Phoenix, Arizona branch of Honeywell International, Inc. has been awarded a $409 million contract for the multi-agency Next Generation Thermal, Power, and Controls (NGT-PAC) program. The contract is expected to last through 2024 and the funding will go towards the research and development of innovative technology and applied research in the areas of thermal, power, and controls requirements. Advancements made under this program will impact engines and other technology as it is integrated into future manned and unmanned air platforms. Congressman Gallego issued the following statement: “This $409 million contract will drive the development of technologies that will improve the safety, efficiency, and capability of Air Force systems, helping to shape the future of U.S. military avionics. I am thrilled that this important work will be done right here in Phoenix, Arizona.” ###
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill to strengthen sanctions against Russia, Iran and North Korea. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I just voted in favor of a sanctions bill that takes aim at three of our most dangerous adversaries – Iran, North Korea, and Russia. I was proud to join a large and bipartisan group of my colleagues to vote in favor of a bill that will penalize individuals and businesses in all three countries in a punitive and corrective effort. In the event that the President vetoes it, I will also vote to override his veto for the good of the national interest. “The mere fact that the President opposed this legislation before he saw that it was supported by an overwhelming – and veto proof – majority in both houses of Congress shows us how out-of-step this Administration is with our national security interests. The President wanted a free hand to withdraw sanctions on Russian oligarchs and state-controlled enterprises. He’s more concerned about buddying up to Putin – a man that ordered interference in our election last year, supports a murderous and immoral despot in the form of Bashar al-Assad, directed the illegal invasions of both Georgia and Ukraine, and threatens the security of our NATO allies. Now, the President will not be able to kowtow to despots for unknown or questionable reasons. “I hope that this bipartisan effort in defense of our clear national security interests emboldens Congressional Republicans to stand up to President Trump when he inevitably again shakes the confidence that all Americans deserve to have in their government.” ###
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and several House Democrats held a press conference calling on House Republican Leadership to reconsider using a self-executing rule to fund President Trump’s border wall. Using a deceptive legislative gimmick, House Republicans will add $1.6 billion in funding for the wall to a “minibus” funding bill, avoiding a clean up-or-down vote. Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus also sent a letter today to Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions urging him to allow the House to separately consider whether to fund the wall. “I’m proud to stand with Rep. Gallego and my colleagues in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus who are standing up against Republicans’ legislative gimmick to sneak funding for a border wall into their ‘minibus’ bill,” said Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer. “A border wall won’t do anything to make this country any safer, and wastes taxpayer money that would be better spent on strengthening our national security and promoting economic growth. Democrats will continue to oppose this ineffective wall.” “Not only is the border wall expensive and unnecessary, but Members of Congress who care deeply about our national defense shouldn’t be forced to decide between voting for the wall and voting to fund our military,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a Marine Corps veteran who fought in Iraq. “House Republicans are clearly embarrassed that they are stroking Trump’s ego by funding a dumb wall that we don’t need and can’t afford – and that’s why they are resorting to legislative gimmickry in order to avoid a clean up-or-down vote. That’s simply wrong. On such a momentous issue, the American people deserve to know where their elected representatives stand.” “A border wall like the one Republicans slipped into a military spending bill this week will not help, but only make a bad situation worse,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’s Immigration Task Force. “Forcing people to enter the black market because there is no way to go through our visa system means we will hear about smuggling tragedies like the one in Texas this weekend more often because we have failed to create and maintain a functioning immigration system.” “Republicans have taken a nonsensical approach by burying border wall funding in the national security-focused omnibus funding bill,” said Rep. Filemon Vela (TX-34). Voting against border wall funding will protect hard-working Americans from seeing their tax dollars wasted on a ruse to secure our border.” “This bill should be about providing critical funds to keep our service members safe, take care of our veterans and to support necessary defense programs that safeguard our national security; it should not be about helping President Trump keep a campaign promise that has no grounding in sense or reality,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31). “House Republicans’ reckless decision to force the American people to pay for a wall that does nothing to increase our security or solve the real problems facing our immigration system is both wasteful and counterproductive.” “Trump’s border wall will divide communities, separate families, and perpetuate fear and hate throughout immigrant communities around the nation,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). “I have stood strong and firm in my opposition to this dangerous precedent, including my push of an anti-wall bill as my first piece of legislation introduced in Congress, and today is no different. In their latest sneak attempt to push $1.6 billion dollars into the ‘minibus’ fiscal 2018 appropriations package in an effort to build this physical obstruction, now along the border near San Diego and in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, Republicans are failing to elevate our country and confidence at home and abroad. This bill isn’t about funding the military or improving our national security, it’s about the Republicans’ breach of transparency and trust to the American people by avoiding a clean up-or-down vote on a decision that will greatly impact us all.” ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – El martes por la noche, el Comité de Reglas de la Cámara de Representantes votó a favor de una regla que gobierna el debate sobre la Ley de Autorización de Defensa Nacional (NDAA) que eliminará inmediatamente una disposición defendida por el congresista Ruben Gallego (AZ-07). Esa disposición impediría que la administración de Trump desviara fondos del presupuesto de defensa para pagar la construcción de un nuevo muro fronterizo. Mediante el uso de este procedimiento parlamentario raro, los republicanos de la Cámara evitarán una votación limpia hacia arriba o hacia abajo sobre el tema. Lo hicieron aunque la disposición fue apoyada unánimemente por los miembros del Comité de Servicios Armados de la Cámara de Representantes durante la evaluación del panel el mes pasado. "Una vez más, Paul Ryan y los republicanos de la Cámara de Representantes están haciendo el trabajo sucio del Presidente Trump", dijo el representante Gallego, un veterano de la Infantería de Marina. "No tuvieron el coraje de oponerse a mi enmienda en la Comisión o en la Cámara de Representantes. En su lugar, los republicanos están recurriendo a trucos legislativos para hacer el trabajo sucio de Trump. Con esta regla de auto-ejecución están tratando de engañar al Congreso y el pueblo estadounidense. "Apenas cinco meses después de su administración, ya está muy claro que México no pagará por el muro fronterizo inútil de Trump. No debemos permitir que los recursos sean robados de nuestras tropas sólo para satisfacer el frágil ego de Trump." ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Late Tuesday night, the House Rules Committee voted out a rule governing debate on the National Defense Authorizing Act (NDAA) that – upon approval by the full House of Representatives – will immediately eliminate a provision championed by Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) blocking the Trump administration from diverting funds from the defense budget to pay for construction of a new border wall. By resorting to this rarely employed parliamentary procedure, House Republicans will avoid a clean up-or-down vote on the issue. The move comes despite the fact that the provision in question was unanimously supported by Members of the House Armed Services Committee during the panel’s mark up last month. “Once again, Speaker Ryan and the House Republicans are doing President Trump’s dirty work,” said Rep. Gallego, a Marine Corps veteran. “They didn’t have the courage to oppose my amendment in Committee or on the House floor. Instead, Republicans are resorting to legislative gimmickry to do Trump’s bidding. With this self-executing rule, they are attempting to slip one past Congress and the American people. “Just five months into his administration, it’s already abundantly clear that Mexico won’t pay for Trump’s pointless border wall. We must not allow resources to be robbed from our troops just to satisfy Trump’s fragile ego.” ###
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Last night, Rep. Gallego successfully passed three amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act during a late-night marathon markup of the bill. No Defense Funds for the Border Wall President Trump will not be permitted to use Department of Defense funds to build his border wall, after the House Armed Services Committee voted to bar Pentagon funding from being used for the wall. Rep. Gallego introduced the amendment in order to prevent Trump from raiding the defense budget for political purposes when he is unable to convince Mexico to build the wall. Rep. Steve Knight (R-Calif) introduced a substitute to Rep. Gallego’s amendment, and Rep. Beto O’Rourke introduced a perfecting amendment that contained the language ultimately passed by the committee. “At some point, President Trump is going to realize that Mexico isn’t budging in their refusal to entertain his absurd idea to have them pay for a border wall that won’t work and isn’t needed,” Rep Gallego said. “With no direct appropriation from Congress, President Trump is going to get desperate for funding. It’s important that we protect funds designated for our military personnel and equipment from his political whims.” DREAMers in the Military In a victory for immigrant rights, the House Armed Services Committee voted to affirm the Secretary of Defense’s broad discretionary power to enable immigrants – including DREAMers – to enlist in the military. Rep. Gallego had introduced very similar amendments during NDAA markup for the past two years, but Republicans later succeeded in stripping out this critical provision on the House floor. “I fought in Iraq, and I know that what matters on the battlefield isn’t your immigration status, it’s whether you have the right skills and character,” Rep. Gallego said. “For the third year in a row, a bipartisan majority of the House Armed Services Committee agreed. The passage of this amendment is a victory for DREAMers and other immigrants who wish to show their patriotism by serving our country in uniform. Now it’s time for Secretary Mattis to use this legal authority and begin enlisting DREAMers in our military as soon as possible.” Protecting our Government from Russian Interference Taking a strong stance against Russian meddling in our national affairs, the House Armed Services Committee passed an amendment introduced by Rep. Gallego that expands Defense Secretary Mattis’s ability to revoke security clearances of Trump administration officials who had inappropriate contacts with the Russians. The measure was passed as a part of a group of amendments passed by voice vote. “Those who are vulnerable to foreign influence shouldn’t have access to our government’s most sensitive secrets,” Rep. Gallego said. “The American people deserve competence – not corruption – from the leaders entrusted with our national security. And they deserve to be able to rest easy at night, knowing that our democracy is safeguarded.” ###
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – El congresista Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), el congresista Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) y la congresista Grace Meng (D-NY) y setenta de sus colegas enviaron una carta al presidente Trump instándole a nombrar rápidamente un Director de Censo de los Estados Unidos calificado y no partidario para llenar el puesto vacante que el Director Thompson dejará al final de esta semana. La carta reconoce 2018 como un año crítico de preparación para el censo de 2020 que requerirá un liderazgo efectivo a la cabeza de la Oficina y advierte que la nominación de un Director partidista podría destruir la confianza en las comunidades minoritarias que son históricamente subcontadas - incluidas las comunidades de inmigrantes. Una copia firmada de la carta se puede encontrar aquí. "El censo no sólo nos permite saber quiénes somos como nación, sino que juega un parte vital en el diseño de los distritos del Congreso, la distribución de los recursos federales, e incluso la aplicación de nuestras leyes, por lo que es imperativo que el próximo Director sea calificado, experimentado y merecedor de la confianza de todos los estadounidenses, independientemente de su afiliación política," dijo el congresista Ruben Gallego. "En el 2010, el condado de Maricopa sufrió el segundo menor recuento de niños latinos en el país, cuando más de 27,000 niños fueron sin contar. Las comunidades de inmigrantes y minorías en todo el país no pueden darse el lujo de un censo 2020 comprometido. Es crítico que el presidente Trump se mueva rápidamente para asegurar que la Oficina tenga el liderazgo que necesita para completar una encuesta justa y efectiva en 2020. " "Estoy alarmado de que el Presidente Trump haya dejado la Oficina del Censo sin un director durante este período hasta el Censo 2020," dijo la congresista Grace Meng. "El gobierno de los Estados Unidos se basa en datos precisos del censo decenal para tomar decisiones sobre la distribución de los recursos federales, lo que es especialmente importante para las comunidades de minorías e inmigrantes, pero no hay nadie en la cima de la mesa para asegurar que los preparativos avancen. La Oficina está desarrollando nuevos protocolos de tecnología y personal, pero está atrasado en probar esta tecnología y está cancelando las pruebas de nuevos procedimientos. También ha propuesto demorar la apertura de oficinas locales que son importantes para áreas densamente pobladas como la ciudad de Nueva York. Deben tomarse decisiones cruciales ahora, por lo que exhorto al Presidente Trump a nombrar de inmediato a un director experimentado y no partidista de la Oficina del Censo." "Con una población cada vez más grande y diversa en Nueva York y esta gran nación, los datos exactos del censo son cruciales para la investigación futura, la innovación y el desarrollo," dijo el congresista Hakeem Jeffries. "Un director de censos calificado y apolítico es imperativo en esta era transformadora de tecnología y modernización. Dejar el puesto vacante en este período de preparación pone al país en una desventaja significativa. La Administración debe llenar esta posición inmediatamente." ###
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), and Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-NY) led seventy of their colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump urging him to quickly appoint a qualified and nonpartisan U.S. Census Director to fill the vacancy Director Thompson will leave when he steps down at the end of this week. The letter recognizes 2018 as a critical year of preparation for the 2020 census that will require effective leadership at the head of the Bureau and warns that the nomination of a partisan Director could erode trust in the minority communities most likely to be undercounted – including immigrant communities. A signed copy of the letter can be found here. “The census not only lets us know who we are as a nation, but plays a vital role in drawing congressional districts, distributing federal resources, and even enforcing our laws, so it’s imperative that the next Director is qualified, experienced, and deserving of the trust of all Americans, regardless of political affiliation,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “In 2010, Maricopa County suffered the second largest undercount of Latino children in the country, when more than 27,000 children went uncounted. Immigrant and minority communities across the country cannot afford a compromised 2020 census. It’s critical that President Trump moves quickly to ensure that the Bureau has the leadership it needs to complete a fair and effective survey in 2020.” “I’m alarmed that President Trump has left the Bureau of the Census without a director during this lead up to the 2020 Census,” said Rep. Grace Meng. “The U.S. government relies on accurate data from the decennial census to make decisions on the distribution of federal resources, which is especially important for minority and immigrant communities, but there is no one at the top of the Bureau to ensure that preparations are moving forward. The Bureau is developing new technology and staffing protocols, but it is behind on testing this technology and it is canceling tests on new procedures. It has also proposed delaying opening up local offices that are important for densely populated areas like New York City. Crucial decisions need to be made now, and so I urge President Trump to immediately appoint an experienced, non-partisan director for the Bureau of the Census.” “With an increasingly large and diverse population across New York City and this great nation, accurate census data is crucial for future research, innovation and development,” said Rep. Hakeem Jeffries. “A qualified and apolitical census director is imperative in this transformative era of technology and modernization. Leaving the position vacant in this period of preparation puts the country at a significant disadvantage. The Administration must fill this position immediately.” ###
06.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Jacky Rosen (D-NV) and Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ) introduced legislation to revise the rules that dictate pay raises for members of our military in order to provide more generous increases in compensation. Under the Give Our Troops a Raise Act, members of the military would receive a well-earned 2.9% raise in the coming fiscal year – an increase from the current 2.4%. That’s because this critical legislation would amend the permanent formula under Sec 1009 of Title 37 for automatic annual increases in basic pay, increasing the annual raise by 0.5 percent for the next two fiscal years – a return to the formula as it existed between 2000 and 2006. “After 16 years of combat overseas and at a time when our economy is improving and the ranks of our Armed Forces are expanding, the moment has come for Congress to revisit the pay raises we provide our brave men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Gallego, a Marine Corps veteran. “Through reforms to the basic allowance for housing, TRICARE and other programs, America’s political leaders have nickel and dimed our service members. And to make matters worse, both President Obama and now President Trump have requested pay raises in their budgets that were below the rate of inflation in private-sector compensation. Especially with the introduction of a new retirement system in 2018 that will require service member contributions, now is the time to boost military pay. “Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines deserve pay increases that are competitive with opportunities in the private sector and that better reflect the gravity of their sacrifices on behalf of our nation. We should demonstrate our respect for their service not just in speeches and public gestures, but in their paychecks.” Rep. Tom O’Halleran said, “Every day, our brave service members fight to protect our country and defend our freedoms, and as a nation, we owe them a debt of gratitude. For too long, we have allowed political gamesmanship to get in the way of giving them the pay raise they need and deserve. “I am proud to support this commonsense legislation that gives the men and women of our Armed Forces a raise and puts a formula in place to ensure they are adequately compensated in the future.” ###
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Senate Republicans finally released their health care bill after weeks of keeping the working product behind closed doors. Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement: “Senate Republican leadership is trying to ram major health care legislation through without holding committee hearings or public debate. This is unprecedented. “This mean-spirited bill rips health care away from millions of Americans and makes devastating cuts to Medicaid – all to give enormous tax cuts to the wealthiest few who need it the least. “Thankfully, some Republicans have already voiced strong concerns about this bill’s impact on their constituents. If they are serious about these concerns, it will only take three Senators to take a stand and grind this process to a halt. “Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake face a stark choice – they can do the bidding of Donald Trump and deprive millions of affordable coverage, or they can take steps to defend the health and financial security of the Arizonans they represent. The fate of this deeply misguided legislation rests in their hands. “The people of Arizona haven’t been shy about letting our Senators know how they feel, but it’s time to dial up the pressure. Senators McCain and Flake must understand that they owe it to Arizona families to vote no on Trumpcare – and if they don’t, Arizonans will hold them accountable.” ###
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), and 21 other original co-sponsors introduced the Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act of 2017. A summary of the bill is available here and its text can be found here. Gallego and Smith made the following statements about the bill: "The threat from Russia is real, clear, and immediate. Russia is an enemy that undermines our elections, degrades our alliance network, and abuses the human and civil rights of its own people and freedom-loving peoples around the world,” said Gallego. “While President Trump continues to cozy up to President Putin, his feckless handling of foreign policy is putting our national security at risk. Through the Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act, Democrats in Congress are working to preserve America’s formidable leadership of the Western alliance in opposition to Putin.” “I am pleased to work with Congressman Gallego on this bill to forcefully and responsibly counter Russian aggression, its violation of arms treaties, and its campaign to erode democratic values worldwide,” said Smith. “It is time for Congress to lead on this issue, especially given President Trump’s unwillingness take the danger seriously. This bill adopts an intelligent and proactive approach to strengthening allied and partner defenses, increasing deterrence, and boosting our cohesion while requiring measures to reduce the risk of miscalculation and accidental nuclear war.” The bill’s original co-sponsors are Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Bob Brady (D-PA), Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Jep. Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rep. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), and Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D-NY). ###
06.21.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA), John Conyers (D-MI) and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing serious concerns regarding the future direction of the US military campaign in Afghanistan. Their letter criticizes the administration for the lengthy delay in finalizing its strategy for the conflict and expresses strong skepticism that the addition of several thousand US troops will be sufficient to achieve America’s objectives. After 16 years of fighting and the loss of thousands of American lives, the Members also urged Mattis to clearly state that America’s military commitment in Afghanistan will not be open-ended. “Secretary Mattis is right – we definitely aren’t winning in Afghanistan. And it’s completely unacceptable that 6 months into the new administration, President Trump and his advisors still can’t agree on a strategy,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego, a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a Marine Corps combat veteran. “Deploying a few thousand additional American troops might buy the struggling Afghan government more time, but it certainly won’t produce any lasting gains. I strongly object to sending more brave young Americans into harm’s way without a real plan, simply to kick the can down the road.” “A decision on increasing U.S. military operations in Afghanistan should originate from clearly-defined political objectives—not the other way around. It is deeply troubling that six months into the new Administration, the President has not articulated his strategy for the wars our men and women in uniform are actively fighting,” said Rep. Ted Lieu. “The American people deserve a clear cut plan for strategic success, not political bluster and inconsistent, inadequate leadership.” The text of the letter is below. A signed copy can be found here. Dear Secretary Mattis: We write to express our grave concerns regarding the future direction of the war in Afghanistan, a conflict which is the longest in the history of our nation. We agree with your assessment that “we are not winning” but with this in mind, it is disconcerting that nearly five months into the new Administration, a plan for how to achieve our national security objectives in Afghanistan remains unfinished. We are also troubled by what appears to be systemic miscommunication between the White House and the Department of Defense, particularly on the issue of delegated authority on troop levels. We understand that General Nicholson believes that he needs “a few thousand” more troops in Afghanistan. However, given the fact that US forces in Afghanistan numbered more than 60,000 just five years ago, we are unconvinced that the addition of 3,000 to 5,000 American troops will be sufficient to quickly or sustainably roll back the advances achieved by the Taliban. Our skepticism is reflected in the recent testimony of Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats who stated that, “[t]he intelligence community assesses that the political and security situation in Afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through 2018, even with a modest increase in military assistance by the United States and its partners.” You have described victory in this conflict as a scenario in which, “the Afghan government, with international help, will be able to handle the violence and drive it down to a level that local security forces can handle it.” Given the high levels of bloodshed in the country and the fragile gains achieved despite a robust American military commitment since 2001, we strongly believe that military force alone will be insufficient to achieve this goal. The augmentation of our forces that the Administration is contemplating may yield limited, short-term gains, but without a long-term strategy and a sustained diplomatic effort, additional troops are unlikely to enable the struggling Afghan state to provide lasting security and effective governance to its people. For this reason, in your upcoming strategy, we strongly urge you to recommit the United States to seeking a political solution to the war in Afghanistan. A negotiated settlement remains the best and only means of ending this conflict. Moreover, your plan must also convey the clear message that America’s commitment is not open-ended. After 16 years of fighting and the loss of thousands of American lives, the United States must be unambiguous about its intention to eventually draw down American forces. Thank you for your service to the nation. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
06.09.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) joined other Democrats on the House Armed Services Committee to call on President Donald Trump to state explicit support for Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, known as the “collective-defense clause,” – calling such action a “national security imperative.” The collective-defense clause specifies that an attack on any NATO member is an attack on all, and is a commitment from member states to protect one another. The clause was invoked for the first time following the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States, and collective defense measures have since been taken on several other occasions, including in response to the situation in Syria. During a summit with NATO allies in Brussels last month, Trump refused to express such support, reportedly surprising even his own national security team. “Not committing to Article 5 provides opportunities for our adversaries and can easily be spun to propagate a dangerous narrative regarding U.S. commitment to the defense of our NATO Allies in the event of an attack,” the group wrote in a letter to the President. “Your explicit and immediate endorsement of Aricle 5 is a national security imperative,” the letter continues. “The European security environment has significantly evolved, and deterring Russian aggression is as important now as it has ever been.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
06.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to claim credit for the pressure being placed on Qatar by Gulf Arab states who have accused the country of supporting terrorism. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement: “The Gulf Arab states' diplomatic isolation of Qatar is a highly significant development and the American people should be alarmed by Donald Trump's total inability to understand the complexity of the situation. “Qatar's actions with respect to unsavory groups and characters is disturbing, but the President seems to forget that he is also responsible for our forces at Al-Udeid Air Base, the largest military base in the Middle East, which is key to our campaign against ISIS. “The President illustrated his rank ignorance for all the world to see on Twitter this morning, almost certainly before the few adults in his entourage could speak sense to him. This situation is complex, like many diplomatic situations, and showcases how uniquely unqualified Donald Trump is in securing the best interests of the United States when it comes to foreign policy and national security. “I empathize with the professionals at the State Department, Defense Department, Central Command, relevant Embassies, and other organizations of the U.S. Government that will have to clean up his mess.” ###
06.05.2017	Washington, DC – On Monday, African American leaders in Arizona called for the removal of six Confederate monuments across the state. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement in support: “Confederate monuments are not innocent acknowledgements of the past – instead, they are symbols of hate and intolerance, painful reminders of a terrible time in our nation’s history. “These symbols of the Confederacy are embraced by racist groups and individuals like the Ku Klux Klan and Dylann Roof, who murdered 9 people at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. We cannot legitimize these groups and their hateful acts by preserving and honoring these anachronistic tributes to a time when African Americans were forced into slavery and then suffered the injustices of Jim Crow. “The Confederacy is a stain upon American history that should not be celebrated. Governor Ducey should immediately take steps to remove these monuments from our state.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – El Congresista Rubén Gallego (AZ-07) hizo la siguiente declaración sobre el presupuesto de Presidente Trump: "El presupuesto de Donald Trump destruye programas diseñados para ayudar a las familias trabajadoras a cubrir los gastos, mientras que llena los bolsillos a los muy ricos. Medicaid, el programa de cupones de alimentos federales y el Seguro de Incapacidad del Seguro Social sufrirán de recortes masivos, mientras que los estadounidenses más ricos recibirán exenciones tributarias. "El presupuesto de Trump no es sólo una bofetada en la cara a los que votaron por él, sino que es un plan peligroso que aumentaría el número de estadounidenses no asegurados, sacaría la comida de la boca de niños hambrientos y llevaría más familias en la pobreza. "Si Paul Ryan y el Partido Republicano aceptan el presupuesto desmedido del Presidente Trump, estarán guiándonos hacia un cierre del gobierno." ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s proposed budget: “Donald Trump’s morally bankrupt budget demolishes programs designed to help working families make ends meet, while lining the pockets of the very wealthy. Medicaid, the federal food stamp program, and Social Security disability insurance will all suffer from massive cuts, while the richest Americans will be handed tax breaks. “Not only is Trump’s budget a slap in the face to those who voted for him, it’s a dangerous plan that would raise the number of uninsured Americans, take food out of the mouths of hungry children, and drive more families into poverty. “If Paul Ryan and the GOP embrace President Trump’s unconscionable budget plan, they will be steering us toward a government shutdown.” ###
05.17.2017	Phoenix, AZ – Today, the office of Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced the appointment of Morgan Ammons to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY. “Morgan has demonstrated the academic excellence, leadership and dedication that will make her a strong addition to the U.S. Military Academy. I offer her my heartfelt congratulations on her appointment and wish her success as a military officer,” said Rep. Gallego. “As a veteran, I consider it a great honor to nominate bright and dedicated students like Morgan to our country’s military service academies. These students are a valuable asset to the armed forces and they make Phoenix proud.” Morgan Ammons graduated from Betty Fairfax High School in 2016, where she was a member of the JROTC. She is an active member of her community, and volunteered regularly at the VA Hospital, with AZ Stand Down, and with Honor Flight, an organization that takes WWII veterans to Washington, D.C. She is also a recipient of the U.S. Air Force Science and Technology Award. Morgan Ammon is Rep. Gallego’s fourth nominee to be appointed to a military academy this year. His office holds an annual Academy Day event in the spring to identify potential nominees. ###
05.10.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein calling for the appointment of an independent special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and calling for Rosenstein to recuse himself from further involvement in the matter. “No reasonable American could possibly accept the explanation proffered by the President that Comey was fired because of his conduct over the course of the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s private email server,” Gallego wrote. “Your willingness to allow your words and your reputation to be used as cover for President Trump’s decision to fire Director Comey has compromised your ability to oversee the Russia investigation.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy of the letter can be found here. May 10, 2017 Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Mr. Rosenstein: I write to express my profound concerns regarding President Trump’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey and, more specifically, your role in this matter. In your May 9th memorandum released by the White House as part of its announcement regarding Director Comey’s dismissal, you state that the “reputation and credibility” of the FBI has been undermined by Director Comey’s actions. The same can now be said of the Department of Justice because of yours. The putative rationale for the decision to fire Comey simply defies credulity. Throughout the 2016 campaign, the President openly trumpeted the very things for which you criticize Director Comey in your May 9th memorandum, including the press conference in which Comey editorialized regarding Secretary Clinton’s actions and the Director’s late October decision to reopen the investigation. No reasonable American could possibly accept the explanation proffered by the President that Comey was fired because of his conduct over the course of the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s private email server. Your willingness to allow your words and your reputation to be used as cover for President Trump’s decision to fire Director Comey has compromised your ability to oversee the Russia investigation. Moving forward, in order to restore the reputation and credibility of the Justice Department, it is imperative that you appoint an independent special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and recuse yourself from further involvement in the matter. I look forward to your prompt reply to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Member of Congress ###
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, President Trump announced that FBI Director James Comey has been fired and removed from office. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released the following statement: “Let’s be clear about what just happened: President Trump just fired the person in charge of investigating his campaign’s ties to Russian interference in the 2016 election. Even more troubling, he will now be able to direct the hiring the next person in charge of that investigation. “Without an independent investigation, the American people will be forced to conclude that the Trump campaign’s collusion with Russia is even more contemptible than we already suspected. In short, Comey’s sudden dismissal looks an awful lot like a cover-up. “Donald Trump can get away with these troubling maneuvers for only so long as Congressional Republicans allow him to do so. Now that the FBI investigation has been tainted, it’s beyond time to appoint an independent special prosecutor to get to the bottom of this administration’s Russia ties.”
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) voted no on the omnibus budget agreement. He issued the following statement: “I can’t vote for a bill that would give more than $1.2 billion to fuel Donald Trump’s deportations. Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions will stop at nothing to strike fear into the heart of every immigrant. Instead of focusing on well-established deportation priorities – like criminals and national security threats – Trump and Sessions are tearing mothers away from their children and sending families back to the violence they fought so hard to escape. They are targeting DREAMers and other good, hardworking people who have lived in the United States for decades and contribute every day to their communities. “Under this deal, the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget will be reduced by more than $80 million, a deeply irresponsible cut that will undermine the federal government’s ability to combat climate change and to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink. “The omnibus also fails to adequately address a mounting crisis in Puerto Rico – allocating only about a third of what is needed to address severe healthcare shortfalls that are leaving too many of our fellow U.S. citizens without the care they need. “A government shutdown was looming, and that terrified Republicans. Democrats could and should have used that opportunity to get a better deal.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation to strengthen the process through which relatives of the President of the United States can obtain security clearances and thus gain access to our government’s most sensitive information. The bill comes one day after it was revealed in the Wall Street Journal that Jared Kushner had omitted significant financial interests from his government disclosure forms—including a stake in a tech start-up and more than $1 billion in loans—and one month after it was reported that Kushner had neglected to include dozens of contacts with foreign officials in his security clearance application. The Security Clearance Family Review Act would require the Office of Government Ethics to review applications submitted by family members of the President to determine whether they have substantial commercial relationships with foreign enterprises or financial institutions and, if so, whether a relative should be ineligible for a security clearance as a consequence of such a relationship. “One of the things that used to distinguish American democracy was that family members of the President didn’t use his high office to enrich themselves,” said Rep. Gallego. “Unfortunately, we don’t have any meaningful assurances that the new occupants of the White House are upholding this proud tradition. That’s why I introduced the Security Clearance Family Review Act. “Jared Kushner has vast international interests totaling hundreds of millions of dollars. He also has an expansive portfolio at the White House that includes everything from US policy in Iraq to the Middle East peace process to relations with Mexico. He’s even the go-to person in the Administration for the Chinese Ambassador. “Is Kushner vulnerable to foreign financial influence? Should he have access to our government’s most sensitive secrets? Without a rigorous review of his holdings by the Office of Government Ethics, these crucial questions will remain unanswered and the American people will remain in the dark. Congress should demand a tough, thorough vetting process before members of the President’s family can get a security clearance.” The legislation is supported by the Democratic Whip, Steny Hoyer: “Rep. Gallego’s bill represents a smarter approach to the White House appointment and security clearance process than the current system, which does not cover the President’s family as part of nepotism laws. A key difference between our system and that of a banana republic is the transparency of our government and the fundamental requirement that public officials serve the people’s interest, not their own or their relatives’. This President’s choice of appointees has cast doubt on this system, and Rep. Gallego’s bill is an effective and important response.” ###
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement in response to reports that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will eliminate 2,300 civil service and diplomatic positions, a 9 percent reduction of the agency’s workforce. “These cuts to the State Department are yet another example of the irresponsible and reckless approach to governing by the Trump administration,” said Rep Ruben Gallego (AZ-07). “Civil servants and diplomats play an invaluable role in advancing our economic and security interests overseas. Addressing the growing threats posed by North Korea, ISIL and Russia will require patient, effective diplomacy – not just military power. Slashing the budget of an already-understaffed State Department and eliminating these key roles will only serve to weaken the voice of the United States abroad and put the safety and interests of the American people at risk.” ###
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, six Democratic Members of the House Armed Services Committee wrote to President Trump urging him to take immediate action to identify and nominate qualified candidates to fill positions in his administration vital to the national security of the United States. At a time when our allies face the growing threat posed by North Korea, key ambassadorships in the Asia-Pacific remain vacant and senior roles at the Department of Defense, including posts devoted to Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction and Security Cooperation, are still open almost 100 days after the President’s inauguration. The full text of the letter can be found here. The letter also comes as the New York Times is reporting today that “Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has done almost nothing to select leaders for the White House’s consideration, and nominations for assistant secretaries and others who largely run the State Department are unlikely to be made for months.” “It’s frankly outrageous that nearly 100 days into his presidency, President Trump has barely lifted a finger to fill the jobs that arguably matter most in any administration – the positions charged with the diplomacy and defense of our nation,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07). “The principal reason for this delay is clear: in selecting nominees, President Trump obviously values support for his campaign more than competence or experience. At a time when America faces a mounting crisis in North Korea and renewed antagonism from Russia, I urge President Trump to move rapidly to fill these critical national security positions with qualified American leaders.” “As a former national security specialist at the Department of Defense, I know that personnel is policy,” said Rep. Stephanie Murphy (FL-07). “I’m concerned that the large number of vacancies in key national security positions throughout the Administration are making us less safe. As we encounter growing threats and opportunities around the world, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, this Administration needs to quickly nominate qualified people to fill these critical national security positions.” "The Trump administration’s failure to fill hundreds of positions with qualified officials throughout the Defense and State Departments jeopardizes not only our national security but our leadership in the world. Critical positions dealing with threats as critical as weapons of mass destruction remain unfilled - this is simply unacceptable now 100 days after inauguration. The Trump Administration is letting down our allies by not providing partners to work with on these critical issues, and handing our adversaries a gift through their disorganization and incompetence,” said Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06). ###
04.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today , Congressman Ruben Gallego, a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, wrote to Defense Secretary James Mattis seeking more information about Russian aid to the Taliban in Afghanistan. His letter comes after the commander of US forces in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson, appeared to confirm on Monday that Russia is providing arms and other support to the Taliban. “At a time when more than 8,000 American troops remain in Afghanistan, Congress deserves to know more about Russian arms transfers to the Taliban,” said Rep. Gallego. “As we consider the future course of US involvement in that country after more than 15 years of war and as our military contends with growing Russian antagonism around the world, it is critical that the Members of this body have a clear understanding of Russian support for an adversary that continues to actively target brave American service members.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. Dear Secretary Mattis: I write to request a comprehensive briefing on Russian efforts to arm the Taliban in Afghanistan. This issue is of urgent and growing importance at a time of increasingly lethal Taliban attacks on Afghan forces and of mounting Russian hostility toward U.S. interests around the world. Recent, highly successful Taliban attacks – including the April 21st raid that reportedly killed as many as 140 Afghan security personnel – pose a clear threat to the Afghan National Security Forces, the over 8,000 U.S. service members in Afghanistan, other U.S. Government personnel and contractors, and to the long term stability of the Afghan state. If this threat is augmented by the willful actions of the Russian Government, Congress needs to know. As you are aware, this issue came to light during your recent trip to Afghanistan. While I am encouraged by your public assessment that any arms shipments to forces arrayed against the Government of Afghanistan would be in violation of international law, I am eager to hear from your Department about the nature of such arms transfers, current efforts to stop them, and how Russia’s support for the Taliban fits into a larger Russian policy of antagonism around the globe. Thank you for attention to this request. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Member of Congress ###
04.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on the crisis in Venezuela: "The ongoing crisis in Venezuela poses great risk to the economic and political stability of the Americas. As Venezuelan citizens exercise their right to protest, I urge the government to respect and protect human- and civil rights. Similarly, the Venezuelan security services must remember that they ultimately serve the people of Venezuela. The ultimate solution to this crisis is via peaceful political reform. People are entitled to a government that respects their rights as human beings and recognizes that the people are the source of state power. I hope and expect that all groups and parties work together to secure the best interests of the Venezuelan people." ###
04.21.2017	Washington, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre la crisis en Venezuela: “La crisis en Venezuela plantea un gran riesgo para la estabilidad económica y política de las Américas. A medida que los ciudadanos venezolanos ejercen su derecho a protestar, exhorto al gobierno a respetar y proteger sus derechos humanos y civiles. Del mismo modo, los servicios de seguridad venezolanos deben recordar que en última instancia sirven al pueblo de Venezuela. “La solución definitiva a esta crisis es a través de una reforma política pacífica. Las personas tienen derecho a un gobierno que respete sus derechos humanos y que reconoce que la gente es la fuente del poder estatal. Espero que todos los grupos y partidos trabajen juntos para asegurar el bienestar del pueblo venezolano ." ###
04.12.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) wrote to President Trump urging him to clarify whether it is now his Administration’s policy to seek the removal from power of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The letter comes after White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer compared Assad to Adolf Hitler on Tuesday and after senior advisors to President Trump offered a series of conflicting statements about this crucial aspect of American strategy in Syria over the weekend. The full text of the letter is below. “The fact that high-ranking officials in the Trump administration are struggling to answer the most fundamental question about our objectives in Syria – whether the United States is actively pursuing regime change – leads inexorably to the conclusion that President Trump ordered the airstrikes without considering the potential consequences,” said Rep. Gallego. “Congress deserves a debate and a vote on authorizing further military action in Syria. But first, we need to know whether Trump intends to seek the removal of President Assad.” “I am deeply troubled by the confusion presented publicly by President Trump and members of his administration as they struggle to explain recent military action against Syria. Action that was undertaken without any clear authorization from Congress or established policy," said Rep. Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Our Constitution makes clear that these decisions must come before Congress. Congress must not abdicate this responsibility. We, the people's elected representatives, must finally debate and vote on this issue and the President must inform us of his intentions regarding foreign policy with the Assad regime," added Boyle. … Dear Mr. President: Following US airstrikes in Syria last week, senior officials in your Administration have rightly faced questions about whether it is now the policy of the United States government to seek the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Unfortunately, even with regard to this most central of issues in the Syrian civil war, the answers provided by your advisors have been confusing and contradictory. Given America’s escalating involvement in this conflict, we write to request clarification of this fundamental aspect of American strategy – moving forward, will your Administration actively pursue the removal from power of President Assad? On Sunday, in multiple interviews, high-ranking officials in your Administration appeared to argue both for and against the ouster of Assad. Secretary Tillerson told ABC News that, “We've seen what that looks like when you undertake a violent regime change in Libya…. So I think we have to learn the lessons of the past and learn the lessons of what went wrong in Libya when you choose that pathway of regime change.” Tillerson’s statement was in keeping with his previous insistence that “the longer term status of President Assad will be decided by the Syrian people” and UN Ambassador Nikki Haley’s statement on March 30th that “our priority is no longer to sit and focus on getting Assad out.” In sharp contrast, your National Security Advisor, H.R. McMaster, argued in an appearance on Fox News this weekend that Assad’s removal from power would be beneficial, saying, “It’s very hard to understand how a political solution could result from the continuation of the Assad regime.” Similarly, and in an abrupt departure from her previous remarks, Ambassador Haley stated on CNN that, “We don't see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there,” and that, “We know there's not any sort of option where a political solution is going to happen with Assad at the head of the regime.” The fact that key figures in your Administration have publically articulated contradictory positions on this crucial question is confounding. It suggests the absence of an overarching strategy for accomplishing US objectives in Syria, or even a clear understanding of what those goals might be. Moreover, this confusion among your top advisors on such a basic aspect of US policy is compelling evidence of a lack of thorough planning in advance of the airstrikes you ordered and of a troubling failure to consider their potential ramifications. Consistent with our obligations under the Constitution, Congress has a responsibility to weigh whether our nation’s military should engage in further attacks on the Syrian regime. Such deliberations will be severely undermined without a clear understanding of whether your Administration intends to actively pursue the removal of President Assad from power. Again, we urgently request clarification of this critical aspect of American strategy in Syria. Sincerely, Ruben Gallego Brendan F. Boyle Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
04.11.2017	Today, Attorney General Jeff Sessions will visit Arizona to deliver a speech at the International Association of Chiefs of Police Division Midyear Conference. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “Jeff Sessions has a long and troubling history of racial animosity and hostility toward civil rights, and in his short time on the job, he’s already aligning DOJ policy with those dangerous views. “Jeff Sessions made it crystal clear that he has no intention of holding police accountable when he indicated the Justice Department would walk back its monitoring of local law enforcement agencies that have been charged with civil rights abuses. Under Jeff Sessions’ watch, we can expect a return to unjust targeting of minority communities. “The American people deserve a Justice Department that will fight to protect the civil rights of all people and take strong action against those who threaten them. We must demand more of our nation’s top law enforcement official.” ###
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Ruben Gallego and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus met with Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly to discuss the department’s indiscriminate immigration enforcement under Trump. Congressman Gallego serves as the Second Vice-Chair of the Hispanic Caucus. He issued the following statement: “The recent tactics employed by Immigration and Customs Enforcement are unacceptable and Secretary Kelly’s defense of those actions in today’s meeting was equally disappointing. Under Kelly’s watch, ICE agents have been known to stalk churches, schools and courthouses in order to find and arrest undocumented immigrants. His blatant denial of the facts is insulting to the intelligence of the American people but unsurprising given the Trump administration’s aversion to telling the truth. “We are already seeing the repercussions of ICE’s predatory enforcement practices. The Los Angeles Police Department recently saw a sharp decline in the number of sexual assaults reported by the Latino community. Making crime victims feel like it is unsafe to cooperate with local law enforcement allows dangerous criminals to behave with impunity and threatens the safety of every American. “As a leader of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I will continue to hold Donald Trump, John Kelly and ICE accountable for their inhumane and shameful policies.” ####
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Ruben Gallego issued an Equal Pay Day statement in support of efforts to close the gender pay gap between men and women in the workforce. Congressman Gallego is one of the original co-sponsors of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which was reintroduced in Congress today. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “Equal Pay Day brings attention to one of our country’s most important women’s rights issues: wage discrimination. The gender pay gap is very real, especially for women of color, and Congress must do much more to address the problem. African American and Hispanic women make just 63 cents and 54 cents to every dollar paid to white men. This is unacceptable. If we want American families to succeed, we must take a stand against gender discrimination and close the gender pay gap. “Equal pay is not just important for working women, it’s important for the entire economy. When employees receive equal pay for equal work, it puts more money back into the pockets of low and medium income families and strengthens the middle class. “I’m proud to co-sponsor the Paycheck Fairness Act, which gives women in the workforce the tools to fight back against wage discrimination. I plan to continue working with my colleagues to advocate for women’s rights in Congress.” ####
03.31.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Ruben Gallego issued a statement in honor Cesar Chavez Day. Cesar Chavez was born in Arizona and went on to lead a national movement for farm worker rights and civil rights for the Latino community. Congressman Gallego issued the following statement: “Cesar Chavez is a hero of mine. His picture hangs above my desk in Washington as a constant reminder of the compassion and conviction that we should all aspire to possess. Cesar Chavez’s commitment to the working people of Phoenix and other oppressed communities across the country has been an inspiration to me and millions more in every part of the world. “Cesar Chavez had the courage to stand up to everyone from growers to governors to presidents in his lifelong struggle for justice. He organized and empowered the voiceless, creating a movement that brought issues like fair working conditions, reasonable wages, livable housing and child labor rights to the forefront of American politics. His 1972 hunger strike in Phoenix, Arizona also gave us the “si se puede” chant that has now become a rallying cry for workers’ rights, civil rights and comprehensive immigration reform. “I’m happy to honor the great legacy of Cesar Chavez look forward to working with fellow admirers to build on his life’s work.” ####
03.29.2017	Phoenix, AZ – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego announced that Kyle D. Wagner, his third 2017 nominee to a U.S. military academy, was accepted by the U.S. Naval Academy. “The admission of our 2017 nominees speaks to the quality of these candidates and to the respect that Phoenix families have for military service,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. “Kyle will be an excellent addition to the U.S. Naval Academy and, eventually, an outstanding officer. Ensuring that students have every opportunity to succeed is a priority for our office. I look forward to working with our 2018 nominees to secure similar results. As a congressman and a veteran, I offer Kyle Wagner my heartfelt congratulations.” Kyle D. Wagner is a graduating senior of Bioscience High School in Phoenix where he has earned a 4.138 weighted GPA. Kyle is also an active volunteer in his community. He is a volunteer coordinator at a local food bank and a volunteer tutor at his high school. Kyle is also an officer of his school’s Be a Better Man Club. Earlier this month, Alhambra High School Senior Andres Jimenez was accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy, followed by Stephen H. Scott’s acceptance into the U.S. Airforce Academy. The office of Rep. Gallego held their annual Academy Day event on March 25th in order to identify future nominees. ###
03.28.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Ruben Gallego called on House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes to recuse himself from the committee’s bipartisan investigation into the Trump administration’s potentially unlawful ties to Moscow. Last week, Chairman Nunes reviewed classified documents relevant to the investigation and briefed President Trump during a secret meeting in the White House. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “Chairman Nunes has completely compromised the integrity of the Intelligence Committee’s investigation and should recuse himself immediately. Throughout this entire process, Nunes has demonstrated a disappointing unwillingness to pursue information on a threat as clear and urgent as Russia’s meddling in U.S. elections. Now that this investigation finally gets underway he is working to undermine it. At best, Nunes is incapable of conducting himself with impartiality; at worst, he is an active participant in a cover-up. “There is no justifiable reason for the chairman of a bipartisan investigation to brief the president—the person at the very heart of the allegations—on classified documents that were not shared with Democrats, or even Republicans, on the Intelligence Committee. Members of both parties are committed to uncovering the extent to which a foreign government conspired to meddle in U.S. elections, and Chairman Nunes’ actions disqualify him from leading that effort. “Chairman Nunes can be Trump’s buddy or the leader of the Trump-Russia investigation, but not both. He should recuse himself immediately.” ####
03.23.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Ruben Gallego issued a statement on today’s vote on the Republican health care bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act and gives massive tax breaks to the top 1% of wealthiest Americans. The vote takes place on the 7th anniversary of the signing of the Affordable Care Act, which has expanded health coverage to an additional 20 million people. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “In the seven years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, Democrats have focused on giving Americans greater access to health care at a lower cost while Republicans blocked attempts to reign in drug prices and to extend coverage to working families. At no point in the past seven years did Republicans produce a viable plan for improving our health care system. “President Donald Trump, Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans want to pass a bill today that pushes 24 million people off their health coverage and significantly raises premiums and out of pocket expenses for hard working Americans, all while giving massive tax cuts to the top 1%. The Trump-Ryan health care bill raids the Medicare Trust Fund and puts the money directly into the pockets of the richest Americans. “Today, I will vote against the Trump-Ryan health plan and any other attempt by House Republicans to stick it to working families.” ####
03.21.2017	Phoenix, AZ – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego announced that his nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy, Stephen H. Scott III, was accepted by the prestigious military university. Stephen H. Scott III is a graduating senior of Brophy College Prep in Phoenix. Stephen is in the top of his class with a 3.945 weighted GPA and is a member of the National Honor Society. In addition to excelling academically, Stephen distinguished himself as an active member of his community. He was a volunteer member of Brophy’s Big Brothers and Best Buddies programs, helped burn victims at the Maricopa Medical Center and tutored young children from underserved communities. He was also a three-year member of the Broncos varsity football team. “I proudly congratulate Stephen on his acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. “I hope that his hard work and willingness to serve inspires other young boys and girls to consider a rewarding career in military service. Phoenix is a community that goes above and beyond to support its service men and women and that appreciation extends to young people like Stephen who choose to follow in their honorable footsteps. As a congressman and a veteran, I wish Stephen much success as a military officer.” Stephen H. Scott III is Congressman Gallego’s second nominee to be admitted by a military academy this year. Earlier this month, Alhambra High School Senior Andres Jimenez was accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy. This weekend, Congressman Gallego will be hosting his annual Academy Day in Phoenix. The event will be attended by representatives from the West Point Military Academy, the U.S. Airforce Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. At the event, students and parents will have the opportunity to speak with academy representatives and to get more information about our nation’s renowned service institutions. Congressman Gallego’s annual Academy Day will take place on Saturday, March 25, 2017 from 9:30am to 12:00pm at Trevor G. Browne High School, located at 7402 W Catalina Dr., Phoenix, AZ 85033. In order to attend, you must RSVP to sandra.ferniza@mail.house.gov or call (602) 256-0551. ###
03.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego issued a statement on FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the House Intelligence Committee on President Donald Trump’s baseless wiretapping claims. In his testimony, Director Comey dismissed Trump’s initial tweets on the subject, saying he had “no information that supports those tweets.” Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “Donald Trump stepped into the political limelight by spreading racist birther conspiracy theories about President Obama. Now, as president, he can’t help but spread new lies about President Obama in order to distract the public from the ever-growing revelations regarding ties between his associates and the Russian government. “Donald Trump’s ridiculous wiretapping tweets came just one day after it was uncovered that his senior aide Jared Kushner and his ousted adviser Michael Flynn had an undisclosed meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. In response to the continuing controversy around his relationship with Russia, Trump has attacked President Obama, the intelligence community and journalists. And congressional Republicans are not much better—they are more interested in beating up on the press and whistleblowers than getting to the bottom of Russian interference in the 2016 election. “I call on Speaker Paul Ryan and the Republican Conference to listen to Director Comey’s testimony and demand that Trump retract his false claims about wiretapping.” ####
03.13.2017	Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s report showing the disastrous impact Trumpcare will have on American families: “Today’s nonpartisan CBO report included some numbers that were nowhere to be found in Speaker Paul Ryan’s recent PowerPoint presentation on Trumpcare. The report shows that the GOP repeal plan just means higher premiums and less coverage for working families. “We knew the Republican repeal bill was nothing more than a tax break for millionaires and billionaires, but now we know exactly how Republicans plan to pay for it: with premium hikes for average Americans. People shopping for coverage in the individual market will see an immediate increase in the cost of insurance. Trumpcare will also leave an additional 24 million Americans without healthcare. “This CBO report is an embarrassment to Paul Ryan, the Republican Party, and the conservative movement.” ####
03.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Congressman Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) led members of the House Armed Services Committee in sending a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis requesting information regarding President Donald Trump’s travel expenses and the demands placed upon the Department of Defense. “The president’s frequent trips to New York City and his Florida golf course are costing the taxpayers millions of dollars and placing an undue burden on our defense agencies. For Congress to make sound budgeting decisions, the administration must be transparent about these costs,” said O’Halleran. “We do not have an unlimited federal budget that can be spent on presidential travel while we face national security threats at home and abroad and our communities watch their roads and bridges crumble.” “Huge sums—including precious military resources—are expended every time President Trump decides to jet down to Mar-a-Lago for the weekend,” said Congressman Gallego. “As members of the committee that oversees the defense budget, we have a responsibility to our Armed Forces and to the American taxpayer to uncover the true cost of these frivolous trips. We must ensure that the tax dollars of America’s hard working families are going towards our defense needs, not towards weekend getaways for Donald Trump.” Per recent reports, President Trump’s travels in the first month of his presidency have cost taxpayers nearly $10 million. Defense agencies that provide protection and support to the president’s travel incur staggering, but necessary, costs that only exacerbate constraints on the respective operating budgets. The letter, signed by five members of the House Armed Services Committee, requests the following information from the Department of Defense: How much has DOD spent to date in support of the President’s travel? How is such travel expected to impact DOD resources and staff? What steps will be taken to ensure the U.S. government resources remain dedicated to their intended purpose of protecting national security? Last year, the Government Accountability Office estimated a three-day presidential trip costs the DOD $2.8 million, excluding classified and personnel expenses. The costs of the president’s frequent travel to New York City and Florida in the first months in office have far exceeded the annual travel costs of previous administrations. #### FULL LETTER
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C. –Hoy, tras los reportes de que la administración Trump se está preparando para deportar a inmigrantes que han servido en nuestras fuerzas armadas, el Represéntate Gallego (D-AZ) reintrodujo un proyecto de ley que impide la remoción de miembros de las fuerzas armadas o veteranos. El Acto de Restablecimiento del Respeto por el Servicio de Inmigrantes en Uniforme (Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act) también ayudaría a los veteranos deportados a reunirse con sus familias en los Estados Unidos. Específicamente, el proyecto de ley limita los actuales motivos de deportación para evitar la remoción de miembros de las fuerzas armadas o veteranos que han servido por lo menos 6 meses en el ejército y que no han cometido un crimen grave. También afirmaría la capacidad del Secretario del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional a usar sus poderes bajo la ley actual para readmitir veteranos a los Estados Unidos que han sido deportados y que no han cometido un crimen grave. "La intolerancia anti-inmigrante del Presidente Trump no tiene límite", dijo el representante Gallego. "Bajo su administración, los inmigrantes que han puesto sus vidas en riesgo por nuestra libertad ahora se enfrentan a la deportación. Eso es despreciable e inaceptable, y debe molestar profundamente a cada estadounidense – sea republicano o demócrata. El Congreso debe actuar antes de que separen a valientes veteranos de sus familias y antes de que los expulsen del país que aman y por cual han luchado para defender”. ####
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, following reports that the Trump administration is moving to deport immigrants who served in our Armed Forces, Rep. Gallego (D-AZ) reintroduced legislation that would prevent the removal of service members and veterans. The Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act would also help deported veterans to reunite with their families in the United States. Specifically, the bill limits the current grounds of deportability to prevent the removal of a service member or veteran who has served at least 6 months in the military and who has not committed a serious crime. It would also affirm the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to use his powers under current law to readmit veterans into the United States who have been deported and who have not committed a serious crime. “President Trump’s anti-immigrant bigotry knows no bounds,” said Rep. Gallego. “Under his administration, immigrants who have put their lives on the line for our freedom are now facing deportation. That’s outrageous and unacceptable and should deeply trouble every American – Republican or Democrat. Congress must act before brave veterans are separated from their families and expelled from the country they love and have fought to defend.” ####
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement in honor of International Women’s Day: “I’m happy to join many of my colleagues and other people around the world in celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. These strides have been possible thanks to the perseverance and courage of female activists and allies who have worked to empower women and girls to be outstanding leaders, change makers and mentors. Today, on International Women’s day, it is important that we reinforce our commitment to gender equality. That’s why I will continue to fight for equal pay for equal work, women’s reproductive rights, paid family leave and protection for victims of sexual and domestic violence. I look forward to continuing my work in Congress and in my community to champion gender equality.” ####
03.08.2017	Phoenix, AZ – Today, the office of Congressman Ruben Gallego announced that their nominee to the U.S. Naval Academy, Andres Jimenez Gudino, was accepted by the prestigious university. Andres Jimenez Gudino is a graduating senior of Alhambra High School in Phoenix. Andres was an outstanding candidate who distinguished himself in all respects. He earned a GPA of 3.95 and was a member of the National Honor Society. As a member of JROTC, Andres demonstrated his leadership as the Commander of the 8th Battalion. He also participated in a diverse set of extracurricular activities, including track and field, chess club, wrestling, and orienteering. He will join the academy next year as part of the 2021 graduating class. “As a veteran, it gives me great pride to help young, distinguished individuals like Andres achieve their dream of serving our country as military officers,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. “Andres’ sense of duty is admirable and I’m confident he will be a valuable asset to our armed forces and his fellow service members. I hope his acceptance to the U.S. Naval Academy will inspire other young boys and girls from our community to aspire to this honorable career. My office is always happy to help them and their families.” Later this month, Congressman Gallego will be hosting his annual Academy Day in Phoenix. The event will be attended by representatives from the West Point Military Academy, the U.S. Airforce Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. At the event, students and parents will have the opportunity to speak with academy representatives and to get more information about our nation’s renowned service institutions. Congressman Gallego’s annual Academy Day will take place on March 25, 2017 from 9:30am to 12:00pm at Trevor G. Browne High School, located at 7402 W Catalina Dr., Phoenix, AZ 85033. In order to attend, you must RSVP to sandra.ferniza@mail.house.gov or call (602) 256-0551. ###
03.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on the new Republican healthcare bill that benefits the very rich, at the cost of coverage for working families: “The GOP’s ‘repeal and replace’ bill will gut Medicaid and weaken Medicare in order to fund tax breaks for millionaires. I will also not support a bill that leaves millions of families without Medicaid and millions of women without access to reproductive healthcare. “The Republican healthcare plan will cut taxes for the top 1% while blowing a $346 billion hole in federal budgets and the Medicare Trust Fund. Under this plan, millionaires will receive an average of $50,000 in tax cuts. This bill is little more than a tax giveaway to millionaires, billionaires and insurance companies. “What do average working class families get out of this deal? They get left behind. The Republican health plan will leave state governments to cover the cost of Medicaid expansion, forcing them to kick millions of people off the program. The GOP’s plan will make health insurance for Americans in the ACA marketplace far more expensive. Last year, 124,346 Arizonans received federal subsidies to help them afford private insurance policies and this plan will make healthcare unattainable for many of those individuals. “Under this plan, millions of women all across the country will also lose access to cancer screenings, birth control, and STD testing and treatment. This is simply unacceptable. “Republicans had 8 years to work with Democrats to improve our healthcare system. Instead, they have decided to rush through a repeal of ACA without having a serious plan to consider. I oppose the GOP healthcare bill and will fight it on behalf of working families in Phoenix and communities everywhere.” ####
03.06.2017	“Donald Trump’s first round of executive orders gave us insight into how his administration would treat minorities and vulnerable communities. His first Muslim ban executive order went against the very core values upon which our country was founded and the federal courts struck it down almost immediately. Now, Trump’s updated Muslim ban is just a half-hearted do-over that reintroduces the same discriminatory rules masked in vague procedural jargon. “It is crucial to note that the revised order will still senselessly delay the admission of tens of thousands of Iraqi allies who are currently seeking safe haven here in America. Contrary to the Trump administration’s misleading rhetoric, Iraqi nationals attempting to relocate to the United States through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program would still be impacted by the President’s ill-conceived policy. “By continuing to cast a wide net of bigotry across an entire region, Trump is only hurting the United States’ reputation abroad, endangering people who are fleeing terrorism and fueling the recruitment and propaganda machines of groups like ISIS. This new order is still unconstitutional, it is still un-American and I still oppose it. Today’s updated Muslim ban is Trump’s attempt to put new lipstick on an old pig.” ####
03.02.2017	“There is a culture of dishonesty that permeates through every level of Donald Trump’s administration, from the President himself to almost every member of his senior staff. “Jeff Sessions lied to Congress and to the American people about his contacts with Russian officials in the midst of unprecedented meddling by Russian hackers in our elections. Sessions cannot be trusted to honorably carry out the duties of the office of the Attorney General—including his responsibility to thoroughly investigate potentially unlawful collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government—and should resign immediately. “This is the second time in less than two months that senior Trump officials have flat out lied about their connections to Russia. First, former National Security Advisory Michael Flynn lied about the nature of his private conversations with the Russian ambassador, and now we discover that the man responsible for investigating links between top Trump campaign leaders and Russia is also guilty of a similar lie. “The American people deserve a Justice Department that is untainted by deception and mistrust. I call on Jeff Sessions to resign immediately and for an independent investigation into the Trump team’s ties to Russia.” ####
02.28.2017	“In tonight’s State of the Union address, Donald Trump made numerous promises and exaggerations, much like he did on the campaign trail. However, the first 40 days of this administration have shown that Trump’s talk is cheap. Trump promised to ‘drain the swamp’ but placed federal agencies in the hands of billionaire donors and corporate insiders. Trump promised to protect entitlement programs, but chose a Secretary of Health and Human Services who will help Republican dismantle Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “The only promises Donald Trump has been willing to keep are those that aim to create divisions in our country. He has kept his promises to indiscriminately target immigrant communities for deportation and to desecrate the constitution in order to discriminate against people based on their religion. “Trump tried selling a bad deal to the American people during his speech to Congress, but it’s not worth buying.” ####
02.28.2017	Today, Congressmen Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) stood alongside Angel and Jacqueline Rayos-Garcia in calling on President Donald Trump to face the victims of his immigration policies prior to his address to the joint session of Congress. The mother of the two teenagers, Guadalupe, was deported shortly after Trump issued a new executive order on immigration. Congressmen Gallego and Grijalva issued the following statements after the press conference: Congressman Ruben Gallego: “Angel and Jacqueline are here to demonstrate the real human cost of Trump’s immigration policies. Deporting Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos did not make our country safer; it simply robbed two American kids of their mother. We are calling on Donald Trump and Republican leaders to face these two U.S. citizens and explain to them why they won’t be spending today with their mother on her birthday or why they believe deporting her was in our national interest. “This evening, President Trump will stand before Congress and try to justify his scapegoating of immigrants. He will try to paint the entire immigrant community with a wide brush of bigotry, using insults to demonize hardworking people like Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos. I will be standing proudly with Angel and Jacqueline to remind Trump that Hispanic leaders won’t back down in the face of his crusade of hate.” Congressman Raul Grijalva: “Jacqueline and Angel Rayos-Garcia are the definition of courage. In the three weeks since their mother was deported by the new administration, they’ve become the public face for thousands of others living in fear and suffering under Donald Trump’s draconian immigration policies. While it is politically expedient for this president and congressional Republicans to scapegoat immigrants, Muslims and refugees, the price is heavy for the families who are splintered and the livelihoods that are upended. Deporting a working mother of two does nothing to make our country safe, and it is the opposite of what makes America great. Jacqueline and Angel’s presence in the House Chamber tonight highlights the human toll that is happening across our nation right now.” Congressmen Gallego will be accompanied by Angel Rayos-Garcia to tonight’s State of the Union address while Congressman Grijalva will be accompanied by his sister, Jacqueline. ####
02.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) announced the names of their guests to next week’s joint address to Congress by President Donald Trump. They will be accompanied by Angel and Jacqueline Rayos-Garcia, the children of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, one of the first well-known victims of Trump’s new immigration policies. Rep. Ruben Gallego: “I am honored to announce that I will be joined by Angel Rayos-Garcia, the teenage son of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, during next week’s joint address. Congressman Grijalva and I invited Angel and his sister Jacqueline to the address because we believe it is important for Donald Trump to face the people who have been victimized by his disastrous policies. As a result of Trump’s immigration enforcement efforts, Phoenix lost a long-time member of the community and two young Americans lost their mother. “Unfortunately, the Garcia de Rayos family’s experience is not unique. In the first month of Trump’s presidency, we have seen a wave of raids and arrests that have torn many immigrant families apart. These actions have also caused deep fear and uncertainty in communities across the country. Jacqueline and Angel have courageously spoken out against President Trump’s actions and we look forward to helping elevate their story. By standing alongside Angel and Jacqueline we hope to show immigrants everywhere that they are not alone and that we are prepared to challenge this administration in order to preserve America’s fundamental values and freedoms.” Rep. Raul Grijalva: “I am pleased to welcome Jacqueline Garcia de Rayos as my guest for the president’s joint session address next week. Two weeks ago, our nation was appalled to see the Trump administration target Jacqueline’s mom, Guadalupe – a wife, breadwinner, mother of two and long-time member of the Phoenix community – with deportation while she met voluntarily with ICE officials. Jacqueline and her brother have shown tremendous courage in speaking out against Trump’s abhorrent immigration policies, which recent DHS memos have made clear are nothing short of mass deportation. Their example is a bright light of hope for immigrant communities across this country who are fearful that Trump will come for them next. Their fight is all of our fight, and I am proud to stand side-by-side with them in opposition to these atrocious policies.” ####
02.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) announced the names of their guests to next week’s State of the Union Address. They will be accompanied by Angel and Jaqueline Garcia de Rayos, the children of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, one of the first well-known victims of President Trump’s new immigration policies. The issued the following statements: Rep. Ruben Gallego: “I am honored to announce that I will be joined by Angel Garcia de Rayos, the teenage son of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, during next week’s State of the Union Address. Congressman Grijalva and I invited Angel and his sister Jaqueline to the address because we believe it is important for Donald Trump to face the people who have been victimized by his disastrous policies. As a result of Trump’s immigration enforcement efforts, Phoenix lost a long-time member of the community and two young Americans lost their mother. “Unfortunately, the Garcia de Rayos family’s experience is not unique. In the first month of Trump’s presidency, we have seen a wave of raids and arrests that have torn many immigrant families apart. These actions have also caused deep fear and uncertainty in communities across the country. Jaqueline and Angel have courageously spoken out against President Trump’s actions and we look forward to helping elevate their story. By standing alongside Angel and Jaqueline we hope to show immigrants everywhere that they are not alone and that we are prepared to challenge this administration in order to preserve America’s fundamental values and freedoms.” Rep. Raul Grijalva: “I am pleased to welcome Jaqueline Garcia de Rayos as my guest for the president’s joint session address next week. Two weeks ago, our nation was appalled to see the Trump administration target Jaqueline’s mom, Guadalupe – a wife, breadwinner, mother of two and long-time member of the Phoenix community – with deportation while she met voluntarily with ICE officials. Jaqueline and her brother have shown tremendous courage in speaking out against Trump’s abhorrent immigration policies, which recent DHS memos have made clear are nothing short of mass deportation. Their example is a bright light of hope for immigrant communities across this country who are fearful that Trump will come for them next. Their fight is all of our fight, and I am proud to stand side-by-side with them in opposition to these atrocious policies.” ####
02.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement regarding the Department of Homeland Security’s new immigration enforcement guidelines: “These new guidelines tell us one thing: the Trump administration is willing to go after just about any member of the immigrant community. Last week, ICE arrested a DACA recipient and continues to hold him in custody without showing sufficient cause for his detention. Now the administration releases guidelines that lay the groundwork for mass deportation and tries to sell it to the American people as business-as-usual. This is far from the truth. “Under these new rules, ICE can go after people who have not been found guilty of committing a crime and remove them from the country within days of their arrest. It also strips anyone who is not a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident of many due process protections. These are not the values our country was founded on. “I am dedicated to holding the Trump administration accountable and will continue to call out these policies for what they are: un-American.” ####
02.17.2017	“The men and women of the U.S. National Guard sign up to defend our nation and the ideals it represents, not to be an extension of Donald Trump’s propaganda. It’s shameful that the Trump administration would use our National Guard to distract from the questions surrounding his campaign’s past relationship with Russia and the growing calls for an investigation from members of both parties. As a military veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will fight to make sure that our National Guard is used to uphold the safety, and integrity, of our homeland. I hope that Governor Doug Ducey will join other governors in voicing their opposition to this repugnant, un-American idea. “ ####
02.15.2017	“The arrest of Daniel Ramirez Medina confirms what we have all suspected: the Trump administration is indiscriminately targeting undocumented immigrants, including Dreamers, in raids across the country. Daniel Ramirez Medina should be released immediately. “Mr. Medina’s detention raises serious concerns about the legality of ICE’s deportation efforts. Medina was arrested even after identifying himself as a legal U.S. resident, and was reportedly pressured to confess to unfounded accusations by ICE agents. If President Trump truly believes in the rule of law, upholding our country’s 4th Amendment rights would be a good place to start. “Illegally detaining Dreamers won’t make America safer; it will only promote distrust and fear in immigrant communities, making them less likely to cooperate with local law enforcement to keep dangerous criminals off the streets. “When asked about Dreamers in a recent interview with Time, Donald Trump said he would ‘work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud.’ Arresting and deporting any of the 750,000 Dreamers who are currently contributing to our economy is nothing to be proud of. “ICE should release Daniel Ramirez Medina immediately and brief Congress on the full scope of their current operations.” ####
02.10.2017	“General Michael Flynn sought to undermine the foreign policy of a sitting American President. And then he lied – repeatedly and egregiously – about his actions. Donald Trump should fire Michael Flynn immediately. “Flynn communicated with high-ranking Russian officials both before and after a presidential election that, according to our intelligence community, Russia actively worked to influence on behalf of Donald Trump. When President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia in response to its unprecedented efforts to disrupt our democracy, Flynn made a series of phone calls to the Russian Ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, offering assurances that the incoming administration would lift these measures after Trump was sworn-in. “General Flynn then compounded this outrageous misconduct by lying on multiple occasions about the nature of his conversations with Kislyak, claiming that sanctions had never been discussed. Not only did Flynn mislead Congress and the American people, he also apparently deceived Vice President Mike Pence, who made false statements on Flynn’s behalf in an interview with Face the Nation. “At a minimum, Flynn recklessly violated the sacred principle that America only has one president at a time. But a compelling case can also be made that Flynn broke federal law by collaborating with foreign officials while still a private citizen. “The American people deserve competence – not corruption – from the leaders entrusted with our national security. They deserve to be told the truth by the men and women who serve in the White House. And they deserve a full accounting of how and when President Trump’s advisors colluded with a foreign power that sought to alter the outcome of an American election. “For all of these reasons, President Trump should fire General Flynn.” ####
02.09.2017	"La deportación de la Sra. Rayos sería una tragedia para su familia joven. Donald Trump está separando cruelmente a una madre y a un sostén de la familia de sus hijos estadounidenses. En vez de tratar de mejorar nuestra economía o proteger a los estadounidenses de verdaderos peligros, las políticas de la administración de Trump están persiguiendo a miembros de la comunidad inmigrante que siguen la ley. Guadalupe García de Rayos, cuyo estatus legal ha sido conocido por el Servicio de Inmigración y Control de Aduanas (ICE) desde el 2008, se ha mantenido en contacto con la agencia por casi una década. Sin embargo, menos de un mes después del comienzo de la presidencia de Trump, ella fue detenida y será expulsada del país. Esto es indignante y espantoso. "Donald Trump ha elegido hacer un chivo expiatoria de la comunidad inmigrante en vez de trabajar con el Congreso para aprobar una reforma migratoria integral. Estos son miembros productivos de la comunidad de Phoenix y no nos vamos a quedar callados mientras que Trump implemente sus políticas intolerantes. "El caso de Sra. Rayos demuestra que, bajo el gobierno de Trump's, uno puede estar rezando en la iglesia en un momento y ser detenido para deportación en el próximo.” Ayer, Congresista Gallego le envió una carta a ICE pidiendo que se suspenda la orden de deportación de Guadalupe García de Rayos. ####
02.09.2017	“The deportation of Ms. Rayos would be a tragedy for her young family. Donald Trump is cruelly ripping a mother and a breadwinner away from her American citizen children. "Instead of focusing on improving our economy or keeping Americans safe from real danger, the Trump administration’s policies are persecuting law abiding members of the immigrant community. Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, whose legal status has been known to Immigration and Customs Enforcement since 2008, has consistently checked in with the agency for nearly a decade. Yet less than a month into Trump’s presidency, she has been detained and will be removed from the country. This is outrageous and appalling. “Donald Trump has chosen to scapegoat the immigrant community instead of working with Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform. These are productive and contributing members of the Phoenix community and we will not stand by as Trump implements his bigoted policies. “Ms. Rayos’ case proves that, in Trump’s America, you could be praying in church one moment, and targeted for deportation the next.” Yesterday, Rep. Gallego sent a letter to ICE asking for a stay on Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos’ deportation order. ####
02.09.2017	“Tom Price is cut from the same cloth as Donald Trump. When facing the choice of either looking out for the American people or padding their own bottom lines, Trump and Price will always stick it to the American people. As we have learned in recent weeks, Tom Price enriched himself in Congress by investing in the very same drug companies he worked to protect. Tom Price also accepted a privileged offer to buy discounted shares of a foreign drug company—an opportunity that was extended to fewer than 20 Americans. This is simply outrageous. “In Congress, Tom Price has relentlessly advocated for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, even though it would leave 30 million Americans without healthcare coverage. Under Tom Price’s extreme agenda, insurance companies would be free to deny coverage to anyone with a preexisting condition and charge women higher premiums than men. “Tom Price’s health care agenda is a war on the working class of this country. Not only has he led the fight to repeal the ACA, Price has fought for years to gut Medicaid and to privatize Medicare. “Can the American people trust Donald Trump and Tom Price to look out for them? Absolutely not.” ####
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) was renamed a Vice-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. As a Vice-Chair, Rep. Gallego will assist the Co-Chairs in their push to promote and protect LGBT equality in Congress. The bipartisan LGBT Equality Caucus has a total of 102 members and stands ready to defend the progress that has been achieved for LGBT Americans in recent years. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I am honored to help lead the LGBT Equality Caucus in its fight against discrimination and prejudice. We’ve made significant strides towards ensuring equal rights and protections for all Americans, including members of the LGBT community, and are prepared to fight against any attempt to roll back that progress. “I am ready to stand with the 102 members of our caucus to defend marriage equality and nondiscrimination protections. I was proud to co-sponsor the Equality Act in the last Congress and will join my colleagues in a renewed push for pro-LGBT equality legislation in the current session. “Our caucus will also play a critical role in holding the Trump Administration accountable on LGBT issues. While President Trump says he has no intention of discriminating against LGBT Americans, every member of his cabinet opposes nondiscrimination protections. He has also nominated a Supreme Court candidate who has a deeply concerning record on LGBT rights. “I want to thank the Co-Chairs of the LGBT Equality Caucus for their leadership and look forward to continuing our work in the 115th Congress.” ####
02.07.2017	“Jeff Sessions was selected by a bigoted President not in spite of—but because of—his bigoted record over three decades in public life. “According to the NAACP, Jeff Sessions is a man whose professional life has been defined by ‘an unrelenting hostility toward civil rights and racial justice.’ For any other president in recent memory, such a record would be disqualifying. Unfortunately, this pattern of racial animosity made Sessions the perfect choice in Donald Trump’s eyes to serve as our nation’s top law enforcement official. “In 1986, when Jeff Sessions sought an appointment to the federal bench, it emerged that he had derisively referred to an African American attorney as ‘boy’ and had advised the same lawyer to ‘be careful what you say to white folks.’ For these comments and other troubling statements on matters pertaining to race, the Republican-controlled Senate saw fit to deny Sessions a federal judgeship. I would encourage Republican senators to ponder whether a man considered too racist to be entrusted with a judicial position in 1986 deserves to wield the vast powers of the Attorney General of the United States in 2017. “I believe Donald Trump and his Republican allies will launch the most aggressive assault on voting rights in a generation. In his first week in office, the President peddled lies about massive voter fraud. These lies lay the groundwork for Jeff Sessions, as Attorney General, to strip voting rights from millions of African-Americans, Latinos, and other minorities. “For the sake of our democracy, the Senate must block Jeff Sessions’ confirmation as Attorney General.” ####
01.31.2017	Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “Many of my Democratic colleagues in the Senate are anxiously waiting to see who Donald Trump will pick to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. They want to probe the selection’s record and scrutinize his or her decisions before rendering judgment. While that certainly would have been a defensible approach in the past, it’s absolutely the wrong one today. Senate Democrats should announce immediately that they intend to filibuster Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. It’s not just that Trump will undoubtedly select an ideologue to serve on our nation’s highest court. It’s not just that his pick will unquestionably prioritize corporate profits over the welfare of working families or seek to curtail the ability of women to make choices about their own bodies. No, beyond these weighty considerations about how Trump’s pick will rule from the bench lies a basic truth ignored by media: Republicans have broken all kind of norms in their pursuit of power and we must check them. By blockading an accomplished, centrist jurist in Merrick Garland, Senate Republicans disregarded the norms that sustain American democracy. But instead of invoking the so-called ‘nuclear option’ or making a recess appointment to the court, Democrats dithered while Republican won a major victory. Our party’s response was weak and ineffectual then – it must be strong and unwavering today. At a time when our American values are coming under sustained assault, Democrats must draw a line in the sand on the Senate floor. Mitch McConnell routinely relied on the power of the filibuster to block President Obama’s pursuit of progress. Now, Democrats must employ the same tactics to thwart Donald Trump’s authoritarian tendencies and extreme agenda. With control of the Supreme Court at stake and in the face of unprecedented attacks on our nation’s democratic norms, Democrats must rise to the challenge. Senate Democrats must not delay in declaring their intention to filibuster Donald Trump’s nominee.” ###
01.30.2017	Congressman Ruben Gallego, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement: “I was distressed to learn of the President’s decision to elevate his chief political strategist Stephen Bannon – a white nationalist with no national security experience – to the National Security Council’s Principals Committee. We are only 10 days into the Trump Administration. The Trump Administration has not had to confront a single major crisis that is not of its own making, and it is already clear that President Trump and his senior aides are in way over their heads. Now with the President’s decision to reshuffle the National Security Council, American foreign policy is in the hands of Stephen Bannon – a racist, anti-Semitic political operative – and Michael Flynn, an Islamophobe who supports torture. The courageous men and women who serve our nation in uniform deserve better than Bannon and Flynn at the National Security Council.”
12.12.2016	Phoenix, AZ – The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced that the City of Phoenix Housing Department has been awarded a $452,000 grant to help low-income youth and their families to apply for federal student aid for college. The “Education Navigators” program allocates grant funding to provide youth living in public housing with individual assistance to help them pursue post-secondary educational opportunities. Education Navigators are deployed to public housing sites and provide support with the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), financial literacy and college readiness, postsecondary program applications, and post-acceptance assistance. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “At a time when many young people are struggling to enter the job market, this grant award will help expand access to education and training opportunities. This new funding will help our local youth to obtain the guidance and support they need to pursue further education and a career, putting them on a path to success. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix Housing Department on receiving this significant award, which will help young people in our community to realize their full potential.” ###
12.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed a bill that includes an amendment that will require the Federal Aviation Administration to re-evaluate the flight path changes implemented at Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport in 2014. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “The aircraft noise resulting from flight path changes at Sky Harbor has caused severe disruptions for many of my constituents - eroding their quality of life, impacting their health, lowering their property values, and disrupting their businesses. “The language in the NDAA is a step in the right direction toward holding the FAA accountable for the consequences of their opaque decision-making process and making sure they are responsive to our concerns. “I want to thank Senators Flake and McCain for taking steps to address this ongoing problem. I am committed to working with them and my colleagues in the House until the FAA takes action and peace and quiet is restored to the greater Phoenix Metropolitan area.” ###
12.05.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s announcement that he will nominate General James Mattis as Defense Secretary: “As a fellow Marine, I greatly admire General James Mattis’ dedication and leadership. We all should be incredibly grateful for his many years of service to our nation. “As a veteran, I believe strongly in the principle of civilian leadership of the military. Current law requires that a military officer be out of active duty for at least seven years before taking the job of defense secretary. I do not believe this long-standing check should be cast aside, and I will oppose a waiver of this rule, even for someone as exceptionally qualified as General Mattis.” Rep. Ruben Gallego is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, and served in Iraq with the combat unit Lima 3/25. He currently serves on the House Armed Services Committee. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, DC- Yesterday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) selected its leadership team for the 115th Congress. Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham will chair the CHC, Congressman Joaquin Castro, Congressman Ruben Gallego, and Congressman Pete Aguilar will join her on the leadership team. 115th Congress -- CHC Leadership Team CHC Chair: Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) CHC First Vice Chair: Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20) CHC Second Vice Chair: Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) CHC Whip: Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31) CHC Chairwoman Michelle Lujan Grisham: “I want to thank my colleagues for entrusting me with the great responsibility of leading the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the 115th Congress. As the next Chairwoman, I intend to continue building on the many accomplishments we have achieved this Congress and ensure that the Caucus is leading the fight to support Hispanic communities and protect families across this country. “CHC will face many challenges given the outcome of the presidential election and the political environment in the next Congress. However, now more than ever, the CHC needs to demonstrate unity and strength in order to effectively combat dangerous rhetoric and regressive policies proposed by President-elect Trump aimed to tear families apart and hurt the communities we represent. “Hispanics represent $1.9 trillion in purchasing power, and we will shape the future of our great nation. Hispanic businesses have been a driving force in my home state of New Mexico; we have specifically seen significant growth among Hispanic women entrepreneurs. It’s up to the CHC to develop a strong economic agenda to highlight the economic impact of Hispanic communities and create more opportunities for Hispanic-owned business and entrepreneurs. “I am proud to say that CHC received unprecedented support from voters in this election, which increased our membership to a record-breaking total of 31 Caucus members. We must build off this momentum and support, and I believe that the CHC has an obligation to step up and lead during these uncertain times.” CHC First Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “I am grateful to my CHC colleagues for entrusting me with this new responsibility. As we look ahead to the 115th Congress, great challenges loom. We will need to contend with a new administration and a President who displayed appalling hostility toward the Hispanic community throughout his campaign. More than ever, the CHC must be united, determined, and strategic in its efforts to improve educational outcomes, expand economic opportunity, and pass meaningful immigration reform. I am eager to tackle these and other matters with my fellow Caucus members. I thank outgoing CHC Chair Linda Sánchez for her leadership, and I look forward to working with incoming CHC Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham to advance our Caucus’ goals in Congress.” CHC Second Vice Chair Ruben Gallego: “I am honored to have been elected to serve as 2nd Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for the 115th Congress. I look forward to working with my fellow CHC members and Congressional leadership on issues that are important to the Latino community, including expanding educational and economic opportunities, protecting immigrant families, and making sure our seniors and veterans have the care they need and the benefits they have earned.” CHC Whip Pete Aguilar: “I’m grateful to have been chosen to serve as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The CHC’s priorities include comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship, creating good-paying jobs, accessing affordable health care, and investing in quality education for our kids – all issues that are significant in my community. He added, “San Bernardino is representative of many of the regions throughout the nation that would benefit from these priorities, so I’m glad to take on a new role to help push those policies forward.” ### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
12.01.2016	Washington, DC – Today, House Democrats passed two motions, introduced by Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Kathleen Rice (NY-04), requiring key leadership positions to be elected by Members of the Caucus, instead of appointed by the Democratic Leader. The Caucus will now directly elect the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, as well as three co-chairs of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. Reps. Gallego, Moulton, and Rice issued the following joint statement: “In the wake of the 2016 election, it is more clear than ever that the Democratic Caucus needs to bring more voices into leadership, with new ideas that will help us to forge a strong path forward, evolve as a Party and earn back the support of the American people. “The conversations we have had over the past few weeks about the future of our Caucus were difficult and contentious, but also necessary and inspiring. As a result, our Members worked together to select a leadership team and make dramatic reforms that will increase the diversity of our leadership team and make our leadership accountable to our Members. “In order to be successful, all Members of the Democratic Caucus need to play a role in recruitment, messaging, fundraising and strategy. The changes adopted today are a true victory that will help us to empower our Members and make our Caucus stronger. “Democrats can’t afford to back down in the face of a Donald Trump presidency and the regressive agenda he stands for. Today’s outcome was a good first step towards our goal of reclaiming the majority in 2018.” ###
11.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego announced his support for Rep. Tim Ryan to serve as the next Democratic Leader. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “One of the unmistakable messages of the 2016 election is that the American people are fed up with business as usual in Washington. At this critical juncture, we face a choice – will we preserve a broken status quo or will we set our party on a new course? “I believe we must do more than simply paper over the cracks. We can’t just say the right things – we must take concrete steps to move our party in the right direction. That’s why I’m proud to announce my support for Congressman Tim Ryan for Democratic Leader. “Congressman Ryan has been a relentless advocate for working families and progressive policies. He is young and energetic, and I believe he will lead our Caucus in standing up to President-elect Trump and his administration and their plans to roll back civil liberties and our country’s social advancement. “Congressman Ryan has also proposed far-reaching reforms on how our Caucus is governed. These reforms will bring more voices into leadership, with new ideas that will help us to energize the diverse base of our party. He has emphasized accountability, and demonstrated that he is willing to be answerable to our Members. “Nancy Pelosi helped deliver great progressive victories like the Affordable Care Act during her Speakership. She has steered the Democratic Caucus through a series of tough fights, and I respect and admire her long record of dedicated service to our party and our country. I was heartened to read that she is now heeding the younger voices in our caucus. However, let’s be clear: these changes are necessary but not sufficient. “We can’t walk away from the 2016 election without learning an important lesson. What we’re doing now is not working. We have an opportunity for change, and we should take it. I encourage my Democratic colleagues to join me in supporting Tim Ryan for Democratic Leader.” ###
11.16.2016	Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Alma Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Donald Beyer (VA-8) Sanford Bishop (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) Brendan Boyle (PA-13) Robert Brady (PA-1) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Michael Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-At large) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) Katherine Clark (MA-5) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Danny Davis (IL-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Ted Deutch (FL-21) Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Dwight Evans (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) John Garamendi (CA-3) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Michael Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph Kennedy (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Gwen Moore (WI-4) Seth Moulton (MA-6) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-1) Richard Nolan (MN-8) Donald Norcross (NJ-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Kathleen Rice (NY-4) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Bobby Scott (VA-3) Jose Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Timothy Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-At large) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3)
11.14.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) signed a revised peace deal designed to end more than 50 years of violence which has claimed more than 220,000 lives and displaced over 6 million people. An earlier peace deal was unexpectedly rejected by Colombian voters during a national referendum in October. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I want to congratulate President Juan Manuel Santos for quickly and successfully renegotiating a peace deal that will bring an end to the suffering and violence that the people of Colombia have endured for more than half a century. “The new agreement addresses key concerns of those who opposed the original accord and goes even further to provide reparations to victims. “A successful peace negotiation is a victory for the Colombian people. I remain committed to ensuring that Colombia can continue to count on strong support from Congress as our ally takes critical steps toward a lasting peace.” Congressman Ruben Gallego is the first Colombian-American Member of Congress. ###
10.12.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Labor will award Friendly House $911,494 through its YouthBuild program to provide job training and educational opportunities to youth from disadvantaged backgrounds who wish to pursue careers in construction. Participants in the YouthBuild program will earn industry-recognized certifications and gain construction skills training to build houses for homeless or low-income families in partnership with Habitat for Humanity. The Southwest Skills Center at Estrella Community College will also partner with Friendly House for this project. Friendly House also received a $1 million grant from the Department of Labor in July that will allow them to provide workforce development and adult education services to disconnected youth who wish to pursue careers in criminal justice. Rep. Gallego said, “The YouthBuild program will help young people to gain the education and skills they need to obtain a good job and help them to become engaged in their community. I want to congratulate Friendly House on receiving this significant award, and thank them for the work they are doing in our community to expand access to education and training opportunities and to help disconnected youth realize their full potential.” Friendly House President & CEO Martin Quintana said, “We are excited to have been awarded this grant. It will enable Friendly House to serve young adults that are interested in becoming involved in the construction field. During the last 97 years, Friendly House has established solid relationships and an excellent program reputation in the community, which we believe played a key role in being awarded this funding opportunity. This is the second Department of Labor grant awarded to Friendly House in the past three months. We have been blessed with this opportunity to work with and serve our community.” ###
10.11.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Transportation announced today that the City of Phoenix has been awarded a $2 million grant by the department’s Federal Transit Administration to plan for additional development in the South Central Light Rail Extension Corridor. The grant will allow the city to plan for improved pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, while preserving local housing affordability and assisting local small businesses. The city’s planning efforts will involve key partners, including Valley Metro, the Maricopa Association of Governments, and local housing and economic development organizations. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “Thanks to this new funding, Phoenix residents will soon have safer ways to walk or bike to work and school. By providing easier access to bus and light rail lines, the project will help link members of the South Central community to employment centers, schools, hospitals, and other vital public services. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix on receiving this significant award, which will help it to make great strides in its mission to transform the South Central corridor in order to make this neighborhood a better place to live and work.” ###
10.07.2016	Washington, DC – Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday for his work to negotiate a peace deal to end a half-century of conflict with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I want to congratulate President Juan Manuel Santos on being awarded the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize, a well-deserved recognition of his bold leadership and continued determination throughout the long and arduous peace process. “Though challenges remain, I am confident that both parties will reach a deal that will address the remaining concerns of the Colombian people. I recently had the privilege of traveling to Colombia to witness the vote on the peace deal, and was struck by the Colombian people’s commitment to achieving peace, and their resilience and capacity for forgiveness. “After standing with Colombia through decades of war, the United States must continue to stand with the Colombian people as they continue to work for a just and lasting peace. As the first Colombian American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, I remain committed to strengthening the ties between our nations and ensuring that the Colombian government can continue to count on strong support from Congress at this critical juncture in their nation’s history.” Congressman Ruben Gallego is the first Colombian-American Member of Congress. ###
10.06.2016	Washington, DC – Senator John McCain said on Tuesday that he would remove language in the National Defense Authorization Act that would have undermined the long-standing veteran preference in federal hiring. The highly controversial language formerly backed by Sen. McCain would have prevented veterans from benefitting from the preference system if they were already employed by the federal government. In June, the House of Representatives approved an amendment to the financial services appropriations bill introduced by Rep. Ruben Gallego that was designed to protect that program. Rep. Gallego’s amendment received the support of the vast majority of the House, with a 409 to 14 vote. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I strongly believe veterans who served our nation in uniform deserve the chance to serve our nation in the federal government. Under McCain’s proposal, if a particular job wasn’t a good fit, or if a veteran wanted to move up the ladder at a different agency, he or she would have been deprived of this benefit. “When I returned from Iraq, I saw friends and fellow Marines struggle to find employment and readjust to civilian life. The veterans preference system has helped many courageous Americans to find good jobs when they return from war so that they can provide for their families. It helps to create a fair playing field by compensating veterans for the time they spent fighting overseas instead of working in government or the private sector. “I want to thank the veterans organizations that fought to protect this important system. I also want to thank my colleagues, Reps. Ann Kirkpatrick, Mark Takano and Pete Aguilar, for helping me lead that fight in the House of Representatives. “Our veterans earn this preference through their hard work and sacrifice. I am glad that Sen. McCain has finally abandoned his misguided efforts to put this program at risk.” ###
10.03.2016	Washington, DC – Voters in Colombia rejected a landmark peace agreement between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Though I was surprised at the outcome of yesterday’s vote, I know that the Colombian people are committed to finding a path to a just and lasting peace. It is extremely encouraging that both the Colombian government and the FARC have indicated that they will continue to work to achieve that goal. “I had the great privilege of traveling to Colombia to witness the vote, and it was inspiring to see the democratic process in action. Based on my conversations with Colombians on both sides of the referendum, I came away more impressed than ever with their resilience and capacity for forgiveness. “As a combat veteran, I know firsthand that the emotional wounds of war heal slowly. After more than half a century of violence, the United States has a responsibility to continue to support Colombia as its leaders seek a way forward. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that we provide that critical assistance in the difficult months ahead.” ###
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego sent a letter to Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos to congratulate him for concluding the peace accord with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and to express support for continued American assistance to Colombia as the government begins the difficult work of implementing the agreement. The full letter can be found here. The letter was signed by 63 Members of Congress: Reps. Gallego, Byrne, Rooney, Poe, Issa, Gosar, Buddy Carter, Engel, Lowey, Adam Smith, Conyers, McGovern, Farr, Hank Johnson, McDermott, Cicilline, Pocan, Keating, Wasserman Schultz, Dingell, Crowley, Serrano, Ruppersberger, Torres, Beyer, Takano, David Price, Honda, DeFazio, Norton, DeSaulnier, Yarmuth, Castor, Schakowsky, Hastings, Lowenthal, Cardenas, Frankel, Cartwright, Israel, Van Hollen, Lee, Edwards, Meeks, Castro, Garamendi, Capuano, Titus, Waters, Polis, Gutierrez, Watson Coleman, Deutch, Grayson, Himes, Linda Sanchez, Doggett, Welch, Pingree, Ellison, Grijalva, Rush, and O’Rourke. Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) said, “The historic peace agreement signed this week will put an end to suffering and violence that the people of Colombia have endured for over half a century. But significant challenges remain, and Congress must support Colombia during the implementation and reconciliation process. At this critical moment, Democrats and Republicans should come together to ensure that America is just as committed to helping Colombia secure peace as we were to helping Colombia wage war.” Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) said, “I applaud the signing of the Colombia peace agreement. This is a major achievement and a significant step toward peace and stability in the region. Colombia is a strong partner of the United States, and I am committed to continuing to support our neighbors in Colombia as the process moves forward.” “We are happy to see bipartisan U.S. Congressional support for the Colombia’s peace accord and commitment by U.S. lawmakers to provide robust assistance as post-accord implementation moves forward,” said Gimena Sanchez, Senior Associate, Washington Office on Latin America. “The peace accords offer Colombians a second chance on this earth: to build a nation in which ideas are defended with words, not weapons. The United States should stand by and support Colombia as it implements these accords so that a just and lasting peace takes root,” said Lisa Haugaard, Executive Director, Latin America Working Group. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-CA) introduced the Relief and Investment for Student Entrepreneurs (RISE) Act. The bill will make it easier for millennials to launch new business ventures by offering a 3-year deferment period for federal student loans, interest-free, to entrepreneurs who have earned a college degree in the past five years. The bill also incentivizes job creation in economically-challenged communities by enabling young people who start businesses in those areas to receive up to $17,500 in student loan relief. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “For far too many young people, crushing student loan debt has put the dream of starting a small business on hold. By relieving some of that burden, we can help grow our economy and bring jobs to areas where Americans are struggling to find work. That’s why I’m proud to introduce the RISE Act. Entrepreneurship has long been driving force in our economy, and we shouldn’t let student debt stand in the way of job creation.” Rep. Eric Swalwell said, “As chair of Future Forum, a group of young Democratic Members of Congress focused on the issues and opportunities important to millennials, I have heard a familiar refrain from young people across the nation – that the weight of student loan debt is holding them back from making major life decisions, like starting a business or buying a home. The RISE Act helps to encourage young people to pursue new business ventures by lightening the heavy burden of student debt. It takes an important step toward preserving the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit so characteristic of our nation, and I appreciate the opportunity to lend my support.” ###
09.27.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced today that the City of Phoenix Housing Department has been awarded a $2 million grant through its Jobs-Plus Initiative Program. The grant will help low-income public housing residents to secure higher paying jobs by connecting them with employment opportunities, educational advancement, and financial literacy services. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “At a time when many working families are struggling to make ends meet, this grant award will help Phoenix residents to obtain the training and skills they need to find and compete for higher paying jobs. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix Housing Department on receiving this significant award, which will help put more hardworking people on the path to success.” ###
09.26.2016	Washington, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el acuerdo de paz entre el gobierno de Colombia y las Fuerzas Armadas Revoluncionarias de Colombia (FARC): “El histórico acuerdo de paz firmado hoy pondrá fin al sufrimiento y la violencia que se ha prolongado durante más de medio siglo. Este acontecimiento es indicativo no solo del compromiso del gobierno de Colombia a la paz, sino también de la notable capacidad de los colombianos para sanar las heridas y promover el perdón. Quiero felicitar al president Juan Manuel Santos, quien demostró un liderazgo extraordinario durante este largo proceso. “A pesar de este éxito, siguen existiendo retos. Es importante que el gobierno de Colombia ahora asegure que el acuerdo de paz se lleve a cabo de una manera que promueva los derechos de las víctimas así como cumplir sus demandas de verdad y justicia. “Después de permanecer con Colombia a través de décadas de guerra, los Estados Unidos debe seguir apoyando a los colombianos a medida que trabajan para construir paz justa y duradera. Asistencia robusta será fundamental para la implementación de este acuerdo, y me mantengo comprometido a asegurar que el gobierno de Colombia pueda seguir contando con fuerte apoyo del Congreso en este tan importante momento de su historia.” El Congresista Ruben Gallego es el primer miembro Colombo Americana del Congreso. ###
09.26.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) will sign a landmark peace agreement. If ratified by the Colombian people, the agreement will end more than 50 years of violent conflict that claimed more than 220,000 lives and displaced over 6 million people. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “The historic peace agreement signed today will put an end to the suffering and violence that the people of Colombia have endured for over half a century. This milestone is indicative not only of the Colombian government’s commitment to peace, but also of the Colombian people’s remarkable capacity for healing and forgiveness. I want to congratulate President Juan Manuel Santos, who demonstrated bold leadership throughout this long and arduous process. “Despite this success, significant challenges remain. It is important that the Colombian government now ensures that the peace agreement is carried out in a manner that will promote the rights of the victims and honor their demands for truth and justice. “After standing with Colombia through decades of war, the United States must continue to stand with the Colombian people as they work to build a just and lasting peace. Robust assistance will be critical to implementing this agreement, and I remain committed to ensuring that the Colombian government can continue to count on strong support from Congress at this important time in their history.” Congressman Ruben Gallego is the first Colombian-American Member of Congress. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – The City of Phoenix Fire Department was awarded more than $9 million by FEMA’s Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grants program to hire 50 firefighters over the next two years. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “Phoenix firefighters regularly put their own safety on the line to protect the lives and property of our city’s residents. This new grant will allow the City of Phoenix Fire Department to hire dozens of new firefighters to help keep our community safe and improve our emergency services. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix Fire Department on receiving this significant award, and thank Fire Chief Kara Kalkbrenner for her leadership in making sure that her department can quickly and effectively respond to calls for assistance.” ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on the passing of former Arizona Gov. Rose Mofford: “I am saddened to hear of the passing of Gov. Rose Mofford, Arizona’s first female governor and a true public servant. Gov. Mofford demonstrated an unwavering dedication to the people of Arizona over more than 50 years of service, and served as a role model to many of our leaders. Her ability to transcend partisanship for the sake of bettering our communities is something to which we should all aspire. “As we mourn her loss, we also celebrate Gov. Mofford’s life, leadership and legacy. My prayers are with her family and friends during this time.” ###
09.06.2016	Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in celebration of Labor Day: "On Labor Day, let's celebrate the hardworking men and women of America and reflect on the tremendous progress that the labor movement has made to improve the lives of working families. "Let's thank those who sacrificed and who sometimes were threatened or fired for standing up for the idea that Americans should have the ability to work hard and provide for their families, and do so with dignity and security. "And let's commit to keep fighting - for a higher minimum wage, for policies that will allow hardworking immigrants to come out of the shadows, and for fair trade agreements that will protect American workers and grow our economy. "Those who are able to work should be able to find good jobs with safe working conditions and fair pay that allow them to take care of their families and improve their quality of life. That's the American Dream that we celebrate this and every Labor Day." "On Labor Day, let's celebrate the hardworking men and women of America and reflect on the tremendous progress that the labor movement has made to improve the lives of working families.
09.01.2016	Phoenix, AZ – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego delivered the first-ever “State of the District” speech for Arizona’s 7th Congressional District, highlighting issues affecting local businesses and Arizona’s economy. Congressman Gallego provided an update on his work in Congress during his first term, including expanding access to mental health care services for veterans and tackling student loan debt with a debt-free college plan. He spoke about his efforts to boost local transportation and infrastructure improvements that will create middle class jobs in Phoenix and spur local economic development. Congressman Gallego also addressed upcoming challenges that he said he plans to tackle in the coming months and years. Those plans include working with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to lead the fight for comprehensive immigration reform and repairing and expanding the social safety net for those who become ill or lose their jobs. The event took place this morning at The Vintage 45 in the historic Downtown Warehouse District. It was organized by Local First Arizona, a statewide non-profit organization working to strengthen communities by supporting and growing locally owned businesses. For a full transcript of Congressman Gallego’s remarks as prepared, please contact Christina Carr at christina.carr@mail.house.gov. ###
08.31.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Health and Human Services announced today that Chicanos Por La Causa has been awarded an $800,000 grant by the Administration for Children and Families’ Community Economic Development program to support job creation and economic development in Arizona. The new funding will help CPLC provide comprehensive assistance for local entrepreneurs to establish and grow current operations. The project expects to create 40 new full-time employment opportunities, most of which will be designated for low-income Arizonans. Rep. Ruben Gallego sent a letter in April to Mark Greenberg, Acting Assistant Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families, in support of CPLC’s grant application. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “At a time when working families are struggling to make ends meet, this project will allow CPLC to invest in and help grow local businesses that will create jobs for low-income Arizonans. “I want to congratulate CPLC on receiving this significant award, which will help the organization to continue its important economic and community development work in Arizona.” ###
08.31.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced more than $300 million in grant awards under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program to help low-income veteran families prevent homelessness. Veterans’ support programs in Arizona will receive more than $8 million in funding under the program to support outreach, case management, and other assistance to prevent veteran homelessness and rapidly re-house those who do become homeless. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “When I returned from Iraq, I saw friends and fellow Marines struggle to find employment and steady housing. Readjusting to civilian life isn’t easy. Too many veterans and their families find themselves without a place to live as they tackle the mental, physical and social challenges that veterans face when they return from combat duty. “I am glad that this new funding from the VA will help the many Arizona organizations who are working so hard to help prevent and eliminate veteran homelessness.” ###
08.24.2016	Washington, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el acuerdo entre el gobierno de Colombia y las Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC): “El acuerdo de paz anunciado hoy entre el gobierno Colombiano y los FARC marca al fin al conflict más largo en nuestro hemisferio. “Este acuerdo es el resultado de muchos años de arduo trabajo y compromiso. Quiero darle las gracias a los negociadores por poner atención especial a los derechos de las víctimas de ambos lados. Con cualquier conflict siempre hay desafíos por delante; mientras Colombia se recupera de este tiempo de dificultad en su historia, espero que la nación de una pasa darle la bienvenida a tan anhelado period de paz. “Quiero felicitar al presidente Santos por su liderazgo en buscar una resolución a justa a este conflict. También hago un llamado al Congreso para que hagan el compromiso de apoyar a nuestro aliado durante este crítico tiempo en la historia de Colombia.” ###
08.24.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Colombian government and the FARC rebel group signed a historic peace accord, ending more than five decades of conflict in the country. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “The peace deal announced today between the Colombian government and the FARC rebel group marks the end of the longest running conflict in our hemisphere. "This deal is the result of many years of hard work and compromise, and I thank the negotiators for paying special attention to the rights of victims on all sides. As with any major conflict, there will be challenges ahead as Colombia recovers from this time of turmoil and it is my hope that the nation will come together as they welcome this long-awaited peace. "I extend my congratulations to President Santos for his bold leadership in seeking a fair and just end to this conflict. I also call on Congress to commit to strong support of our ally during this critical juncture in Colombian history." ###
08.23.2016	Washington, D.C.- The large-scale display of Confederate flags in national veterans cemeteries will no longer be allowed, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has announced in a letter to Congress. The policy change came at the urging of Reps. Jared Huffman (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and 82 other members of Congress. Under this new policy, Confederate flags will never be allowed to be displayed from any flagpole in a VA national cemetery. This new change to National Cemetery Administration policy will be implemented consistent with an amendment to the VA funding bill for fiscal year 2017 offered earlier this year by Reps. Huffman, Gallego, and Ellison. “The Confederate flag is a symbol of racism and hatred, and it is a painful reminder of a terrible time in our history,” said Rep. Gallego. “I’m pleased to hear that the VA is taking this first step to ban this symbol of intolerance in VA cemeteries where we honor American heroes. The Confederate flag does not represent the values our veterans fought to defend, and we shouldn’t permit it to be displayed at all in places where we pay tribute to their sacrifices.” “This month we have seen the Confederate battle flag sold and displayed at Donald Trump rallies and proudly unfurled at a so-called ‘White Lives Matter’ protest. While racist individuals and groups continue to embrace the Confederate battle flag, it has never been more clear that this anachronistic symbol of hatred, slavery, and insurrection should not be promoted or gratuitously displayed on federal property,” said Rep. Huffman. “That’s why I am so grateful that the Department of Veterans Affairs responded to our letter and to public concerns and decided to prohibit the large-scale display of Confederate flags on our national veterans cemeteries.” “For decades, the Confederate battle flag has been the symbol of racist groups and individuals like the Ku Klux Klan and Dylann Roof, who murdered nine worshipers at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina,” said Rep. Ellison. “But the Confederate battle flag is more than a symbol of racism – it is also a symbol of treason. We must not forget or dishonor the brave men and women who died during the Civil War fighting for liberty and freedom. The flag of their enemies should not fly over their graves. The announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs ending large-scale displays of the Confederate battle flag will ensure that their sacrifices continue to be honored.” Despite the House’s overwhelming approval of the Huffman-Gallego-Ellison amendment during floor consideration of the VA appropriations bill, a final version of the legislation omitted the prohibition on Confederate flag displays and was approved by party-line vote. The policy change does not apply to individual gravesites. ###
08.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today marks the 4 year anniversary of the implementation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Over the past four years, the DACA program has allowed thousands of young immigrants who were raised in the United States to come out of the shadows and become active members of our communities and active contributors to our economy. “While Republicans repeatedly refused to take steps to fix our broken immigration system, President Obama took action to create commonsense policies designed to allow hardworking immigrant families to remain together. “The positive impact of the DACA program has been well-documented, and President Obama’s plan to expand DACA and implement a similar program for the parents of U.S. citizen children (DAPA) would have opened up those benefits to more people in our communities. “I remain committed to fighting for that program, as well as permanent solutions to fix our broken immigration system. I call on my Republican colleagues in Congress to abandon the divisive, hateful rhetoric espoused by some in their party, and instead work with Democrats to finally pass comprehensive immigration reform.” ##
08.02.2016	Washington, DC – On Friday, President Obama signed a bill to rename the United States Post Office located at 522 North Central Ave in Phoenix as the “Ed Pastor Post Office.” The proposal (HR 4010) was introduced by Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), and was strongly supported by the entire Arizona Congressional delegation. Congressman Pastor represented the people of Arizona for twelve terms, from 1991 until his retirement in 2015. He was the first Hispanic American elected to Congress from the State of Arizona. A video of Rep. Gallego’s floor speech in support of the proposal can be found here. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “Throughout his life, Congressman Pastor has demonstrated a remarkable commitment to public service, and I am extremely grateful that we are able to recognize him in this way. “Congressman Pastor has earned a reputation as a tireless advocate for the people of Arizona. I am committed to following in his footsteps and continuing his fight to preserve our environment, to protect the civil rights of every American, and to invest in our nation’s transportation infrastructure.” ###
07.27.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced that it approved Arizona’s plan to re-open enrollment for KidsCare, the state’s Children’s Health Insurance Program, after the program had been frozen for several years. The state has estimated that 30,000 to 40,000 children will be eligible for coverage once the freeze ends on July 26. Earlier this year, the Arizona Democratic Congressional Delegation sent a letter urging federal authorities to provide clarity and reassurances that full federal funding would be made available after KidsCare was enacted. The letter was signed by Reps. Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09). Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “The reinstatement of KidsCare is a meaningful step forward that will ensure that the children of working families in Arizona – just like kids in every other state – are guaranteed access to quality health care. The fight to re-open enrollment was a hard-fought battle, and I’m glad that CMS has approved the plan. A parent’s income should never restrict a child’s access to lifesaving health care, and I’m glad the children in our state will finally get the care they need to grow up healthy and happy.” “I’m thrilled to see Arizona’s KidsCare reinstated,” Rep. Raúl Grijalva said. “When state politicians froze the program in 2010, more than 45,000 children gradually lost coverage; our state became 49th in the nation for its rate of uninsured children; and the rate of uninsurance among the former KidsCare income eligibility range rose to a striking 16.5 percent. So many of us were appalled at the harm this decision was causing the most vulnerable among us, and we fought hard over the past six years to make health coverage for our children a reality. Thanks to those efforts, an estimated 30,000-40,000 uninsured children living in our state have a chance at healthier lives and brighter futures, and our state has the opportunity to take back a misstep that never should have lasted as long as it did. Both are good reasons for Arizonans to be celebrating today.” “Reopening KidsCare is the right thing to do for Arizona families and children,” said Rep. Kyrsten Sinema. “That’s why I worked with my colleagues, with the state and with CMS to make this a reality. Hardworking Arizonans just want to keep their children healthy and provide better futures for their families, and reopening KidsCare helps families take care of their kids.” Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick said, “I’m thrilled the enrollment freeze is ending, which will allow thousands of kids across Arizona to become eligible for KidsCare. This is an urgently needed change, because Arizona ranks 49th in the nation for its rate of uninsured children. That ranking is unacceptable because it’s more than just a number – it’s a reminder that our state is failing its children. We must do better, so this announcement is welcome news.” ###
07.18.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Education announced that Friendly House will receive grant funding through the Talent Search program, which provides assistance to help individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds who have the potential to succeed in higher education. Friendly House will receive more than $260,000 per year for five years, for an estimated total of $1.3 million to fund the Friendly House/TRiO Talent Search college access program. That program provides academic, career, and financial counseling to help students finish high school and pursue post-secondary education. TRiO also provides guidance with financial aid and the college admission applications process. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “For many years, Friendly House has helped provide disadvantaged students with the tools they need to pursue further education. At a time when the cost of higher education is soaring, this grant will allow Friendly House to continue the important work they are doing in our community to expand access to education and training opportunities. “I want to congratulate Friendly House on receiving this significant award. Higher education should be within reach of all Americans, and Friendly House is helping Arizona’s students to achieve that goal.” ##
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, in the latest display of Republican dysfunction in the House, a vote on Rep. Ruben Gallego’s amendment to end taxpayer subsidization of ranchers, like Cliven Bundy, who engage in illegal grazing was defeated after the House GOP leadership held open the roll call and convinced Members to change their votes. This follows an earlier incident in which Speaker Ryan similarly held open a vote on LGBT protections for government contractors and 7 House Republicans switched their votes from “Aye” to “No.” Rep. Ruben Gallego’s amendment would have affirmed that grazing permits and leases should not be issued to individuals with unpaid grazing fees in contravention of BLM regulations. The amendment was intended to highlight the burden on American taxpayers of some ranchers including Cliven Bundy, who for over 20 years has refused to pay more than $1 million in grazing fees owed to the federal government for illegally grazing his cattle on public lands. While continuing to violate the law, he put the lives of local and federal officials at stake during a dangerous standoff, for which he was indicted by a grand jury on charges, including threatening and assaulting federal law enforcement officers. A video of Rep. Gallego’s remarks upon introduction of the amendment can be found here. In his statement, Congressman Gallego noted the, “…double standard in Republican support for ranchers who refuse to pay their fair share and Republican criticism of Americans who refuse to accept injustice in their communities.” Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “After a week of praise for law enforcement and after years of talk about restoring “regular order” to the House of Representatives, Speaker Ryan and the Republican leadership showed their true colors this afternoon. “My Republican colleagues decided to stand up for Cliven Bundy instead of for the American taxpayers he has been ripping off for decades or for the federal law enforcement officers whose lives he has repeatedly threatened. “I’m also frustrated that once again a vote was held open as the GOP leadership furiously twisted arms on the House floor. The American people are watching and they don’t like what they see.” ##
07.14.2016	Phoenix, AZ – Today, the City of Phoenix announced that Jeri Williams will become the new Phoenix Police Chief, effective October 2016. Jeri Williams spent 22 years with the Phoenix Police Department prior to becoming Police Chief of Oxnard, California where she has focused on community-based policing. In her current position, she oversaw the implementation of police body cameras and training on use of force and technology topics for more than 300 California law enforcement agencies. Williams will become the City of Phoenix’s first female police chief, and second African-American police chief. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I want to congratulate Jeri Williams on her new position as Police Chief and welcome her back to Phoenix. I am confident that Ms. Williams’ vast experience and commitment to good police work with a community-based focus will be an asset to our city. Under her leadership, I believe we will make significant strides towards building greater trust between the police and our communities.” ###
07.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) introduced new legislation that would ensure that powerful, military-style weapons don’t end up in the hands of children. The Help End Assault Rifle Tragedies (HEART) Act will prohibit children under the age of 16 from possessing or firing machine guns and assault weapons, including at gun shows and shooting ranges. Sen. Markey and Congressman Gallego were joined by the four children of Charles Vacca, a firearms instructor who was killed in Arizona in 2014 by a nine-year-old who lost control of an Uzi submachine gun. A similarly tragic incident occurred in 2008 in Westboro, Massachusetts when an eight-year-old child accidentally killed himself while firing an Uzi at a gun show. Reps. Mike Honda (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), and Katherine Clark (D-MA) are original co-sponsors of the House bill. Sen. Edward J. Markey said, “The small hands of children and big power of machine guns are a deadly combination.The HEART Act is simple and straightforward: It prohibits the transfer of a machine gun or semiautomatic weapon to anyone under the age of 16. Not at a gun range, not at a gun show, not while hunting, not anywhere, anytime. Assault weapons are weapons of war and should not be allowed in the hands of children. I thank Rep. Gallego for his partnership on the HEART Act and look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this important bill.” Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “At a time when our country has never been more divided on the issue of guns – and at a time when our society has never owned more firearms – I believe that there is room for bipartisan compromise in working to ensure that Americans practice responsible gun ownership at all times. Incidents across the country have proven that kids and powerful firearms are a dangerous and tragic mix. This bill is a common sense step to prevent more families like the Vacca family from having to mourn the loss of loved ones in preventable accidents involving powerful weapons.” Rep. Mike Honda said, "That a child should not have easy access to machine guns should really be beyond debate. The HEART Act represents the type of common sense legislation the vast majority of the country wants: a real effort to reduce accidental gun deaths while maintaining a reasonable right to own guns for hunting or self defense. It’s time to take these powerful weapons of war out of the hands of children where they too often lead to family tragedy." The children of Charlie Vacca said, “We are grateful to Senator Markey and Representative Gallego for giving wings to our We Have a Voice movement through the HEART Act. We’re now calling upon kids across the nation and their parents support this brave bill by signing our petition. Kids and assault weapons don’t mix.” ###
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Last night, the House approved an amendment to the financial services appropriations bill introduced by Rep. Ruben Gallego that will protect the long-standing veteran preference in federal hiring. Rep. Gallego’s amendment received the support of the vast majority of the House, with a 409 to 14 vote. A provision in the 1,700 page Senate defense authorization would have undermined this policy by preventing veterans from benefitting from the preference system if they are already employed by the federal government. A video of Rep. Gallego’s floor speech can be found here. Rep. Gallego delivered the following remarks after introducing his amendment: Mr. Chairman, I want to begin by thanking my colleagues Congresswoman Kirkpatrick, Congressman Takano and Congressman Aguilar for joining me in offering this amendment. We strongly believe veterans who served our nation in uniform deserve the chance to serve our nation in the federal government. Unfortunately, a provision slipped unseen into the 1,700 page Senate defense authorization would severely undermine these policies across the federal government. Specifically, it would prevent veterans from benefiting from the preference system if they are already employed by the federal government. While this change might seem innocuous, it could have serious negative implications for the men and women who served our nation in uniform. Under the Senate proposal, if a particular federal job isn’t a good fit, or if a veteran wants to move up the ladder at a different agency, he or she will be deprived of this benefit. Mr. Chairman, this misguided provision was never the subject of a public hearing. It was never the subject of a public debate. It was never the subject of a roll call vote in committee or on the Senate floor. I’m willing to bet the vast majority of our colleagues in the Senate had no idea this language was even in the bill. America’s veterans deserve better. We deserve the chance to proudly and publically make our case for veterans preference – a system which has done so much to help courageous Americans returning from war to find good jobs so that they can provide for their families. That’s why I’m offering this amendment tonight. I want to give the Members of this body the chance to go on record in support of our nation’s veterans. Mr. Chairman, this issue is deeply personal for me. When I got back from Iraq, I saw friends and fellow Marines struggle to find employment and to get on with their lives. I personally witnessed the physical and emotional toll that joblessness can take on veterans struggling to readjust to civilian life. Simply put, the Senate language is a step in the wrong direction. After years of painful progress in combating economic distress and homelessness among our veterans, now is not the time to dilute a system which has proven highly successful in promoting veteran employment. The American people recognize that we owe an immense debt of gratitude to the brave men and women who fought for our freedom. Many of them left their civilian lives behind for months—or even years—to risk their lives in defense of our nation. The veterans preference system helps create a fair playing field for veterans by compensating them for the time they spent fighting overseas instead of working in government or the private sector. Instead of getting masters degrees, veterans were going door-to-door looking for insurgents. While other civilians built their resumes in civilian jobs, our men and women in uniform put in time away from family, in dangerous situations, with little monetary compensation. Veterans are not asking for a hand out. We have earned this preference through the blood, sweat and tears we have shed for our country. Mr. Speaker, this provision sends the wrong message to our troops. It establishes the wrong policy for our government. And it sets the wrong precedent for our future. On behalf of America’s veterans, I urge every Member to support this amendment. ###
06.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego joined local Arizona advocates to call on Congress to take action to prevent gun violence. The call took place on the recently-announced National Day of Action, when advocates and Members of Congress stood up together in communities across the country to ask their elected officials to pass legislation to save lives. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “I’m tired of seeing my Republican colleagues in Congress hold moments of silence for victims of gun violence, but then refuse to take action and make simple changes that could save lives and prevent the next tragedy. When Congress returns to Washington, D.C. on July 5, I hope my colleagues will finally step up and listen to the majority of American people who agree that we should take steps to reduce violence in our communities. America expects actions, not excuses. We need to act to save lives, honor the victims of gun violence, and keep our fellow Americans safe.” Jennifer Longdon, President of Arizonans for Gun Safety, said, “The sit-in was not a publicity stunt, it was a moral imperative. As a result of gun violence, I have been sitting for 12 years. It’s time to move past the stalling tactics of the gun lobby and their strangle hold on the will of the American people. It’s time for action and I call upon our elected leaders to reflect the overwhelming majority of Americans who believe in sensible reforms.” Geraldine Hills, Founder of Arizonans for Gun Safety, said, “I’m a lifelong Republican, but I will no longer support any candidate who opposes gun reforms. I know there are bipartisan, middle-ground, common sense things we can do.” Mari Bailey, Chapter President of the Greater Phoenix Million Mom March (part of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence) said, “For every person killed by a gun in America, two others are wounded. We make it too easy for dangerous people to get guns. These politicians who are buckling to the corporate gun lobby snuck out of the People’s House at 3 in the morning to avoid a vote on live-saving bills. We’re going to hold them accountable. Enough is enough.” Former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, Co-Founder of the gun violence prevention organization Americans for Responsible Solutions also sent a message to Congressman Gallego and the community leaders on the call: “Just one week after the historic sit-in on the House floor, leaders in Congress held yet another historic event to urge our elected officials in the U.S. House of Representatives to hold a vote on bipartisan legislation that protects the rights of law-abiding Americans, keeps guns out of the wrong hands, and saves lives. I want to thank Congressman Gallego for helping lead the fight against our nation’s gun violence crisis. Speaking is difficult for me. But I haven’t been silenced. And neither should the American people. Their Representatives must vote to make our communities safer.” ###
06.28.2016	Washington, DC – The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced today that the City of Phoenix has been awarded a $1.5 million grant by the department’s Choice Neighborhoods Initiative to spark economic development in the Edison-Eastlake community. The funding will help the city to redevelop 577 units of obsolete public housing in the Edison-Eastlake community in order to revitalize the neighborhood and encourage private investment. This project will also help leverage existing investments the city is making in the area, including enhanced bus service and a feasibility study for a light rail stop in the neighborhood. Rep. Ruben Gallego sent a letter in January to HUD Secretary Julián Castro in support of the City of Phoenix’s grant application. Phoenix was one of 10 cities awarded a total of $8 million to help stimulate affordable housing and economic development through HUD’s Choice Neighborhoods Initiative. The initiative is a part of the Obama Administration’s effort to build “Ladders of Opportunity” to the middle class. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “The Edison-Eastlake Choice Neighborhoods Community project has enormous potential to transform the area in order to make this neighborhood a better place to live and work. It will help the city to increase affordable housing options for Phoenix residents, and help to link residents to nearby schools, employment centers, and healthcare facilities. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix on receiving this significant award, which will help it to make great strides toward revitalizing the Edison-Eastlake neighborhood.” ###
06.27.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego praised the Supreme Court’s decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which struck down Texas House Bill 2 (H.B. 2), a state law that placed burdensome restrictions on abortion providers that would undermine a woman’s constitutionally protected right to make her own health decisions. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Today’s Supreme Court decision reaffirms that women deserve respect and dignity when making decisions about their health – not needless and unconstitutional barriers. This ruling should be a message to Republicans across the country that their attacks on women’s rights and reproductive freedom will not stand. “Though today’s victory is an important step to protect women’s constitutional rights, there are still many challenges that remain. For many low-income women and families, clinic closures and coverage bans have the same effect as a full-out ban on abortion care. We must keep working to ensure that every woman can access safe and affordable care if and when she needs it, regardless of where she lives or how much she earns.” ##
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Today the Supreme Court affirmed the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in U.S. v. Texas with a 4-4 split decision. As a result, the injunction on President Obama’s immigration executive actions – the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program – will stand. The decision does not affect those who have benefitted from the original 2012 DACA program. Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “While today’s disappointing decision doesn’t set Supreme Court precedent, it is an unfortunate setback for the immigrant families who now must continue to live in fear of separation. “The DAPA and expanded DACA programs are a legal, commonsense exercise of the President’s longstanding authority to determine how to best use our resources and determine priorities when it comes to our immigration laws. “This fight is not over. I will continue to work with the tireless advocates who are fighting to protect immigrant families and to make sure that every member of our community can live in dignity. “I am confident that this case will again be brought to the Supreme Court, and next time will be heard by a full panel of justices who will see through the political motives of this case and deliver a clear decision.” “In the meantime, it’s time for my Republican colleagues in Congress to stop playing games and start doing their jobs. Let’s get to work and reform our broken immigration system.” ##
06.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill (HR 4010 ) to rename the United States Post Office located at 522 North Central Ave in Phoenix as the “Ed Pastor Post Office.” The proposal was introduced by Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), and was strongly supported by the entire Arizona Congressional delegation. Congressman Pastor represented the people of Arizona for twelve terms, from 1991 until his retirement in 2015. He was the first Hispanic American elected to Congress from the State of Arizona. HR 4010 will now proceed to the U.S. Senate for consideration. A video of Rep. Gallego’s floor speech in support of the proposal can be found here. Rep. Gallego’s remarks, as prepared: “Mr. Speaker, “I rise in support of a bill that – in a small but significant way – honors the legacy of a Latino trailblazer and a great Arizonan, Congressman Ed Pastor. “Mr. Speaker, Congressman Pastor dedicated his life to fighting for working families. “Renaming a post office in the district he represented with distinction for 12 terms is the very least that we can do to recognize his more than three decades of outstanding public service. “I want to thank my colleagues in the Arizona delegation for their enthusiastic support. “I’m also grateful to Chairman Chaffetz and Ranking Member Cummings for enabling this bill to come to the floor today. “Mr. Speaker, Congressman Ed Pastor’s life embodies the American Dream. And throughout his time in Congress, Mr. Pastor fought to make that Dream accessible to everyone, including the most vulnerable in our society. “As Leader Pelosi once wrote, ‘Ed Pastor never forgot his roots, and always worked to build a brighter future for the children of our nation.’ “The son of a miner, Mr. Pastor was the first member of his family to go to college and received his Bachelor’s degree from Arizona State University in 1966. “After graduation, he taught at North High School in Phoenix before returning to ASU in 1971 to earn his law degree. “Mr. Pastor subsequently worked on the staff of Arizona’s first Latino governor, Raul Castro – a job that cemented his lifelong commitment to public service. “Mr. Pastor later served three terms on the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors before being elected to the 102nd Congress in a special election in 1991. “Congressman Pastor spent twenty-four years in this body, earning a reputation as a tireless advocate for the people of Arizona. “I’m proud to say that Mr. Pastor is the first Latino elected to Congress from our great state. “He was also one of the founding members of the Progressive Caucus and chaired the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the 104th Congress. “In addition, he served on the House Appropriations Committee and as Chief Deputy Whip of the Democratic Caucus. “Throughout his career, Congressman Pastor was a passionate advocate for fixing our broken immigrating system, investing in our nation’s transportation infrastructure, and protecting the civil rights of every American. “Perhaps even more importantly, as President Obama noted, Congressman Pastor ‘…served as a mentor and role model to young Latinos and Latinas throughout Arizona and our country.’ “He was supported in this groundbreaking work by his loving wife, Verma. “Congressman Pastor retired in 2014 and remains a beloved and respected figure in the City of Phoenix. “I’m incredibly proud to follow in his footsteps as the 7th district’s representative here in Washington. “The Pastor Post Office will join Ed and Verma Pastor Elementary School and the Pastor School of Politics and Public Service at ASU as monuments to his outstanding service to our nation. “Yet, Congressman Pastor’s legacy lives on not just in these buildings, but in the transportation projects he championed, the legislation he authored, the working families he helped and the young people he inspired. “Mr. Speaker, I respectfully request the support of every Member in recognizing a legendary Arizonan, Congressman Ed Pastor.” ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Amendments to the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Defense funding bill that would have prevented beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program from serving in the armed forces were struck down on the House floor today. The amendments, introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) and Steve King (R-Iowa), would have prevented the Defense Secretary from enlisting young immigrants who have been granted work permits and want to serve in our nation’s armed forces by stripping funding from the Department’s Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program. This program helps to recruit individuals with in-demand skills, including special language skills needed in the fight against ISIS. Rep. Ruben Gallego, a Marine Corps veteran who fought in Iraq and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has led the fight to allow DACA recipients to serve in uniform. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I am pleased that my colleagues rejected Congressman King and Congressman Gosar’s irresponsible attempts to revoke the Secretary of Defense’s ability to enlist DACA recipients who want to fight for our country. The House today sent a clear message that partisan posturing shouldn’t stand in the way of national security. “Our military needs the ability to recruit the best and the brightest to serve in uniform. DREAMers- who are Americans in every respect except on paper – should have the chance to protect the country they love and call home. “I am glad to see that some Republicans are rejecting the tired, anti-immigrant policies promoted by the likes of Donald Trump. Now it’s time for those Republicans to take a stand against the far-right wing of their party and start working with Democrats to pass comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
06.15.2016	Washington, DC – On the 4 year anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA), House GOP leaders will push for two GOP-authored anti-immigrant amendments to the defense spending bill. The amendments, introduced by Reps. Steve King (R-Iowa) and Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) would prevent the Defense Secretary from enlisting young immigrants who have been granted work permits and want to serve in our nation’s armed forces. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “The Trump-Ryan GOP will find any way it can to attack immigrants and divide us as Americans. Now they want to put our national security at risk by revoking the Secretary of Defense’s ability to enlist DACA recipients who want to fight for our country – even if he determines it is in the best interest of our nation and our military. “We shouldn’t let anti-immigrant, partisan posturing stand in the way of our military recruitment goals. Our armed forces need the best and brightest soldiers, marines and airmen they can get, and these young people want nothing more than to serve the country they call home. “These political games have serious national defense implications, and this is unacceptable. The House should reject the Gosar and King amendments to the defense spending bill.” ###
06.13.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to this weekend’s mass shooting in Orlando, Florida. 49 people were killed and 53 more were wounded at an LGBT nightclub. The attack is the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. “I am shocked and horrified by this hate-filled and tragic shooting in Orlando. I stand in solidarity with the LGBT community during this difficult time. “It is especially egregious that these men and women were attacked at a place they considered a safe haven, free of the hate and judgment some of them experience on a daily basis. There is no place for hate in America. “My heart is with those who lost loved ones in this senseless act of violence. But I know that ‘thoughts and prayers’ are never enough and can’t bring back those that were lost. It is time for Congress to take serious action to address the epidemic of gun violence that is plaguing our nation.” ###
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego, along with Rep. Tammy Duckworth, Rep. Patrick Murphy and Rep. John Lewis, sent a letter signed by 70 House Democrats urging the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to provide additional resources and authorities to address the frustrating wait times at TSA security checkpoints that have frustrated passengers at airports across the nation. Congressman Gallego led the effort in response to unacceptably long lines at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport and a recent baggage screening stoppage that resulted in more than 3,000 bags missing their flights. The letter echoes the calls of key stakeholders—including major airports, industry groups and organized labor—for increased TSA staffing levels to cope with the growing number of commercial air travelers in the United States. It also urges the Subcommittee to exclude from the legislation any statutory cap on the size of the TSA workforce. In recent years, appropriations bills funding the Department of Homeland Security have arbitrarily limited the number of screeners that TSA may employ—a provision that appears to lack any credible rationale and, in the future, could constrain TSA’s ability to reduce wait times at security checkpoints. “Congress has a critical role to play in ensuring that the long lines and lost bags at Sky Harbor and other major airports don’t continue,” said Congressman Gallego. “With more Americans traveling today than ever before, we have a responsibility to ensure that TSA has a workforce that can cope with these rising passenger volumes. Given the importance of the travel industry to our city and our state, I call on the House Republican leadership to bring forward a homeland security spending bill that will fully address the TSA delays that have frustrated so many Arizonans in recent months.” The text of the letter is below: June 8, 2016 Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: We write on behalf of American travelers who are frustrated and angry because of excessive delays at security screening checkpoints in airports throughout the country. We are concerned at the recent high-profile instances of multiple hour wait times at major airports. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) must have the authority and resources to effectively protect the nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. While we support DHS’ immediate corrective actions to decrease wait times, these steps are only temporary solutions. In recent years, the size of the TSA workforce has declined by approximately 12 percent, while the number of domestic air travelers has increased by a similar percentage. A range of key stakeholders—including major airports, industry groups and organized labor—have called for increased TSA staffing levels. Accordingly, as the Subcommittee develops the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act, we strongly urge you to ensure that TSA can effectively and efficiently implement a risk-based aviation security screening process that optimizes deployment of agency resources to match seasonal fluctuations in travel volume. Specifically, we believe the FY 17 DHS appropriations bill should: Eliminate arbitrary restrictions that cap the size of TSA’s Transportation Security Officer (TSO) workforce without regard to the continually evolving and growing range of terrorist threats targeting the traveling public or the level of traveler demand; Ensure TSA possesses necessary flexibility to deploy TSO personnel in an agile and responsive manner that matches a continually changing threat environment and fluctuating traveler volumes based on various factors; Require TSA to analyze and enhance its TSO staffing allocation model to be more flexible and responsive to variations in travel volume; Provide TSA with necessary resources to recruit, retain and continually train a talented TSO workforce that is of sufficient quantity and quality to implement the improved staffing allocation model; and Ensure TSA is provided robust funding to deploy advanced personnel and proven detection technology, particularly K-9 teams, in an agile manner to airports experiencing elevated travel volumes and higher security threat assessments. Recognizing that the DHS appropriations bill must address a range of pressing homeland security priorities, we strongly encourage the Subcommittee provide funding for TSA operations at a level commensurate with the agency’s growing workload in preventing terrorist plots targeting our aviation system. In addition, we strongly believe aviation security must never be compromised by irrational or unjustified congressional caps on the number of transportation security officers the agency may employ to best protect American travelers. Thank you for your attention to these requests. TSA’s counterterror mission is, and must always remain, the agency’s highest priority. Fortunately, the goals of enhanced security and more efficient processing are not mutually exclusive objectives. We look forward to working with you to support the important work that tens of thousands of Transportation Security Officers do every day to keep the American people safe. Sincerely, 70 Members of Congress ###
06.07.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the statement below following the death of Helen Chavez, widow of civil rights pioneer Cesar Chavez: “I join the labor movement and the entire Latino community in mourning the death of Helen Chavez,” said Rep. Gallego. “It would be hard to understate the critical role that Helen played in the fight to secure basic rights and protections for migrant farm workers in America. By all accounts, she was a quiet woman, but when she did speak publically, her words were powerful and wise. Helen dedicated her life to the notion that every worker in our country deserves to be treated with fairness and dignity and I can think of no better tribute to her than to continue the fight for workers rights with Helen’s tireless strength and dedication. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends.” ###
06.03.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement on President Barack Obama's call to expand Social Security benefits: “President Obama is right to call on Congress to renew our commitment to seniors and Americans with disabilities by expanding Social Security benefits. At a time when our society is becoming increasingly unequal and millions of older Americans are still struggling to make ends meet, we have a moral obligation to strengthen our social safety net for the 21st century. "The American people recognize that social security benefits are earned- the just reward for a lifetime of hard work. They reject a conservative ideology that says the only changes that Congress should consider are cuts and strongly support policies like expanding Social Security that will help rebuild the American middle class. Along with my Democratic colleagues, I remain committed to fighting for more generous social security benefits so that all seniors can look forward to a secure retirement after decades of providing for others."
05.20.2016	Washington, DC – An amendment to the fiscal 2017 National Defense Authorization Act that would have prevented beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program from serving in the armed forces was struck down in the House Rules Committee. The amendment, introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), would have altered bipartisan compromise language that affirms the Secretary of Defenses broad discretionary power to enable immigrants to enlist in the military by specifically excluding DACA beneficiaries, known as DREAMers. That compromise language, introduced by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), was approved by voice vote during the HASC markup of the bill in response to an amendment introduced by Rep. Gallego. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I am pleased that Congressman Gosar’s attempt to irresponsibly revise compromise language that could enable DREAMers to serve was rejected by cooler heads in the House GOP Leadership. “This shouldn’t be a controversial issue. The Secretary of Defense has the statutory authority to allow any immigrant to enlist if it’s in our national interest – including DACA recipients who want to fight for our country. It’s about defense and what is in the best interest of our nation and our military. “I’m glad to see that some Republicans are rejecting the tired, anti-immigrant policies promoted by the likes of Congressman Gosar, Congressman Steve King, and Donald Trump. Now it’s time for those Republicans to take a stand against the far-right wing of their party and start working with Democrats to pass comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment to the 2017 VA funding bill that will prohibit federal taxpayer funds from being used to fly the Confederate battle flag at cemeteries operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The amendment was introduced by Reps. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) and Keith Ellison (D-Minn.). Rep. Huffman introduced a similar amendment last year to the Interior Department spending bill. A stand-alone bill on the issue was introduced last year by Rep. Gallego. Rep. Jared Huffman said, “While I appreciate that today's vote represents progress, it is shameful that two thirds of the House Republican Caucus voted against this commonsense measure. Why would anyone in Congress – let alone a majority of the governing party – still condone displays of this hateful symbol on our sacred national cemeteries. Symbols like the Confederate battle flag have meaning. They are not just neutral historical symbols of pride, they represent slavery, war, lynchings, and tragedy. To continue to allow national policy condoning the display of the Confederate battle flag on federal property would be wrong and disrespectful to our past. Even General Robert E. Lee recognized that symbols of the Confederacy are symbols of treason—which is why he asked that they not appear in his funeral. I am grateful that a majority of the House agreed today to be at least as forward-looking as Robert E. Lee was in 1869. Let’s continue to move in the direction of reconciliation, unity, and justice.” Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “Let’s stop pretending the Confederate flag isn’t a symbol of racism. The Confederate flag represents hate and intolerance and is a painful reminder of a terrible time in our history. VA cemeteries should be a place where we honor American war heroes – not a place where we preserve the symbols of slavery and Jim Crow. The Confederate flag does not represent the values our veterans fought to defend, and we shouldn’t permit it to be displayed in a place where we pay tribute to their sacrifices.” Rep. Keith Ellison said, “For decades, the Confederate battle flag has been the symbol of racist groups and individuals like the Ku Klux Klan and Dylann Roof, who murdered 9 worshipers at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. But the Confederate battle flag is also a symbol of treason. We cannot forget the 2,500 Minnesotans who died during the Civil War fighting for liberty and freedom, whose opponents carried the very flag which some Republicans want flown today. These brave Americans gave their lives opposing everything the Confederate battle flag represented- the desire to hold human beings as property across our country and keep them in bondage until the end of time. All Minnesotans owe these brave Americans a solemn debt. We should ensure that the flag that their enemies carried so proudly does not fly above their graves.” ###
05.17.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Ruben Gallego introduced an amendment to the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would require each branch of the armed forces to monitor the prescribing practices of medications to treat symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among service members. An estimated one in five veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan are diagnosed with PTSD. The Department of Defense (DOD) and the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) have collaborated to develop clinical practice guidelines for PTSD, which include recommendations for the treatment of symptoms among service members and veterans with these conditions. Currently, the VHA monitors the prescribing of medications that are included in these guidelines, but the DOD and the Army do not. A GAO report released earlier this year asserts that without such monitoring, the Army “may be unable to identify and address practices that are inconsistent with the [PTSD] guideline.” Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “As a veteran, I know how critical it is to support efforts to both de-stigmatize and reduce barriers to mental health care for service members and veterans, including addressing PTSD. “By consistently monitoring the prescribing practices of medications to treat symptoms of PTSD among service members, we can make sure our men and women in uniform receive the proper treatment they need and deserve.” ##
05.11.2016	Rep. Ruben Gallego Responds to Rep. Gosar’s Attempt to Block DREAMers from Serving our Nation in Uniform Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), announced that he had filed an amendment to the fiscal 2017 National Defense Authorization Act to prevent undocumented young people brought to the United States as children – known as DREAMers – from serving our country in uniform. His misguided amendment would alter bipartisan compromise language affirming the Secretary of Defense’s broad discretionary power to enable immigrants to enlist in the military by specifically excluding beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The language in question was offered as a compromise amendment by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and was approved by voice vote in response to an amendment introduced by Rep. Gallego. Critically, the Gosar amendment would change current DOD policy by preventing DACA recipients with in-demand skills, including special language skills needed in the fight against ISIS, from enlisting through the Department’s Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “I am disappointed that Congressman Gosar would attempt to irresponsibly revise compromise language introduced by the Republican committee chairman that could enable DREAMers to serve. “This shouldn’t be a controversial issue. The Secretary of Defense has the statutory authority to allow any immigrant to enlist if it’s in our national interest – including DACA recipients who want to fight for our country. “This amendment is about defense and what is in the best interest of our nation and our military. I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters is the character and commitment of the people you serve with, not their immigration status. “I look forward to a vigorous and open debate on this important issue on the House floor next week.” ##
05.10.2016	Phoenix, AZ – Rep. Ruben Gallego announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Arizona’s 7th District at an awards ceremony held at The Parsons Center for Health and Wellness on Monday, May 9. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “I want to offer my congratulations to Carlos Medrano, winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Arizona’s 7th Congressional District. I was thoroughly impressed by the wide range of talent and creativity displayed by the students in our community. I want to thank all of the students who participated in this year’s contest and the parents and teachers who have helped support their creative and academic endeavors.” This year’s competition theme was “Local inspiration.” 46 students from 12 schools participated, and first, second, and third place winners were chosen by a panel of local judges from Arizona’s 7th District. First Place: Carlos Medrano, North High School – “Exodus” Second Place: Amanda Amador, Apollo High School – “Thunder Rolling In” Third Place: Yassir Hurts, Betty Fairfax High School – “The Mother’s Grove” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition since it began in 1982. The first place winner from each congressional district will have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol and will receive roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. to attend the Congressional Reception on Thursday, June 23. ###
05.06.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ruben Gallego hailed the passage of landmark legislation that will restore access to KidsCare, the Children’s Health Insurance Program in Arizona. Earlier this year, Rep. Gallego led a letter to CMS urging federal authorities to provide clarity and reassurances that full federal funding would be made available after KidsCare was enacted. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: “The reinstatement of KidsCare marks a momentous step forward for our state. I’m thrilled that the children of working families here in Arizona – just like kids in every other state – will finally be guaranteed access to quality health care. “I want to thank all of the advocates and community organizations, especially the Children’s Action Alliance, that have fought tirelessly to secure this long overdue victory. It’s because of their efforts that the state legislature finally affirmed the basic notion that a parent’s income should never restrict a child’s access to life-saving health care. “I will continue working with CMS and our state leaders to ensure the timely implementation of KidsCare and I look forward to the day very soon when all of the children in our state can count on getting the care they need to grow up happy and healthy.” ###
05.02.2016	Phoenix, AZ – Rep. Ruben Gallego is honored to announce five prestigious appointments to the United States Service Academies. This year’s appointees include two local high school students, two students who are currently enrolled in Arizona universities, and one student who is currently enrolled in the U.S. Naval Academy Prep School. “As a Marine Corps veteran, I take great pride in nominating some of Arizona’s brightest students to our nation’s service academies,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “These young men and women are a testament to the value of hard work and have excelled in academics, leadership and athletics. I am proud to see such motivated students offered the opportunity to attend these prestigious institutions and to serve our country in uniform.” Linnea Henshaw, a student at North High School in Phoenix, was appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy. Cosme Lopez, a student at Raymond S. Kellis High School in Glendale, was appointed to West Point Military Academy. David Skwait, who is currently attending Northern Arizona University, was appointed to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Zachery Seroka, who is currently attending Arizona State University, was appointed to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Charles Winston, who is currently attending the U.S. Naval Academy Prep School, was appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy. Each year, Rep. Gallego nominates a limited number of high-achieving students to four of our nation’s service academies – the Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine academies. Once nominations are made, each academy determines who will receive an appointment through a rigorous and competitive application process. Students from the 7th District who are interested in attending a United States Service Academy should contact Rep. Ruben Gallego’s district office at (602) 256-0551. ###
05.02.2016	Washington, DC – Esta semana, los ciudadanos Americanos en Puerto Rico una vez más se han quedado en el limbo después de que líderes republicanos en el Congreso se fueron a casa sin pasar un proyecto de ley para hacer frente a la crisis humanitarian en la isla. Hoy se espera que Puerto Rico no pueda hacer el mayor pago a sus acreedores hasta la fecha. El Rep. Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones: “Puerto Rico está en crisis y los republicanos se niegan a actuar. La isla está perdiendo empleos, cerrando escuelas y hospitales, y los jóvenes trabajadores están abandonando la isla en cantidades enormes. Los líderes republicanos no una sino dos veces cancelaron planes para tomar una legislación en el Comité de Recursos Naturales de la Cámara, y se fueron para el receso la semana pasada sin abordar la crisis en Puerto Rico, la amenaza Zika, o la crisis en Flint, Michigan. “Como miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales de la Cámara y como latino, estoy indignado por la incapacidad de la mayoría republicana para gobernar y responder a estas amenazas a la salud pública nacional e internacional y a nuestra estabilidad económica. “Paul Ryan rompió su promesa a sus colegas y al pueblo de Puerto Rico al no comportarse como líder de su partido, y en lugar permitir que los extremistas en su partido exigieron llenar la legislación de disposiciones controversiales dañinas para los trabajadores y para nuestro medio ambiente. Los republicanos están jugando a la ruleta rusa política con Puerto Rico, y usando la urgencia de la crisis para forzar legislación que solo va a empeorar la situación para la isla. Y para colmo, siguen pidiéndome a mí y a mis colegas demócratas que demos nuestro apoyo. “Esto es inaceptable. Hago eco de la llamada del gobernador Padilla para una acción imediata por el Congreso.” ###
05.02.2016	Washington, DC – This week, American citizens in Puerto Rico have once again been left in limbo after Republican leaders in Congress left for home without passing a bill to address the island’s humanitarian crisis. Today, Puerto Rico is expected to miss its largest payment to creditors to date. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Puerto Rico is in crisis, and Republicans are refusing to act as jobs are lost, schools and hospitals are closing, and young workers are leaving the island in historic record numbers. Republican leaders not once, but twice cancelled plans to take up legislation in the House Natural Resources Committee and broke for recess last week without addressing Puerto Rico, the Zika threat, or the crisis in Flint, Michigan. “As a member of the House Natural Resources Committee and a Latino, I am outraged by the majority’s inability to govern and respond to these threats to national and international public health and economic stability. “Speaker Ryan broke his promise to his colleagues and to the Puerto Rican people by failing to lead while extremists in his party demanded legislation filled with poison-pill provisions, including anti-environment and anti-worker language. Republicans are playing dangerous politics and using the urgency of time to eventually force a bill that will make things significantly worse for the Puerto Rican people – all while asking me and my Democratic colleagues for our support. “This is unacceptable. I echo Governor Padilla’s call for immediate relief and action by Congress.” ###
04.27.2016	Washington, DC – Tonight, in a victory for immigrant rights, the House Armed Services Committee voted to affirm the Secretary of Defense’s broad discretionary power to enable immigrants – including DREAMers – to enlist in the military. The vote came after Rep. Ruben Gallego introduced the “Enable DREAMers to Serve in Uniform” amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment would have required the Secretary of Defense to establish a process to permit the enlistment of beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. DACA-eligible individuals receive work permits, but are generally barred from serving in the Armed Forces. In a surprising twist, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry then offered an amendment in the nature of a substitute confirming that the Secretary of Defense has the authority to enlist whomever he would like if it would advance the national interest – including DREAMers and other immigrants. The amendment was approved by voice vote and confirms the Secretary’s legal ability to permit DREAMers to serve our nation in uniform. Rep. Gallego introduced a very similar amendment during last year’s NDAA markup, which was approved by a bipartisan majority of the House Armed Services Committee. However, Republicans later succeeded in stripping out this critical provision on the House floor. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “The passage of this amendment is a victory for DREAMers and other immigrants who wish to serve our country in uniform. I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters isn’t your immigration status, it’s whether you have the right skills and character. I’m glad that Republicans are finally realizing this. I call on Secretary Carter to use this legal authority and begin enlisting DREAMers in our military as soon as possible.” Rep. Gallego delivered the following prepared remarks when introducing his amendment: Mr. Chairman, Immigrants have been fighting in America’s Armed Forces since the founding of the Republic. Many of them didn’t come here legally. Yet, in countless cases, we still allowed them to enlist because for most of our history, your patriotism was more important than your papers. Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you about a great American named Joseph Medina. Joseph was born in Mexico 101 years ago. When he was four years old, his parents moved to Minnesota to work in the soybean fields. However, it wasn’t until he joined the Army that Joseph learned he was undocumented. In 2016, despite the grave threats our nation faces, DREAMers like Joseph who want to serve our nation in uniform are turned away from recruiting offices across the country. In contrast, back in 1944, all it took was for Joseph to drive up to Canada one afternoon, reenter the United States and return to his unit. Joseph went on to fight with distinction in the Pacific theatre under legendary General George MacArthur. Two years ago, at the grand age of 99, he came all the way here to Washington to plead with Congress to give today’s undocumented young people the same opportunity he had to fight for our country. Speaking on the National Mall, he talked about the love for America that motivated him to enlist – the sincere patriotism that he shares with millions of undocumented youth who grow up in our communities, pledge allegiance to our flag and want to give back to our county. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would enable DREAMers to do just that. It would require the Secretary of Defense to establish a process to permit the enlistment of beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program or DACA. DOD already has this authority pursuant to Section 504 of Title 10 and the Department is currently allowing a small number of undocumented young people who possess special language and technical skills to join our Armed Forces. Unfortunately, in a few moments, opponents of my amendment will argue that this is an immigration issue and that it shouldn’t be considered in the context of the annual defense bill. They will even claim that my amendment amounts to a “backdoor amnesty.” That’s nonsense, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that my amendment is consistent with past precedent. In 2006, When Congress last acted to revise the rules governing the enlistment of non-citizens, this change was made through the NDAA. Moreover, this amendment would have no effect on the immigration status of DACA-recipients or anyone else. In closing, when we vote on this amendment later this evening, please consider the long sweep of history and not just the anti-immigrant politics of the present. Our military was made stronger in the 1940’s because men like Joseph Medina were allowed to enlist. And our military will be made stronger in 2016—in this very room—if we vote to give another generation of immigrants the chance to serve. Mr. Chairman, the willingness to fight and die in uniform is the purest expression of love for our country. Please support my amendment and finally give DREAMers who love America the opportunity to enlist in America’s Armed Forces. Thank you. I yield back. ###
04.20.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Gallego (D-AZ) led a group of veteran members of Congress to introduce legislation that would help deported veterans to reunite with their families in the United States. The bill would also prevent the removal of service members and veterans in the future. Specifically, the bill urges the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to use his powers under current law to readmit veterans into the United States who have been deported and who have not committed a serious crime. The bill also limits the current grounds of deportability to prevent the removal of a service member or veteran who has served at least 6 months in the military and who has not committed a serious crime. Reps. Ted Lieu (D-CA), Charles Rangel (D-NY) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, ““I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters isn’t whether you have the right papers, it’s whether you have the right skills and the right character. Deportation is no way to thank the men and women who sacrificed so much to serve our country. Instead of separating these veterans from their families and the country they love and served, we should recognize the contributions they have made and can continue to make to the United States.” Rep. Ted Lieu said, “As an immigrant and a veteran who previously served on active duty, I believe there is perhaps no greater injustice in our immigration system than the deportation of veterans. Any immigrant, documented or otherwise, who puts their life on the line to serve the United States in uniform should be entitled to their VA benefits and a peaceful life in our great nation. It is incomprehensible that we treat some veterans more like criminals than heroes. The Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act would help us correct the system to treat all veterans with the respect they have earned.” | Contact: Jack D’Annibale (202-225-3976) Rep. Charles Rangel said, “As a veteran, I know that one’s skin color or immigration status is the last thing that matters on the battlefield. We cannot turn our backs against our immigrant service members who fought to defend our freedoms. Yet despite their contributions, we have stripped them of the honor of serving in our nation’s armed services and taken them away from their families. I am proud to join my colleagues to help unite loved ones and pay respect to those who sacrificed on our behalf.” | Contact: Hannah Kim (202-225-4365) Rep. José E. Serrano said, “Immigrants, regardless of status, come to our nation because they believe in the ideals, values, and opportunities that exist here. Some feel so strongly about their adopted nation that they choose to serve in our armed forces, and we should honor and respect that service. This bill addresses the inconceivable situation that some veterans find themselves in after their service – deported and forced to separate from their families. That our country deports those who have defended our flag and lived up to our nation’s most important ideals tells you all you need to know about how broken our immigration system currently is. Our nation needs comprehensive immigration reform, but this is a common sense first step that no one should object to.”| Contact: Paola Amador (202-225-4361) ###
04.19.2016	Today, Reps. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) released the following statement after leading 172 representatives in sending a letter to House Leadership urging that no divisive policy provisions be included in the 2017 appropriations bills: “Divisive partisan policy riders have no place in our appropriations bills,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “Last year’s two-year budget agreement should’ve settled the issue and allowed both parties to work together to craft the 2017 appropriations bills. However, with the budget process breaking down there is a danger that conservative Members may try to break down the appropriations process by including radical policy riders to these bills. These provisions could block gun violence research, gut financial regulations in Dodd-Frank, limit reproductive choice, harm Social Security and Medicare, or prevent the United States from joining international climate agreements. I’m proud to stand with Ruben Gallego and 172 of my colleagues in opposing any appropriations bills that contains such contentious provisions. Last November our efforts led to most of the contentious riders being left out of the year-end spending bill. We will continue to stand united against these Republican efforts.” “Last year, House Republicans tried to use the appropriations process to prevent the federal government from taking action to address the problems that matter to the American people,” said Rep. Gallego. “If, in the coming weeks, they once again insist on adding poison pill provisions to spending bills, the Republican Leadership will be leading us on the path to yet another unnecessary political impasse or even a damaging government shutdown. Democrats are united in calling on Speaker Ryan to end this pattern of reckless brinksmanship and pass clean appropriations bills to fully fund the federal government.” The letter was welcomed by a broad range of public interest groups—ranging from labor unions to environmentalists to consumer advocates to women’s health groups—that make up the Clean Budget Coalition, which is dedicated to fighting ideological riders in spending bills. Their reactions follow: The Clean Budget Coalition issued this statement: “The Clean Budget Coalition – an alliance of more than 100 groups opposed to inappropriate riders in federal spending bills – applauds the 172 members of the U.S. House of Representatives who are standing firm against the inclusion of controversial and unpopular policy riders in this year’s appropriations legislation. Most riders are little more than sweetheart deals for big corporations and special favors for ideological extremists that could not become law on their own merits. Unscrupulous lawmakers sneak them into must-pass spending bills to avoid a real debate. Despite a pledge to conduct the appropriations process through regular order, some lawmakers are already insisting on including these highly irregular and extraneous provisions. Whether we end up with 12 appropriations bills, a continuing resolution or an omnibus, special interest payback riders have no place in any legislation needed to fund our government.” League of Conservation Voters Deputy Legislative Director Alex Taurel said, “The American people deserve a budget that fully funds the environmental safeguards that protect our air, water, lands, and wildlife—not one that attacks those protections with anti-environmental policy riders. Ideological policy riders simply have no place in spending bills and their inclusion will only heighten the risk of an eventual government shutdown. If Republican leaders are serious about a return to “regular order,” they must abandon their inappropriate, unpopular, and harmful efforts to sneak anti-environmental and other poison-pill riders onto spending bills. We applaud Representatives Schakowsky and Gallego for leading this effort and look forward to working with them and their colleagues to continue the fight against anti-environmental policy riders.” Public Citizen’s Congress Watch Director Lisa Gilbert said, “Public Citizen applauds the 172 members standing tall to call for a budget that is free from ideological riders. Already we have begun to see poison pill riders as the first subcommittee appropriations bills move through committee. For example, the Agriculture Appropriations bill contains an improper and controversial policy rider that would prohibit the FDA from moving forward on a regulatory change that would improve the safety of prescription drug labeling to protect consumers from unsafe drugs. Riders like this have no place in bills intended to fund the government. As members of the Clean Budget Coalition, we urge leadership and all members to stand firm on keeping the FY17 budget clean.” The Wilderness Society’s Government Relations and Budget Specialist Cam Witten said, “Our nation's public lands have been chronically underfunded for many years. The annual appropriations process should be utilized to invest in clean air, clean water, outdoor recreation and the public health benefits provided by our parks, forests, and wildlands. Instead, the federal appropriations process has become hijacked by attempts to add unpopular anti-environmental provisions to it. These controversial 'riders' have no place in annual appropriations discussions, and the broad opposition to such harmful provisions that this letter demonstrates is noteworthy as we look to restore the federal funding process to what it is intended to be.” Americans for Financial Reform’s Executive Director Lisa Donner said, “Wall Street lobbyists and their friends in Congress keep on trying to roll back regulation and make it easier for big financial companies to take advantage of consumers, homeowners, investors, small business owners, and taxpayers. Since they could not get these measures passed in the open, they want to force them through by attaching them to ‘must pass’ government spending bills. They are using unacceptable means to try to reach a dangerous end." Peter Colavito, Director of Government Relations at the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), said, “Riders from the Republican leadership are a way they try to manipulate the rules in favor of the wealthy few and big corporations. Working families want Congress to do its job and send President Obama clean spending bills.” Harold P. Wimmer, National President and CEO of the American Lung Association, said, “The American Lung Association urges opposition to all policy riders. They are used by certain industries to undermine public health safeguards that clean up the air we breathe and protect our nation's youth from cigars and e-cigarettes.” American Association for Justice Director of Regulatory Affairs Sarah Rooney said, “Powerful corporations press Congress to use the budget process to sneak in unpopular policies at their behest. These policies, whether they weaken consumer protection, public safety, or citizens’ ability to hold wrongdoers accountable, would not pass into law if considered as individual legislation.” Text of the Letter: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House Democratic Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-232 The Capitol H-204 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Harold Rogers The Honorable Nita M. Lowey Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-305 The Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Rogers, and Ranking Member Lowey: We urge you to bring forward spending bills without divisive policy riders to fund the federal government in Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. At a time when our country is confronting a range of urgent challenges, it is critical that the House of Representatives works expeditiously to complete the appropriations process. We believe clean bills – free of controversial policy provisions – represent the best chance to advance appropriations legislation through “regular order” and avoid another harmful political impasse. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 provided a framework for the House to consider and pass individual appropriations bills for FY 2017. We are deeply concerned, however, that adding controversial policy provisions to these bills would derail the appropriations process and provoke a needless standoff that could undermine our national security and economic stability. Instead of reviving the threat of another government shutdown or forcing a continuing resolution, we encourage you to act in the best traditions of the House and the best interest of our country by advancing appropriations bills free of contentious and divisive policy provisions. Organizations Endorsing the Letter: AFL-CIO, African American Health Alliance, AFSCME, The AIDS Institute, Alabaster, American Association for Justice, American Association of University Women, American Federation of Teachers – AFL-CIO, American Heart Association, American Lung Association, American Rivers, Americans for Financial Reform, The Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, The Cave Institute, Center for Biological Diversity, Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists, Center for Science in the Public Interest, Clean Water Action, Coalition for Health Funding, Coalition on Human Needs, Defenders of Wildlife, Democracy 21, Earthjustice, Environment America, EPI Policy Center, Green Science Policy Institute, The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, League of Conservation Voters, Main Street Alliance, MomsRising, NARAL Pro-Choice America, National Association of Consumer Advocates, National Association of Social Workers (NASW), National Education Association, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Parks Conservation Association, Natural Resources Defense Council, NETWORK – A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby, New America's Open Technology Institute, Oceana, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Progressive Congress, Public Citizen, Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities Coalition, SEIU, Sierra Club, Trust for America’s Health, United Automobile & Aerospace Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), United Steelworkers (USW), US PIRG, The Wilderness Society, Voices for Progress ###
04.18.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments on the lawsuit to block President Obama’s immigration executive actions, the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) programs. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “The DAPA and expanded DACA programs are commonsense policies that will allow hardworking immigrant families to remain together and come out of the shadows. “President Obama has the authority to determine how to best use our resources and determine priorities when it comes to our immigration laws. These programs are a legal exercise of that authority, and I am confident that the Supreme Court will agree.” ###
04.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced gave tentative approval to license Norwegian Air International (NAI) to fly to the United States. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Norwegian Air has gained a leg-up on their competition by employing questionable business tactics that violate U.S. and international labor laws and regulations. If the Department of Transportation allows them to operate in the United States, they will be choosing to reward bad practices at the cost of worker’s rights and American jobs. “It is my hope that the DOT will reverse this decision following the public comment period. If they do not, I will join my colleagues in Congress to fight to protect American workers.” ###
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Ayer los Congresistas Ruben Gallego y Bradley Byrne y 14 de sus colegas de la Cámara enviaron una carta a los principals miembros del Comité de Asignaciones pidiéndolos que financien en su totalidad la solicitud del presidente Barack Obama para la ayuda a Colombia. En Febrero, el presidente Obama anunció un nuevo paquete de ayuda de $450 millones para el año fiscal 2017 para ayudar al gobierno de Colombia en la implementación de un acuerdo de paz con la guerrilla, la FARC, después de más de cincuenta años de conflicto en el país. El financiamiento también apoyaría los esfuerzos de Colombia para hacer frente a los retos de seguridad, incluyendo la amenaza de violentos carteles de drogas. “Ahora, cuando el proceso de paz está empezando a dar sus frutos, no es el momento de reducir la ayuda financiera a nuestro aliado y socio,” escribió el grupo en una carta a la Congresista Kay Granger, presidente del Subcomité del Comité de Asignaciones de Estado, Operaciones Exranjeras y Programas Relacionados, y la Congresista Nita Lowey, que sirve como miembro de mayor rango del subcomité. “Después de décadas de equipar a Colombia para luchar, tenemos un gran interés en ayudar a los colombianos a reconstruir. Hay que seguir el fuerte apoyo bipartidista, que, por fin, ha llevado a Colombia al precipicio de la paz.” Lea aquí la carta. Los firmantes incluyen Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Bradley Byrne, Rep. James P. McGovern, Rep. Sam Farr, Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Rep. John Lewis, Rep. Linda T. Sánchez, Rep. Charles B. Rangel, Rep. James A. Himes, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Filemon Vela, Rep. Tony Cárdenas, Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Rep. Mark DeSaulnier, Rep. Keith Ellison, and Rep. Mark Pocan.
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL), and 14 of their House colleagues sent a letter to key House Appropriations Committee members asking them to fully fund President Barack Obama’s budget request for aid to Colombia. Last month, President Obama announced a new aid package totaling $450 million for FY 2017 to assist the Colombian government in implementing a potential peace deal with the FARC guerillas after more than fifty years of violent conflict in the country. The funding would also support Colombia’s efforts to address security challenges including the threat of violent drug cartels. “Now, just as the peace process is beginning to bear fruit, is not the time to reduce our financial assistance to our ally and partner,” the group wrote in a letter to Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX), chair of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs, and Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), who serves as the subcommittee’s ranking member. “After decades of equipping Colombia to fight, we have a vested interest in helping the Colombian people to rebuild. We must continue the robust, bipartisan support which, at long last, has brought Colombia to the precipice of peace.” Read the letter here. Signers include Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Bradley Byrne, Rep. James P. McGovern, Rep. Sam Farr, Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Rep. John Lewis, Rep. Linda T. Sánchez, Rep. Charles B. Rangel, Rep. James A. Himes, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Filemon Vela, Rep. Tony Cárdenas, Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Rep. Mark DeSaulnier, Rep. Keith Ellison, and Rep. Mark Pocan. ###
03.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced that he plans to nominate Judge Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy in the Supreme Court. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I congratulate Judge Merrick Garland on his nomination to the Supreme Court. Judge Garland is an experienced and respected jurist with a long history of service to our nation. “As a member of Congress who was elected to do my job, I take my constitutional duty seriously. The Constitution gives the President the responsibility to nominate Justices to the Supreme Court, and gives the Senate the job of considering that nominee. There are no exceptions for election years. Judge Garland deserves a fair hearing and a timely vote. “President Obama dd his job this morning. The Senate should now do theirs.” ###
03.01.2016	Washington, DC – The FAA’s decision in 2014 to implement new flight paths for aircraft departing from Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport had a severe impact on the quality of life for many Phoenix residents. On Tuesday, Rep. Ruben Gallego called on Congress in a floor speech to act to compel the FAA to consider steps to mitigate aircraft noise-related concerns. Language in the 2016 omnibus spending bill requires the FAA to develop a plan to address the concerns of communities exposed to high levels of aviation noise. The FAA has thus far failed to comply with that requirement. In his remarks on the House floor, Congressman Gallego called on the FAA to take the necessary action. As the Congress considers the FAA reauthorization bill, he is committed to continuing to find ways through that legislation to ensure the FAA does right by the people of Phoenix. Excerpts of Rep. Gallego’s remarks are below. The full speech can be found here. “Civic leaders, business owners, and families in Phoenix have been ignored for too long. The flight paths over our city must change and so must the course of an agency which, for too long, has disrespected Congress and disregarded the needs of my constituents. “Now is the time to pass legislation to ensure that local communities have a seat at the table when new flight paths are plotted. And let’s give local residents the ability to appeal routes that are undermining their quality of life. “Mr. Speaker, on the issue of aircraft noise, the people of Phoenix are speaking loudly and they deserve to be heard.” Rep. Gallego is a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus. ###
02.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to the shooting on the campus of Independence High School in Glendale, Arizona. “My sincerest condolences go out to the Independence High School community and the family and friends of the victims of today’s shooting. I mourn with the rest of our community for the two students who lost their lives today. “I would like to thank our first responders and the high school staff who acted quickly and the law enforcement officers who are investigating this terrible situation.” ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego led members of the Arizona Congressional delegation in sending a letter to Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell on Wednesday, asking her to take appropriate disciplinary action against National Park Service employees who are found to have engaged in sexual harassment or violence. Read the letter here. A 2014 letter of complaint from 13 current and former Grand Canyon National Park Service employees cited rampant sexual harassment and abuse. A subsequent Inspector General’s report found “evidence of a long-term pattern of sexual harassment and [a] hostile work environment,” including incidents involving employees being pressured for sex by a supervisor and facing retaliation for refusing or reporting their assaults. Signers include Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick, Rep. Martha McSally, Rep. Raúl Grijalva, Rep. Paul Gosar, Rep. Matt Salmon, Rep. David Schweikert, Rep. Trent Franks, and Rep. Kyrsten Sinema. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “All employees deserve a safe work environment free from sexual harassment or assault. The Department of the Interior has a responsibility to protect its employees from abuse and to make sure that if these incidents are reported, the victims do not suffer retaliation. “Unfortunately, the National Park Service has so far failed to appropriately respond to this issue. “I have full confidence that Secretary Jewell will act swiftly to put into place measures to protect these public servants and ensure that the proper disciplinary action is taken against any employees that commit in sexual harassment or violence.” ###
02.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – The Economic Development Administration announced today that it has awarded BioAccel, a Phoenix based non-profit aimed at improving Arizona’s health by providing bioscience entrepreneurial training and mentorship, with a $250,000 grant for its new economic development project. BioAccel plans to launch three seed funds in the biomedical and health IT sectors in order to help grow Arizona’s healthcare and biomedical sectors. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Phoenix’s healthcare and biomedical sectors are rapidly growing, and BioAccel’s new project will help create even more growth in these industries and further strengthen our local economy. “I want to congratulate BioAccel on receiving this significant award. All Arizonans should have access to quality, affordable healthcare services and BioAccel’s work is helping us to achieve that goal.” ###
02.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – In response to sustained calls from Rep. Ruben Gallego for congressional action on aviation noise in Arizona, legislation introduced this week by Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) contains several key provisions that could help to provide relief to Phoenix residents plagued by acute levels of noise from passing aircraft. Noise issues in the Phoenix area stem from the FAA’s decision in September 2014 to institute new flight paths at Sky Harbor International Airport without seeking the input of affected community members or local civic leaders. Chairman Shuster’s bill will require the FAA to review these flight path changes if the FAA Administrator determines that they have harmed communities in the vicinity of the airport. The measure also requires the FAA to consider steps to mitigate aircraft noise-related concerns if requested to do so by a local community or airport operator. In addition, the FAA will be required to submit a report to Congress on how the agency intends to improve its community engagement efforts. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I applaud Chairman Shuster for including language in the FAA Reauthorization that could finally allow my constituents some long-awaited peace and quiet. “The FAA has been indifferent to the concerns of Phoenix residents whose lives and businesses have been disrupted by the misguided flight path changes at Sky Harbor. While this bill is a welcome step forward, I believe that the language must be strengthened in order to force the FAA to stop delaying and act to provide relief to our community.” The language in Chairman Shuster’s bill, H.R. 4441, partially reflects the recommendations outlined in a July 2015 letter to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee led by Rep. Gallego. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Defense Secretary announced Tuesday that the Pentagon will delay plans to retire the A-10 Warthog until 2022. The last two budget requests from the Administration called for the retirement of the entire A-10 fleet. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “While I’m glad to hear that the Pentagon has decided to keep the A-10 Warthog flying until 2022, this is still too early to retire a plane that has immeasurable value to our U.S. troops on the ground. We recently invested about $1 billion to upgrade the fleet in order to keep it in service until 2028, and we should be certain that we have a fully viable replacement for this aircraft before we send it into retirement. “The A-10 plays a crucial role in our military strategy in the Middle East and around the world and is a key part of our current approach to combat the threat of ISIS. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I was proud to vote to preserve funding for the A-10 Warthog. I will continue to fight to preserve this aircraft until we have developed a suitable alternative.” ###
02.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in honor of Black History Month: “Black History Month is a time to celebrate the many contributions and accomplishments of African Americans. It is also a time to recognize and honor the sacrifices of those who led the way during the civil rights movement. “It’s important to recognize that the struggle for equal rights still continues today. We must do more to make sure that all children – including African American children – have equal opportunities and access to education and resources they need to succeed. We must restore and reauthorize the Voting Rights Act to ensure that every citizen has a voice and is able to fully participate in our democracy. “This February, we should reflect on how far we’ve come and make the commitment to keep fighting for social justice. I will continue working alongside my African American colleagues in Congress and with the many African American community leaders in Arizona’s 7th District as we fight for equality.” ###
01.19.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari to hear an appeal on United States v. Texas, which challenged President Obama's executive action on DAPA and the extension of DACA. The justices will take up the Obama administration's appeal of the U.S. Court of Appeals Fifth Circuit Court ruling, which upheld a lower court decision to halt the President's actions on immigration. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: "Because the Supreme Court has decided to take up this appeal, there is hope for millions of undocumented immigrants who could benefit from President Obama's executive action on immigration. "In creating the DACA and DAPA programs, President Obama acted fully within the authority given to him by Congress, following in the footsteps of past Presidents from both parties. "I am confident that the Supreme Court will agree, and that these families- many of whom are mixed-status- will finally be able to come out of the shadows." ###
01.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in response to reports that the U.S. Air Force is placing on hold its plans to retire the A-10 Warthog. The last two budget requests from the Administration called for the retirement of the entire A-10 fleet. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I was proud to vote to preserve funding for the A-10 Warthog. I am pleased to hear that the Air Force is planning to delay the retirement of this critical aircraft. “The A-10 is an invaluable tool to our Armed Forces and is an important part of our current military strategy in the Middle East and around the world. It plays a critical role in flying missions in support of our troops on the ground. Retiring the Warthog before we have a fully operational replacement would put our troops at unnecessary risk.” ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement in reaction to President Barack Obama’s 2016 State of the Union Address: “The President’s forward-looking vision recognizes the importance of American leadership on important issues like climate change, technological development, and international security. “The President has challenged Congress to fix our politics and act to do what is right for our country. I call on my Republican colleagues to work together with Democrats to advance the priorities of the American people. “Our nation’s success depends on a strong and growing middle class. We need to promote policies that will bolster the middle class and increase opportunity for our families. We need to take steps to make sure hard-working Americans can earn a fair wage, to make college more affordable, and to make sure we leave a sustainable planet for the next generation. “Like the President said tonight, we have a lot of challenges before us and it’s important to keep pushing forward. I thank President Obama for his leadership and I look forward to working with him to make this vision a reality.” ##
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced in December it would launch a series of home raids targeting Central Americans with outstanding removal orders. According to the Department of Homeland Security, 121 people were taken into custody last weekend. The detained families are from Georgia, Texas, and North Carolina. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “Many who recently arrived in the United States from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras were fleeing violence and oppression. These families have already faced severe trauma in their home countries. Invading their homes in the middle of the night only adds to this distress. “We shouldn’t be rushing to send these people back to what we already know to be extremely dangerous and life-threatening situations, especially when they present no threat to national security. “I continue to urge my colleagues to act to fix our nation’s broken immigration laws. Comprehensive reform is the only way we can fully address the many shortcomings of our current immigration system.” ##
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, President Obama announced he would take executive action on gun control. The new rules will require more gun sellers to be licensed and to conduct background checks and make it easier for authorities to hold irresponsible gun sellers accountable and to better track who owns guns. The plan will also increase mental health treatment and reporting and help shape the future of gun safety technology. Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “I met with President Obama yesterday and was encouraged to hear about the actions he is taking to help address the epidemic of gun violence in this country. It is clear that his plan will help save lives by strengthening background checks, increasing enforcement of our gun laws, improving mental health care and fueling research to make guns safer. “The plan announced today is a good first step to making our communities safer. But there is still more that can be done. It is now time for Congress to pick up where the White House left off and take additional action to protect our communities and keep our families safe. “To start, Congress should pass the bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to further strengthen background checks and close loopholes so that criminals, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have easy access to guns. “Dysfunction in Washington is no excuse for inaction. We need to do our part to prevent more mass killings like the ones in Newtown, Connecticut; Aurora, Colorado; and Tucson, Arizona. We can and must do more to address this critical problem.” ##
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed an omnibus government funding bill. Rep. Ruben Gallego voted against the bill. Rep. Gallego issued the following statement: “The omnibus bill was billed as a compromise, but in reality was packed with Republican policy provisions that only compromise our values. The omnibus should be about funding the government – not about pushing through policies that could not pass on their own. “Among the legislation’s many serious shortcomings is its failure to address the mounting fiscal crisis in Puerto Rico. The people of Puerto Rico are American citizens who vote in our elections, swear allegiance to our flag and fight and die in our wars. Yet, at a time when massive bills are coming due this Congress has turned its back on the Puerto Rican people, even though including a provision in the omnibus to allow Puerto Rico to restructure its debts wouldn’t cost the American taxpayer a penny. “The omnibus will undermine our efforts to address climate change by lifting an oil export ban that will increase our reliance on fossil fuels. Less than a week after reaching a historic climate change pact in Paris, Republicans want to undo the progress made by giving Big Oil a major victory. “The omnibus will also block critical efforts to improve the transparency of our elections. For example, it includes a misguided rider that will prevent the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from instituting rules to ensure that shareholders know how corporate funds are being used to influence politicians and political campaigns. Instead of fighting for fairness and openness in our elections, Republicans used the 2,000 page spending bill to limit disclosures and preserve the power of rich special interests. “The omnibus bill fell seriously short of expectations. A vote to support the bill would have been a vote to support bad policy.” ##
12.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego and 5 House cosponsors introduced a bipartisan resolution in support of the peace negotiations between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). The resolution recognizes the importance of the ongoing negotiations and commends Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos for his leadership in the process. It also calls on the negotiating parties to make meaningful reparations to the victims of the conflict and urges President Barack Obama to continue to support the negotiations and develop plans to support the Colombian people in building a just and lasting peace. Five original cosponsors joined Rep. Gallego in introducing the resolution, including Reps. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) and Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. (D-GA), who both serve with Rep. Gallego on the House Armed Services Committee, and Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), Sam Farr (D-CA), and Jim McGovern (D-MA). Earlier this year, Reps. Gallego and Byrne traveled to Colombia to learn more about the peace process and met with President Santos. The full text of the resolution can be found here. Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) said, “As the first Colombian American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, I am committed to strengthening the ties that bind our two nations. We have a moral obligation and a vested interest in helping the Colombian people to secure a just and lasting peace. It’s heartening to see significant strides that both parties have made at the negotiating table. I remain committed to ensuring that the Colombian government can continue to count on strong support from Congress at this critical juncture in their nation’s history.” | Contact: Christina Carr (202) 236-2268 Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) said, “Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to travel to Colombia to learn more about the peace process, and I was very impressed by the progress President Santos has made, Colombia has long been a strong ally of our country, and I believe the United States should do everything we can to support the peace process.” | Contact: Seth Morrow (202) 225-4931 Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. (D-GA) said, “As the government of Colombia and FARC are engaged in peace negotiations to end Colombia’s five decades of internal conflict that affects millions of Colombians – especially Afro-Colombians and Indigenous people – the United States should demonstrate unwavering support to this peace process. It is time for my Colombian brothers and sisters to enter a new era of sustainable peace. I remain committed to continue to work in Congress towards supporting a politically negotiated end of the conflict in Colombia, and if an agreement is reached, towards supporting its implementation.” | Contact: Andy Phelan (404) 593-9126 Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) said, “Colombia is engaged in a historic, difficult and complex negotiation to end the longest armed conflict in the hemisphere. It deserves the support of the U.S. government, the U.S. Congress and the American people. Billions of U.S. tax dollars having been invested in Colombia’s security, institutions and the protection of human rights. It is now time for us to demonstrate that same support for the peace negotiations and, if successful and an agreement reached, their implementation.” | Contact: Abraham White (202) 308-8430 Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) said, “For years, every conversation about Colombia in Congress was focused on war; now we are finally talking about peace. Getting this far has required a great deal of political will on the part of both the Colombian government and the FARC. However, the peace process is still at a delicate stage. While the people of Colombia will ultimately determine their own future, the United States must show its support for the peace process to help keep it moving forward.” | Contact: Adam Russell (202) 225-2861 ##
12.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement after delegates to the COP21 United Nations Climate Change Conference announced a final agreement to limit carbon pollution: “The agreement reached during the Paris Climate Summit is an important first step to addressing a worsening climate crisis. The historic plan will reduce carbon pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels in favor of cleaner, more sustainable energy sources. “But we must ensure that the consensus reached in Paris is the floor, and not the ceiling of our ambition. As we implement this agreement, it remains important for the United States to lead the way to a new clean energy economy. “We must fully commit to taking strong steps that will put us on a safer path for future generations. We must take charge to develop new technologies that will boost our economy and make it possible to meet our obligations under this pact. “I thank President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their leadership during the negotiations on this critical issue. Thanks to this agreement, our children and our grandchildren will inherit a cleaner planet and a healthier environment. “ ##
12.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today 19 Latino Members of Congress sent a letter to Sen. Marco Rubio urging him to stop blocking confirmation of Assistant Secretary of State for Western Affairs Roberta Jacobson, President Barack Obama’s nominee for Ambassador to Mexico. The United States has been without an Ambassador to Mexico since July, following the retirement of Tony Wayne. This lapse in leadership at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City comes at a time when the importance of the security and economic partnership between our two countries has never been greater. The Members wrote, “[Y]our decision to block Assistant Secretary Jacobson’s nomination for reasons that have nothing to do with her qualifications or even the Administration’s policies vis-à-vis Mexico will only serve to undermine a relationship that you claim to value.” The full text of the letter can be found here. Signers: Linda T. Sánchez, Ruben Gallego, Xavier Becerra, Tony Cárdenas, Joaquin Castro, Jim Costa, Henry Cuellar, Ruben Hinojosa, Ben Ray Luján, Raul M. Grijalva, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Loretta Sanchez, Jose Serrano, Norma Torres, Juan Vargas, Nydia Velázquez. House Democratic Chairman Xavier Becerra (D-CA) said, “Roberta Jacobson deserves a vote; she earned it. The hold placed on her nomination is not about her qualifications, or whether there’s someone who is better. To deny a vote on Roberta Jacobson’s nomination is undemocratic.” | Contact: Sarah Lovenheim (202) 225-6235 Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA) said, “It is wholly unacceptable that the United States Senator with the worst attendance record this year would obstruct the appointment of Roberta Jacobson to be the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. With more than 33.7 million Hispanics of Mexican origin residing in the United States – including 22.3 million born in the U.S. – Mexico is one of our most important regional and economic partners, and maintaining our close relationship is crucial to our long-term success. While I understand Sen. Rubio has his own political ambitions to serve, there is absolutely no justification for holding up the nomination of a qualified woman as Ambassador to Mexico. It’s time for Sen. Rubio to get out of the way and allow Roberta Jacobson’s nomination to be considered by the full United States Senate before the end of the year.” | Contact: Alex Nguyen (202) 225-6676 Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) said, “Sen. Rubio has made it clear that his reasons for blocking Ms. Jacobson’s confirmation are purely political. At a time when our nation faces security threats abroad, it is more important than ever to make sure our security partnership with our neighboring countries remains strong. Rubio is putting our nation’s security and our economic ties with Mexico at risk, and it’s time he put his grudges aside and did what was best for this country.” | Contact: Christina Carr (202) 236-2268 Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) said, “Trade with Mexico comprises nearly 15 percent of our total trade every year, and working with them as an ally helps define our security as a nation. It is absolutely essential that our nation have a voice in Mexico City to speak for our people, to liaise with the Mexican government and to show that we respect and honor our relationship with our neighbor to the south. To play partisan politics, with our representative to a country whose future is so closely tied to our own, is entirely unacceptable.” | Contact: Paul Kincaid (202) 225-6131 ##
12.09.2015	Washington, DC – As world leaders convene in Paris for the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, Rep. Ruben Gallego delivered a floor speech today calling for a “strong and fair” global climate agreement and challenging his colleagues in Congress to support stronger climate policies that will grow the economy and improve public health. Excerpts of his remarks are below. The full speech can be found here. “Now is the time to demonstrate our leadership and our obligation to the security and protection of our communities and our economy by committing to a robust agreement that puts us on a safer path for future generations…” “My Democratic colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee have called on Republican leadership to tackle this problem. But time and again, we have been met with silence and inaction when it comes to discussing and acting on these critical issues. “We must do better. Around the world, nations are looking to the United States for leadership on this serious issue. We must step up and join other nations who have already made commitments to act on climate change. “The facts are clear: action on climate change will not undermine our economy – it will support economic growth. In fact, acting will produce real benefits for our environment and our economy, including new businesses, better jobs, lower poverty and reduced mortality rates…” “I stand with the scientific, environmental, and public health communities who all agree that Paris must be the floor, not the ceiling of ambition. “If the world takes a step forward in Paris, our partners will be prepared to build stronger climate policies and agreements moving forward…” “When future generations look back on the progress made in Paris, I hope it will be to thank us for what we accomplished in order to leave them a healthier, safer environment. Let’s not let politics and grandstanding prevent us from taking responsibility for the planet we are leaving behind for our children and our grandchildren.” ##
12.08.2015	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego delivered a floor speech calling on Congress to take action to close the terrorist gun loophole and prohibit individuals who appear on the No Fly List from purchasing firearms. His remarks, as delivered: “Mr. Speaker, we shouldn’t allow terrorists who want to kill innocent Americans to have easy access to guns. It’s just that simple, and that’s just common sense. Yet any individual on the No Fly List, considered too dangerous to get on a plane, can walk into any gun store in America and walk out with a weapon of their choice. “We are facing an epidemic of gun violence in this country, yet House Republican leadership is unwilling to even close the most dangerous loophole like this one that exists today. “Speaker Ryan has said that, and I quote, ‘Keeping America safe should not be a partisan issue.’ I strongly agree. “We should set politics aside and do what’s right for the American people by passing common sense gun laws and stopping senseless acts of violence in our communities. “The cost of inaction in Congress is borne by thousands of mourning families here in America. It’s time for Congress to step up and take meaningful action by closing the terrorist gun loophole and keeping dangerous people from buying guns. “Thank you, I yield back.” ##
11.20.2015	Washington, DC – Hoy celebramos el primer aniversario del anuncio de la acción diferida para los padres de estadounidenses y residentes legales (DAPA) y la expansión de Acción Diferida para los llegados en la infancia (DACA) del presidente Barack Obama. DAPA protegería de la deportación a los padres de ciudadanos estadounidenses y residentes permanents legales, y les permitiría solicitar permisos de trabajo. DACA se aplica a las personas que fueron traídas a este país cuando eran niños. Ambos programas están estancados en la corte federal. El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones: “Un año despues que el presidente Obama anunció un alivio para las familias inmigrantes, la expansion de DACA y el programa DAPA permanecen atrapados en una demanda que no es más que una maniobra política. Millones de familias que se beneficiarían de estos programas permanecen en limbo debido a asuntos legales y resoluciones partidistas por un tribunal conservador especifícamente seleccionado por los republicanos. “Los republicanos quieren deportar a los padres de 5 millones de ciudadanos estadounidenses, y a los jóvenes soñadores. Eso es inconcebible y va en contra de nuestros valores como una nación construida por inmigrantes. “DACA le ha permitido a miles de jóvenes salir de las sombras, dándoles mas y mejores oportunidades y la posibilidad de una educacion universitaria. “Voy a seguir trabajando con los activistas que han luchado de manera incansable para proteger DACA y DAPA. Sé que vamos a ganar, y que el alivio se concederá a estas familias que solo buscan permanecer juntas. “Es hora de que mis colegas republicanos dejen los juegos politicos y hagan su trabajo. Pongá monos a trabajar para reformar nuestro sistema de inmigración.” ##
11.20.2015	Washington, DC – Today marks the one-year anniversary of President Barack Obama’s announcement of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) policy and the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). DAPA would protect parents of U.S. citizen and lawful permanent resident children from deportation and allow them to apply for work permits. DACA applies to people who were brought to this country as children. Both programs are currently being held up in federal court. Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “A year after President Obama announced relief for immigrant families, the DACA expansion and the DAPA program remain mired in a lawsuit that is nothing but a political stunt. Millions of families who would benefit from these programs remain in limbo due to ongoing legal challenges and partisan rulings by a conservative court hand-selected by Republicans. “Republicans want to deport the parents of 5 million U.S. citizens, and young people who are American in every way except on paper. That’s unconscionable and goes against our values as nation built by immigrants. “The DACA program has allowed thousands of young people to come out of the shadows, attain greater opportunities and access higher education. The DAPA program would allow the parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents to do the same. “I will continue to work with the tireless advocates who are fighting to protect DACA and DAPA. I know that we will win, and that relief will be granted to these families who only want to stay together. “It’s time for my Republican colleagues to stop playing games and start doing their jobs. Let’s get to work and reform our broken immigration system.” ##
11.19.2015	Rep. Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “Today, Republican leaders in the House brought forward a misguided bill to drastically alter our nation’s refugee laws. While we are still uncovering the facts about the senseless violence in Paris, we must not rush to make permanent policy changes that turn our backs on those escaping violence and torture in their home countries. “Among other provisions aimed at making an already lengthy and secure process even more difficult to navigate for vulnerable families, the bill would block the resettlement of 58,000 Iraqi refugees who have family in the United States, who served as interpreters for the U.S. military or have other close U.S. affiliations and have been waiting months for resettlement. Having fought in Iraq and worked alongside these interpreters, it is unfathomable that we would honor their service to our country and our troops by erecting additional barriers to reuniting them with their families while they face danger as a result of their sacrifices. “I am disappointed and alarmed by the Republican rush to politically capitalize on the tragic events in Paris. Even in the wake of a series of devastating terror attacks, the French government has already reaffirmed its commitment to accepting refugees. The United States should do the same. “Instead of embracing the politics of fear and division, I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to preserve the American tradition of welcoming those ‘yearning to breathe free’ from around the world.” ##
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, Nov. 19, members of the House Democratic Caucus joined public interest groups and progressive organizations to call on House Leadership to reject divisive policy riders in the FY 2016 Omnibus and to bring a clean spending bill to the floor. More than 160 Members of Congress signed a letter to House Leadership calling on them to prevent another unnecessary government shutdown by rejecting poison-pill provisions and partisan brinksmanship. The full letter can be found here. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-IL, said, “With only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down, it’s time for Republicans to stop the games and pass a clean funding bill without any ‘riders’ whatsoever. This means no partisan policy provisions that attack women’s reproductive rights, undermine the Affordable Care Act, are anti-labor, are anti-consumer, weaken environmental provisions, or any such toxic provisions that have nothing to do with funding our government. Today, I’m proud to stand with over 160 of my colleagues in a promise to vote against any legislation that contains such partisan provisions. With such little time left, Speaker Ryan must stand up to the reckless voices in his conference and work with Democrats to pass a clean funding bill.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield, D-NC, said, “It is critical that we bring a clean spending bill to the floor if we want to prevent another government shutdown. These policy riders prioritize special interests and politics over the needs of hardworking American families, and they would cut much needed funding to transportation, education, law enforcement, and to our veterans. We have an obligation to build on the progress of the Bipartisan Budget Act and move America forward.” Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-AZ, said, “Republicans are threatening to shut down the government by pursuing an extreme agenda through radical policy provisions. A government shutdown would hurt countless disabled veterans, disadvantaged children, small businesses, and working families across the country. It’s time for this kind of partisan brinksmanship to end. There are only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down. House Leadership should act immediately to introduce and pass a clean funding bill with no riders.” Rep. Patrick E. Murphy, D-FL, said, “Continuing to insert partisan policies into must-pass legislation only serves to further divide our nation. We should instead be working together to tackle the many serious challenges facing our country. I am hopeful that following the passage of the two-year bipartisan budget agreement last month, Congress will once again come together and do the right thing for the American people by passing a clean, long-term funding measure to at long last put an end to this trend of governing by crisis and provide much-needed certainty to our economy.” Rep. Doris Matsui, D-CA, said, “Using the appropriations process to achieve extreme objectives through radical policy riders is irresponsible and shortsighted. As Democrats, we will continue to protect the American people from dangerous cuts to essential services, while working to keep the government open and avert a devastating shutdown.” Dana Singiser, Vice President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America said, “Opponents of women’s health are trying to co-opt the appropriations process in order to strip health care from millions. Time after time they have tried, and failed, to ban patients from seeking care at Planned Parenthood and deny low income women access to basic health services – and now they want to expand abortion restrictions and allow insurance plans to deny coverage of services based on religious objections. The American people are sick of these political games.” Sasha Bruce, Senior Vice President of Campaigns and Strategy, NARAL Pro-Choice America said, “Passing a clean budget – one with no restrictions on women’s reproductive freedom – is an opportunity to keep our government and vital programs running, but an extreme minority of the GOP has been monopolizing Congress’ time and wasting taxpayer dollars to further their anti-choice agenda at every turn. Despite the fact that seven in 10 voters believe in reproductive freedom, regardless of their personal views, the GOP is obsessed with restricting women’s rights, and the budget shouldn’t be another vehicle for them to do so. Instead of adding more obstacles to finalizing the budget, members of Congress need to leave their ideological agenda at the door – Americans can’t afford to wait.” Lee Saunders, President of AFSCME said, “Americans need relief from the endless cycle of budget brinksmanship and sequester caps that continue to hurt our communities. Congress must pass a clean budget that puts working families first and invests in the crumbling roads, bridges, schools and other vital resources that we all rely on.” Gene Karpinski, President of the League of Conservation Voters said, “The American people deserve a budget that fully funds the environmental safeguards that protect public health and preserve the clean air and water our families depend on. Ideological riders that protect the profits of big polluters and block initiatives with widespread public support – like the Clean Water Rule, Clean Power Plan and endangered species protections – have no place in this process. We are calling on Congress to pass a clean budget.” Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen said, “The hundreds of riders included in the government spending bills represent Washington’s deep corruption at its worst. Stealthy, out-of-order maneuvers are being used to force through unpopular legislative provisions, imposing enormous harm on the American public to benefit corporate donors. The examples are legion and include riders that block consumers from winning an effective right to sue banks that rip them off, weaken an important tobacco control measure, stop the FDA from ensuring the safety of generic drugs, block crucial truck safety rules and derail rules that would require large corporations to disclose their political spending.” Lisa Donner, President of Americans for Financial Reform, said “Attaching Wall Street deregulation measures or other radical riders to “must-pass” spending bills hands an early Holiday Bonus to Wall Street. Forcing dangerous and unpopular proposals through Congress with a minimum of open debate or public scrutiny is undemocratic. We call on Congress to pass a clean budget.” ## Washington, DC – On Thursday, Nov. 19, members of the House Democratic Caucus joined public interest groups and progressive organizations to call on House Leadership to reject divisive policy riders in the FY 2016 Omnibus and to bring a clean spending bill to the floor. More than 160 Members of Congress signed a letter to House Leadership calling on them to prevent another unnecessary government shutdown by rejecting poison-pill provisions and partisan brinksmanship. The full letter can be found here. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-IL, said, “With only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down, it’s time for Republicans to stop the games and pass a clean funding bill without any ‘riders’ whatsoever. This means no partisan policy provisions that attack women’s reproductive rights, undermine the Affordable Care Act, are anti-labor, are anti-consumer, weaken environmental provisions, or any such toxic provisions that have nothing to do with funding our government. Today, I’m proud to stand with over 160 of my colleagues in a promise to vote against any legislation that contains such partisan provisions. With such little time left, Speaker Ryan must stand up to the reckless voices in his conference and work with Democrats to pass a clean funding bill.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield, D-NC, said, “It is critical that we bring a clean spending bill to the floor if we want to prevent another government shutdown. These policy riders prioritize special interests and politics over the needs of hardworking American families, and they would cut much needed funding to transportation, education, law enforcement, and to our veterans. We have an obligation to build on the progress of the Bipartisan Budget Act and move America forward.” Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-AZ, said, “Republicans are threatening to shut down the government by pursuing an extreme agenda through radical policy provisions. A government shutdown would hurt countless disabled veterans, disadvantaged children, small businesses, and working families across the country. It’s time for this kind of partisan brinksmanship to end. There are only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down. House Leadership should act immediately to introduce and pass a clean funding bill with no riders.” Rep. Patrick E. Murphy, D-FL, said, “Continuing to insert partisan policies into must-pass legislation only serves to further divide our nation. We should instead be working together to tackle the many serious challenges facing our country. I am hopeful that following the passage of the two-year bipartisan budget agreement last month, Congress will once again come together and do the right thing for the American people by passing a clean, long-term funding measure to at long last put an end to this trend of governing by crisis and provide much-needed certainty to our economy.” Rep. Doris Matsui, D-CA, said, “Using the appropriations process to achieve extreme objectives through radical policy riders is irresponsible and shortsighted. As Democrats, we will continue to protect the American people from dangerous cuts to essential services, while working to keep the government open and avert a devastating shutdown.” Dana Singiser, Vice President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America said, “Opponents of women’s health are trying to co-opt the appropriations process in order to strip health care from millions. Time after time they have tried, and failed, to ban patients from seeking care at Planned Parenthood and deny low income women access to basic health services – and now they want to expand abortion restrictions and allow insurance plans to deny coverage of services based on religious objections. The American people are sick of these political games.” Sasha Bruce, Senior Vice President of Campaigns and Strategy, NARAL Pro-Choice America said, “Passing a clean budget – one with no restrictions on women’s reproductive freedom – is an opportunity to keep our government and vital programs running, but an extreme minority of the GOP has been monopolizing Congress’ time and wasting taxpayer dollars to further their anti-choice agenda at every turn. Despite the fact that seven in 10 voters believe in reproductive freedom, regardless of their personal views, the GOP is obsessed with restricting women’s rights, and the budget shouldn’t be another vehicle for them to do so. Instead of adding more obstacles to finalizing the budget, members of Congress need to leave their ideological agenda at the door – Americans can’t afford to wait.” Lee Saunders, President of AFSCME said, “Americans need relief from the endless cycle of budget brinksmanship and sequester caps that continue to hurt our communities. Congress must pass a clean budget that puts working families first and invests in the crumbling roads, bridges, schools and other vital resources that we all rely on.” Gene Karpinski, President of the League of Conservation Voters said, “The American people deserve a budget that fully funds the environmental safeguards that protect public health and preserve the clean air and water our families depend on. Ideological riders that protect the profits of big polluters and block initiatives with widespread public support – like the Clean Water Rule, Clean Power Plan and endangered species protections – have no place in this process. We are calling on Congress to pass a clean budget.” Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen said, “The hundreds of riders included in the government spending bills represent Washington’s deep corruption at its worst. Stealthy, out-of-order maneuvers are being used to force through unpopular legislative provisions, imposing enormous harm on the American public to benefit corporate donors. The examples are legion and include riders that block consumers from winning an effective right to sue banks that rip them off, weaken an important tobacco control measure, stop the FDA from ensuring the safety of generic drugs, block crucial truck safety rules and derail rules that would require large corporations to disclose their political spending.” Lisa Donner, President of Americans for Financial Reform, said “Attaching Wall Street deregulation measures or other radical riders to “must-pass” spending bills hands an early Holiday Bonus to Wall Street. Forcing dangerous and unpopular proposals through Congress with a minimum of open debate or public scrutiny is undemocratic. We call on Congress to pass a clean budget.” ## Washington, DC – On Thursday, Nov. 19, members of the House Democratic Caucus joined public interest groups and progressive organizations to call on House Leadership to reject divisive policy riders in the FY 2016 Omnibus and to bring a clean spending bill to the floor. More than 160 Members of Congress signed a letter to House Leadership calling on them to prevent another unnecessary government shutdown by rejecting poison-pill provisions and partisan brinksmanship. The full letter can be found here. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-IL, said, “With only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down, it’s time for Republicans to stop the games and pass a clean funding bill without any ‘riders’ whatsoever. This means no partisan policy provisions that attack women’s reproductive rights, undermine the Affordable Care Act, are anti-labor, are anti-consumer, weaken environmental provisions, or any such toxic provisions that have nothing to do with funding our government. Today, I’m proud to stand with over 160 of my colleagues in a promise to vote against any legislation that contains such partisan provisions. With such little time left, Speaker Ryan must stand up to the reckless voices in his conference and work with Democrats to pass a clean funding bill.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield, D-NC, said, “It is critical that we bring a clean spending bill to the floor if we want to prevent another government shutdown. These policy riders prioritize special interests and politics over the needs of hardworking American families, and they would cut much needed funding to transportation, education, law enforcement, and to our veterans. We have an obligation to build on the progress of the Bipartisan Budget Act and move America forward.” Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-AZ, said, “Republicans are threatening to shut down the government by pursuing an extreme agenda through radical policy provisions. A government shutdown would hurt countless disabled veterans, disadvantaged children, small businesses, and working families across the country. It’s time for this kind of partisan brinksmanship to end. There are only eight legislative days remaining until our government shuts down. House Leadership should act immediately to introduce and pass a clean funding bill with no riders.” Rep. Patrick E. Murphy, D-FL, said, “Continuing to insert partisan policies into must-pass legislation only serves to further divide our nation. We should instead be working together to tackle the many serious challenges facing our country. I am hopeful that following the passage of the two-year bipartisan budget agreement last month, Congress will once again come together and do the right thing for the American people by passing a clean, long-term funding measure to at long last put an end to this trend of governing by crisis and provide much-needed certainty to our economy.” Rep. Doris Matsui, D-CA, said, “Using the appropriations process to achieve extreme objectives through radical policy riders is irresponsible and shortsighted. As Democrats, we will continue to protect the American people from dangerous cuts to essential services, while working to keep the government open and avert a devastating shutdown.” Dana Singiser, Vice President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America said, “Opponents of women’s health are trying to co-opt the appropriations process in order to strip health care from millions. Time after time they have tried, and failed, to ban patients from seeking care at Planned Parenthood and deny low income women access to basic health services – and now they want to expand abortion restrictions and allow insurance plans to deny coverage of services based on religious objections. The American people are sick of these political games.” Sasha Bruce, Senior Vice President of Campaigns and Strategy, NARAL Pro-Choice America said, “Passing a clean budget – one with no restrictions on women’s reproductive freedom – is an opportunity to keep our government and vital programs running, but an extreme minority of the GOP has been monopolizing Congress’ time and wasting taxpayer dollars to further their anti-choice agenda at every turn. Despite the fact that seven in 10 voters believe in reproductive freedom, regardless of their personal views, the GOP is obsessed with restricting women’s rights, and the budget shouldn’t be another vehicle for them to do so. Instead of adding more obstacles to finalizing the budget, members of Congress need to leave their ideological agenda at the door – Americans can’t afford to wait.” Lee Saunders, President of AFSCME said, “Americans need relief from the endless cycle of budget brinksmanship and sequester caps that continue to hurt our communities. Congress must pass a clean budget that puts working families first and invests in the crumbling roads, bridges, schools and other vital resources that we all rely on.” Gene Karpinski, President of the League of Conservation Voters said, “The American people deserve a budget that fully funds the environmental safeguards that protect public health and preserve the clean air and water our families depend on. Ideological riders that protect the profits of big polluters and block initiatives with widespread public support – like the Clean Water Rule, Clean Power Plan and endangered species protections – have no place in this process. We are calling on Congress to pass a clean budget.” Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen said, “The hundreds of riders included in the government spending bills represent Washington’s deep corruption at its worst. Stealthy, out-of-order maneuvers are being used to force through unpopular legislative provisions, imposing enormous harm on the American public to benefit corporate donors. The examples are legion and include riders that block consumers from winning an effective right to sue banks that rip them off, weaken an important tobacco control measure, stop the FDA from ensuring the safety of generic drugs, block crucial truck safety rules and derail rules that would require large corporations to disclose their political spending.” Lisa Donner, President of Americans for Financial Reform, said “Attaching Wall Street deregulation measures or other radical riders to “must-pass” spending bills hands an early Holiday Bonus to Wall Street. Forcing dangerous and unpopular proposals through Congress with a minimum of open debate or public scrutiny is undemocratic. We call on Congress to pass a clean budget.” ##
11.17.2015	Washington, DC – In the aftermath of the attacks in Paris, there has been an uptick in anti-refugee sentiment, and some Republicans have even proposed that the United States end refugee resettlement altogether. Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “We have a moral responsibility to help those escaping violence and torture in their home countries, while also taking steps to ensure the protection of the American people. “Refugees who come to the United States are subject to the highest level of security screening before they are ever allowed to enter the country. The U.S. government takes this screening very seriously, and the system has been significantly enhanced in recent years. “I am also alarmed by the hateful anti-Muslim rhetoric coming from some in the Republican Party. Refugees come to the United States fleeing the same type of senseless violence that occurred in Paris. The vast majority of ISIS’s victims have been Muslim, and most Syrian refugees are families with children. ISIS is a terrorist organization and does not represent the beliefs of the Muslim religion. “Allowing ISIS to stoke fear and anti-Muslim sentiment is counter to our American values found on the Statue of Liberty. We should not let fear caused by terrorism overcome our sense of morality. “I support the Obama Administration in its commitment to resettle refugees fleeing violence in a safe manner, consistent with our national security.” ##
11.16.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego announced today his office is seeking a Wounded Warrior fellow to serve as an Intake Case Worker in his Phoenix, Arizona Congressional Office. Primary responsibilities of the position will include processing constituents with casework issues and communicating with constituents who contact the office. The Wounded Warrior Program was established by the House of Representatives in 2008 and offers veterans the opportunity to serve in a district Congressional office for two years. Full position details are available below or can be found here. Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “As a proud veteran of the U.S. Marines Corps, I understand the importance of supporting our veterans when they return home. The Congressional Wounded Warrior Fellowship program provides unique employment opportunities to wounded and disabled veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars. Veterans have experience and skillsets that are valuable assets for Congressional offices serving our constituents. I am proud to participate in this important program and encourage all who are interested and who meet the eligibility requirements to apply.” ##
11.10.2015	Washington, DC –Rep. Ruben Gallego and four cosponsors announced that they will introduce the Delivering Opportunities for Care and Services (DOCS) for Veterans Act to improve medical services and care for our nation’s veterans. The bill will enhance opportunities for the VA to partner with local affiliates to train providers. It will also take steps to improve recruitment by the VA and boost incentives for those who practice in underserved areas, bolstering the VA medical workforce and ultimately enhancing the quality of care for veterans. The bill will also improve the support system for veterans and their families by including mental health counselors, marriage and family therapists in the VA’s training program. By removing barriers to mental health care, the bill will allow veterans greater access to critical family resources and support. The bill is a House companion bill to S. 1676, introduced by Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT). The bill’s original cosponsors include Reps. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Mike Honda (D-AZ), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Elizabeth Esty (D-CT). Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “While bipartisan reform efforts have been an important first step in addressing inexcusable backlogs and getting our veterans the care they need now, I know that real and lasting reform means going further. We need to take a big-picture approach on issues that have plagued the VA for decades and were further compounded by the failure of Congress to adequately fund the VA as a new generation of veterans – my generation – returned from service with unique needs. “That’s why I’m proud to introduce the Delivering Opportunities for Care and Services for Veterans Act – the DOCS for Vets Act. This bill will take needed steps to bringing the VA into the 21st century and equipping it with the tools it badly needs to be able to successfully serve our veterans. “I’m not going to stop fighting to improve care for veterans in Phoenix and across the country. The DOCS for Vets Act is a smart solution for vets and their families. I want to thank Senator Tester for his leadership on this issue in the Senate, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to push this commonsense legislation in the House.” ##
11.10.2015	Washington, DC – The Air Force announced Tuesday that it is considering delaying the retirement of the A-10 Warthog aircraft. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I was proud to vote to preserve funding for the A-10 Warthog and I am pleased today to hear that the Air Force is considering delaying the retirement of this critical aircraft. The A-10 plays a vital role in flying missions in support of our troops on the ground and is an important part of our current military strategy. Retiring the Warthog before we have a fully operational replacement would put our troops in unnecessary danger.”
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego and 14 cosponsors introduced the FAA Community Accountability Act to give local communities a say in the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision-making process regarding flight paths. The FAA Community Accountability Act would establish a new process to compel the FAA to reconsider existing flight routes that are exposing residents to unacceptably high levels of aviation noise. The legislation would also end the presumption under current law that flight paths implemented through the NextGen program may not follow pre-existing routes, even when these paths better reflect land use around the airport. The bill would designate Community Ombudsmen to serve as effective, independent voices for airport communities within the agency. Finally, the bill would prevent the FAA from bypassing the environmental review process for new flight paths over the objections of local communities. The bills original cosponsors include Reps. David Schweikert (R-AZ), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Steve Israel (D-NY), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA)Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Alan Grayson (D-FL), and Don Beyer (D-VA). Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “Last September, the FAA altered flight paths for aircrafts departing from Phoenix’s Sky Harbor International Airport. The changes were made without meaningful input or consultation with community members or civic leaders, and have caused severe noise disruptions that have lowered the quality of life for many members of my community. My bill would help address this problem in Phoenix and make sure that other communities across the country don’t suffer the same consequences of the FAA’s opaque decision-making process.” Rep. Steve Israel said, “Airplane noise continues to have a negative impact on the lives of my constituents in Queens and Nassau county. This bill will ensure that residents affected by airplane noise have a voice in urging the FAA to reconsider placing these noisy flight paths over their homes and communities.” | Contact: Joe Knickrehm (202-225-3335) Rep. Mike Quigley said, “My constituents back home in Chicago are facing unprecedented noise pollution from passing aircraft that is eroding their quality of life, lowering their property values, and impacting their health. But this is clearly not just a Chicago issue. Communities across the country are experiencing increased airplane noise, and it’s time for the FAA to be more accountable and responsive to their concerns. I’m proud to introduce the FAA Community Accountability Act with my colleagues to ensure that the voices of our constituents are heard before any changes to flight paths are considered.” | Contact: Emily Hampsten (202-225-4061) Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick said, “Phoenix residents have every right to be frustrated, not only by disruptive noise from new flight paths but by the FAA’s unwillingness to listen. It shouldn’t have taken congressional action to find a solution, but if that’s what it takes then we’ll fight for these folks until the FAA is responsive and accountable.” | Contact: Jennifer Johnson (202-225-3361) Rep. Don Beyer said, “Our communities deserve greater input in the FAA’s processes to minimize airplane noise. I am proud to join Congressman Gallego in urging the FAA to be more inclusive in considering the impact of its flight paths.” | Contact: Thomas Scanlon (202-225-4376) Rep. Joseph Crowley said, “Unfortunately, aircraft noise pollution isn’t merely a nuisance – it poses health risks, disrupts student learning and drowns out the joys of daily life. Our airports will never be perfect neighbors, but we can certainly work to make them better ones. I’m proud to join Congressman Gallego in sponsoring this much-needed legislation that will go a long way in helping communities impacted by aircraft noise.” | Contact: Courtney Gidner (202-225-3965) Rep. Stephen F. Lynch said, “Many of the towns and neighborhoods that I represent are close to Logan Airport and the residents in our area have faced a huge increase in airplane noise and a total lack of responsiveness from the FAA. Some of these citizens and taxpayers have 500 planes fly directly over their homes each day – and they deserve to have their voices heard and they are entitled to some relief. I am proud to cosponsor Congressman Gallego’s bill, which will demand accountability and create a dialogue between these affected communities and the FAA.” | Contact: Elizabeth Zappala (202-226-1918) Rep. Anna G. Eshoo said, “New flight paths associated with implementation of the FAA’s NextGen satellite-based navigation program have caused major increases in aircraft noise. For thousands of Americans, including so many throughout my congressional district, a family conversation at the dinner table, sitting outside, or trying to sleep have all been disrupted because of the roar of jet engines overhead. I’m proud to be part of the effort to resolve this untenable situation by introducing the FAA Community Accountability Act, which requires the FAA to work with local communities and limit noise impacts when planning and implementing new flight paths with NextGen. This legislation can mitigate unacceptable high levels of aircraft noise while continually modernizing our aviation system.” | Contact: Charles Stewart (202-225-8104) ##
10.26.2015	Washington, DC – The Department of Transportation announced today that the City of Phoenix’s Grand Canal Bike and Pedestrian Improvements Project has been awarded a $10.3 million grant by the department’s National Infrastructure Investments or TIGER VII Discretionary Grant Program. The funding will help the Project to complete canal trails and street crossings for walking and cycling over about 8 miles of the Grand Canalscape. It will also provide important connections to bus and light rail lines as well as to the region’s growing pedestrian and bicycle network. Congressman Ruben Gallego sent a letter in July to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of the City of Phoenix’s grant application. Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “The Grand Canalscape project will provide Phoenix residents with a safer means of walking or biking to work or to school. It will also link members of economically-challenged communities to nearby schools, employment centers, and to vital services including hospitals and medical centers. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix on receiving this significant award, which will allow it to make great strides toward improving cyclist and pedestrian infrastructure and safety.” ##
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego signed up as a co-sponsor to H.R. 3785, a bill introduced by Congressman Joaquin Castro (D-TX) that would remove the offensive and arcane language characterizing immigrants as “aliens” from federal law and agency documentation. The Correcting Hurtful and Alienating Names in Government Expression (CHANGE) Act would strike all instances of the word “alien” from the U.S. code and replace it with “foreign national.” The term “illegal alien” would be replaced with the term “undocumented foreign national.” The bill would also prohibit executive agencies from using “alien” or “illegal alien” in any signage or literature. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Words matter. The term ‘alien’ is dehumanizing and offensive, and contributes to the prejudice and xenophobia that have become a too-familiar part of the national conversation on immigration. “Immigrants, with or without status, are human beings and deserve to be treated with respect. The CHANGE Act will take a long overdue step in acknowledging this simple fact, and I hope it will help to change the dialogue as we move forward with efforts to fix our nation’s broken immigration system.” ##
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego, Congresswoman Robin Kelly, and 38 Democrats sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting a meeting to discuss steps that can be taken to address gun violence in minority communities. Gallego and Kelly have previously called on the Attorney General to increase federal enforcement efforts aimed at irresponsible gun dealers who sell weapons to criminals. Read the letter here. Signers include Reps. Gallego, Robin Kelly, Butterfield, Chu, Duckworth, Napolitano, Norton, Lee, Honda, Vargas, Moore, Corrine Brown, Lujan Grisham, Grijalva, Lawrence, Edwards, Alma Adams, Rangel, Serrano, Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Bennie Thompson, Matsui, Bass, Roybal-Allard, Cárdenas, Watson Coleman, Hastings, Meeks, Lieu, Fudge, Clay, Fattah, Meng, Ellison, Gutiérrez, Sires, Elijah E. Cummings, Carson, Richmond, and Payne. Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) said, “Republican leadership has shamefully refused to answer the call to act to prevent senseless tragedies like the recent shootings in Oregon and South Carolina. But there is still much that can be done to address the scourge of gun violence, especially in communities of color – including enforcement efforts aimed at the relatively small number of irresponsible gun dealers who sell the vast majority of the guns used in criminal activity. I am committed to working with Attorney General Lynch to find ways to combat the epidemic of gun violence that disproportionately plagues minority communities across the country.”ways to combat the epidemic of gun violence that disproportionately plagues minority communities across the country.” Rep. Robin Kelly (D-IL) said, “One of the surest ways to reduce gun violence is to deny sales to those who shouldn’t be allowed to purchase a gun. Republican leadership in Congress has made it clear that they will not bring common sense gun violence prevention legislation to the floor for a vote. Therefore, to bring an end to this senseless violence, we must work with Attorney General Lynch and the Department of Justice to craft guidelines and best practices for gun dealers. It’s time that gun dealers take responsibility for their products, which have real and deadly consequences when placed in the wrong hands.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said, “In Chicago, we seem to lose a whole classroom full of children every week to gun violence with forty and fifty shootings in a weekend. The help has to come from the federal level because whatever we do in Chicago, guns are coming from Wisconsin, Indiana, Iowa and other places outside the city. Our communities need action now.”
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – The White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics recently recognized four organizations in Arizona’s 7th District as “Bright Spots in Hispanic Education.” Congressman Gallego delivered a floor speech yesterday congratulating the Bright Spots in his district. His remarks, as prepared: “Mr. Speaker, as we close Hispanic Heritage month and look back at our community’s history and ongoing challenges, I rise today to celebrate the 25th Anniversary of the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics. “For 25 years, the Initiative has played an important role in advancing the dialogue and policies that have helped move our community forward. “This year, as part of its anniversary celebration, the Initiative released the “Bright Spots in Hispanic Education” online national catalog. The catalog features 230 programs, organizations, and initiatives that are supporting and investing in the educational attainment of Hispanic, from cradle-to-career. “Today, I congratulate four Bright Spots in my district that have been recognized for their outstanding commitment and contributions to our community: the American Dream Academy, the Bilingual Nursing Fellows Program, the Fowler Head Start Program, and the Victoria Foundation. “These programs are leading the way to close the education gap. I look forward to continuing to work with them as we find ways to ensure every child, including Latino children, have the tools they need to succeed.” The American Dream Academy provides training to parents of school-aged children to enable the parents to become effective advocates for their children’s education. The program aims to increase graduation rates for students in underserved areas of Maricopa County by giving parents the tools they need to support their children’s academic careers. South Mountain Community College’s Bilingual Nursing Fellows Program (BNFP)is a three-year nursing cohort program that aims to increase the number of bilingual Registered Nurses in order to address the critical shortage of Spanish-speaking nurses in Arizona. The program offers tutoring and other academic support to students, and assists them with finding employment opportunities upon graduation. The Fowler Head Start Program offers individualized educational opportunities to preschoolers in Phoenix. The program teaches children how to build community and enhance their social skills and helps them to prepare for their academic futures. The Victoria Foundation was the first Latino Community Foundation in the United States. The organization uses micro grants, nonprofit incubators, and donor-advised funds to make a positive difference in education programs in Phoenix. The organization has also created a scholarship fund that has awarded 863 scholarships. ##
10.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego will host a community dialogue on the need to restore the Voting Rights Act, along with a celebration of the VRA’s 50th anniversary in collaboration with his African American Advisory Council. Civil rights leaders from Arizona, including Mrs. Madge Copeland, Rev. Dr. George Benjamin Brooks, and Gov. Raul Castro will be honored during the event. The event will take place on Friday, Oct. 30 from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Phoenix College’s Bulpitt Auditorium, 1202 W. Thomas Road, Phoenix, AZ 85013. Congressman Gallego issued the following statement: “The Voting Rights Act has played a crucial role in protecting Americans’ right to vote. But the Republican Congress has refused to allow a renewed and strengthened Voting Rights Act to come to the House floor. “We cannot stand idly by while hardworking Americans are disenfranchised and left without a voice in our democracy. It’s time to take real and meaningful steps to restore the Voting Rights Act and make sure that every American has access to the ballot box.” ##
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement on the shooting at Northern Arizona University: “I am heartbroken by the news of this morning’s shooting on the campus of Northern Arizona University. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families and the entire Northern Arizona University community during this time of grief. “I appreciate the efforts of the law enforcement officers and campus officials who are investigating the incident, and of the staff at Flagstaff Medical Center who are working to treat the three survivors. “As a nation, we must take steps to put an end to these senseless tragedies.” ##
10.07.2015	Washington, DC – The Department of Veterans Affairs recently awarded two contracts intended to improve access to VA health care in the metropolitan Phoenix area. A new contract for clinical space in the Camelback Medical Plaza is expected to provide primary care, mental health care and other services to more than 15,000 veterans. A second contract will fund development of the Southwest Community Based Outpatient Clinic at Estrella Health Center, which will provide care to more than 8,000 veterans. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “The men and women who serve our country deserve the best access to medical services and mental health care. These two new contracts will help thousands of veterans to receive the care they need. “I welcome the Department of Veterans Affairs efforts to improve the lives of Phoenix’s veterans and our families. This is a step in the right direction, and I am committed to working with the VA to do even more so that we honor the service and sacrifice of our nation’s veterans.” ##
10.07.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego delivered a floor speech calling on Republican leadership to pass a clean debt limit extension. See his prepared remarks below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of President Obama’s announcement on Friday that he will not negotiate with the Republican Congress over raising the debt limit. This is the right decision because there is nothing to negotiate. There is only one simple path forward – to pass a clean debt limit extension that protects our nation’s full faith and credit. “Unfortunately, last week, the Majority Leader and the presumptive next Speaker of the House went on national television and committed to fight to the end to defund the ACA and the President’s immigration executive actions. I fear – as we all should – what this might mean. “Are he and House Republicans going to threaten to shut down the government to pursue this extreme agenda? Are they going to hold our nation’s full faith and credit hostage? Mr. Speaker, for five years now, House Republicans have hurtled the Congress and the country from one manufactured crisis to another. This must stop and must stop now. “With only 30 days left before we hit the debt limit, the Republican Congress should act immediately to take the prospect of a catastrophic default off the table. Thank you.” ##
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego announced the hire of Christina Carr as his new Communications Director. Prior to joining Congressman Gallego’s office, Christina worked for several immigration law firms, the Department of Labor, and most recently as an immigration analyst and reporter for CQ Roll Call. Christina will be joining Congressman Gallego’s team on September 30th. “I’m very excited to welcome Christina to our office. Aside from being an excellent communicator, Christina brings with her years of policy and legal experience that will be an asset to my office,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. As of October 1st please contact Christina at Christina.carr@mail.house.gov for any media inquiries.
09.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about the agreement reached by Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC): “Yesterday’s announcement from President Santos represents a significant breakthrough in the peace talks between the Colombian government and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC). It marks another critical milestone on the path to ending the longest running conflict in our hemisphere. “Issues of justice, truth and reconciliation are among the most difficult to resolve in any peace process and it’s heartening to see the great strides that both parties have taken at the talks in Havana. I appreciate the attention of the negotiators to the rights of victims on all sides, and I look forward to learning more about the details of the accord.” “I also extend my congratulations to President Santos for his bold leadership in seeking a just conclusion to this conflict and express my appreciation to US Special Envoy Bernie Aronson for his hard work in facilitating the progress we have seen to date. “Colombia is America’s closest ally in the region, and robust US assistance will be critical in implementing a final peace agreement. I remain committed to ensuring that the Colombian government can continue to count on strong support from Congress at this critical juncture in the country’s history.”
09.28.2015	Washington, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el acuerdo entre el Presidente de Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos y las Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC). “El día de ayer el Presidente Santos anunció un acuerdo entre el gobierno de Colombia y las FARC. Este acuerdo marca un progreso significativo en el proceso para conseguir la paz en Colombia. “Cuando se trata de llegar a la justicia, de descubrir la verdad y de conseguir la reconciliación, el proceso nunca es fácil, pero me da esperanza ver que los dos partidos estén tomando grandes pasos como estos. Aprecio las atención de los negociadores a los derechos de las víctimas de los dos lados, y espero con ansias aprender más sobre los detalles del acuerdo “Quiero felicitar al Presidente Santos por su liderazgo al buscar un final justo para este conflicto. Y quiero darle las gracias al enviado especial de los Estados Unidos Bernie Aronson por su arduo trabajo facilitando las pláticas. “Colombia es el aliado más cercano de los estados unidos en la región, y la ayuda estadounidense va a ser crítica al implementar el acuerdo de paz final. Sigo comprometido a asegurar que el gobierno colombiano pueda contar con el apoyo del Congreso durante este momento crítico en la historia del país.”
09.24.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Gallego released the following reaction to Pope Francis’ address to Congress. “Today Pope Francis challenged us to seek the political courage to tackle some of the most important issues of our time – migration of people, poverty, climate change, violence. He asked us to treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves, but above all he encouraged us to seek dialogue, peace, respect and cooperation. At a time of political divide, the Pope’s message was loud and clear. I hope it resonates with Members of Congress and with the American people so that we can find middle ground, work together for the common good and respond to the Holy Father’s calling with action on these critical issues.”
09.23.2015	Rep. Gallego Announces Program Grants for Three MCCCD Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions in Maricopa County Phoenix, AZ – Today the Department of Education announced program grants for three developing Hispanic Serving Institutions that are part of the Maricopa County Community College District schools. The grants are expected to be for 5 years and total $7.8 million dollars. Phoenix College will receive $524,958 each year for five years Glendale Community College will receive $524,784 each year for five years Gateway Community College will receive $524,789 each year for five years Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “These three colleges have been designated Hispanic Serving Institutions (HIS) – they provide higher education for low income, sometimes first generation Hispanics who are looking to get a degree and move ahead. The Hispanic Serving Institutions Program Grants will help all three institutions improve their academic program, and institutional stability. The grants will allow the three schools to provide the necessary tools and resources to support different kinds of learning, expand opportunities for Hispanic students and increase the rate of course/degree completion. “I want to Congratulate Phoenix College, Glendale Community College and Gateway College for their hard work and commitment to expanding opportunities for young Hispanics and giving them the educational opportunities they needed to succeed.”
09.22.2015	Phoenix, AZ – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement welcoming Pope Francis to the United States: “I want to welcome Pope Francis to the United States. Catholics and non-Catholics across the country recognize the importance of his Holiness– not just as a religious figure, but also as a world leader - and will be attentively listening to his message during this visit. Our agenda of fighting for economic fairness and increasing opportunity for all, taking care of our environment, and welcoming the immigrant are very much in line with the Pope’s values and we hope that during his visit the Pope highlights how important it is for us to come together and work in these areas for the well-being of the American people, in particular the most vulnerable among us. “The Pope’s visit couldn’t come at a better time. The division and gridlock in Congress have reached a new high, and the fight for the Republican nomination for President is out of control – calling Latinos and immigrants rapists, criminals and anchor babies, and insulting LGBT Americans, Muslims, AAPI Americans and others. We are better than that. I hope the Pope’s visit, and his message of acceptance and love rings loud and clear, and that it touches the hearts of politicians across the country who are standing in the way of progress and demonizing any person they see at ‘other’ or ‘different’.”
09.21.2015	Phoenix, AZ – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about Rio Salado College’s new grant from the Department of Education’s, First in the World Development Program: “Since 1978 Rio Salado College has offered access to quality higher education to thousands of students in Arizona. With this new grant of $2,679,005, Rio Salado College will be able to do critical research for post-secondary reforms and test a new model that would improve teaching and learning for in need and high-risk students looking to get an Associate’s Degree or transfer to a 4 year university. “I want to thank Rio Salado College for their work, and congratulate them for receiving this grant. I look forward to the results of their research.”
09.16.2015	Phoenix, AZ - Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about the new grant from the Department of Labor’s YouthBuild program to the city of Phoenix, Department of Community and Economic Development: “Since 1992, Youthbuild grants have helped over 130,000 at-risk youth across the country gain access to opportunity, housing and economic mobility. “I want to congratulate the City of Phoenix for raising the 25% matching funds necessary to receive this grant. This $1.1 million dollar grant will go a long way in providing education and occupational training to Phoenix youth who dropped out of high school, who are coming out of the foster care system, and/or have been adjudicated. These young people are at a critical point in their lives, and the YouthBuild Program will help give them the resources they need in order to reach their full potential and contribute to their communities.”
09.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “An Iranian nuclear weapon would pose an unacceptable threat to the United States and our allies in the region, including Israel. Despite its flaws, I have concluded that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) represents the best—and only—credible means of halting Iran’s nuclear program and preventing the Iranian regime from obtaining a nuclear bomb. For this reason, and after considerable research and reflection, I will vote in support of the JCPOA later this week. “The most important question in evaluating the Iranian nuclear agreement is not whether a better deal could have been negotiated but what will happen if we in Congress choose to reject the deal before us. Based on my consultations with experts and diplomats from our key European allies, it is clear to me that if this agreement is blocked by Congress, the result will unquestionably be the collapse of the sanctions regime painstakingly assembled by the Obama administration. Foreign investment will pour into Iran and the Iranian leadership will gain both the benefits of sanctions relief and the freedom to resume its headlong pursuit of a nuclear weapon. In short, if Congress acts to reject this deal, I fear that the United States will lose all leverage short of military action to effectively deter Iran’s nuclear ambitions. “Instead of confronting Iran alone—isolated from the rest of the international community—the JCPOA will enable the United States to hold the Iranian regime accountable for any violation of the nuclear agreement with the support of a broad, committed international coalition. As a combat veteran of the Iraq War, I strongly believe we must not repeat the mistakes of the past by forsaking the hard work of coalition-building in favor of unilateral action. We cannot abandon the concrete gains that sanctions have achieved in favor of an uncertain course that risks another costly American military entanglement in this volatile region. “Crucially, I believe my vote for the JCOA is consistent with my record of staunch and unequivocal support for the Israeli people. An Iranian nuclear weapon would pose an existential threat to the State of Israel, and the deal before Congress constitutes the most viable means of preventing this dire scenario from coming to pass. The agreement will offer Israel over a decade of relief from the possibility of a nuclear Iran, allowing our ally to focus its resources on more immediate security threats, including ISIL and Hezbollah. By reining in an otherwise unmonitored and unrestrained Iranian nuclear program, we will be helping to ensure a safer and more secure future for both the American and Israeli peoples. “I want Arizonans to know that I did not come to this decision lightly. I carefully read the agreement, consulted with experts on both sides of this contentious debate and reviewed the classified assessments of our intelligence agencies. I also visited Israel and met with high-level officials in the Israeli government, including Prime Minister Netanyahu. Finally, I listened carefully to the views and concerns of my constituents. “After casting my vote in support of the Iranian nuclear deal, my sincere hope is that Congress will come together on a bipartisan basis to ensure that this landmark agreement is fully enforced and that Israel and our allies in the Gulf are equipped to confront the serious threats they continue to face in this dangerous region.”
08.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego and Congressman Tony Cárdenas sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of the Interior Sally Jewell, and the Acting Administrator for the General Services Administration Denise Roth, urging them to keep Donald Trump’s name from being prominently displayed at the new hotel in Washington D.C. at the site of the Old Post Office Building. Read the letter here. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “The federal government has a responsibility to keep emblems of racism and hatred out of public lands. In accordance with the Department of the Interior’s efforts to ban the Washington Redskins’ logo from public lands, we are calling on the Department of the Interior and GSA to keep Mr. Trump’s name from being prominently displayed at what is a historical federal building in the heart of our nation’s capital. “Given Mr. Trump’s insulting, hateful, and divisive comments about Latinos and women, the Trump name will forever be linked to anti-immigrant, anti-Latino, and anti-women sentiments. To prominently display Mr. Trump’s last name over the old post office building would send a message of exclusion and intolerance to millions of Latinos and women in the district and across the country.” Rep. Tony Cárdenas said, "Donald Trump's recent comments about women and immigrants range from incredible to shockingly disrespectful. The Trump name is now synonymous with hatred and discrimination, and it should not be the message displayed on public lands in a place of honor and history, across from the White House. Freedom of speech in our nation is treasured, but using that freedom to attack, denigrate and demean other human beings and cultures is not acceptable to the best nature of our people."
08.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald expressing his serious concern and indignation over a recent report which says that over 35,000 combat veterans – including hundreds in the Phoenix area- were erroneously denied health care as a result of a computer error. Read the letter here. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I am appalled and outraged by the news that over 35,000 combat veterans have been denied health care for years because of a computer glitch. “These men and women served our country; they fought for our freedom and safety; and when they arrived back home we denied them medical care - which they were promised, and rightfully earned through service, sacrifice and battle. “We had no problem finding them in the system when we sent them to battle. There is no reason why we should have had trouble finding them when they returned. This delay in care is unacceptable; it has serious consequences for the well-being of these veterans and I expect the VA to act swiftly and expedite the process to get these American heroes the care they need and deserve.”
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Equality Act - a comprehensive non-discrimination bill that would provide protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered individuals from discrimination in housing, work, jury service, credit, education, federal funding, and public accommodations. The equality Act was introduced today by Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) in the House and Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-OR) in the Senate. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “In 31 states across the nation, LGBT Americans don’t have protections from discrimination – meaning that they can be fired from their jobs, kicked out of their homes and even denied a loan because of their sexual orientation and/or gender identity. This is unacceptable, no person should suffer from discrimination because of who they are or who they love. “The Equality Act will provide LGBT Americans with the safety that all Americans in our nation enjoy, and it will bring stability to the lives of many by eliminating our current patchwork of laws. It is time for full LGBT equality and protections under the law.”
07.16.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Members of the Quiet Skies Caucus – Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-7), Rep. Steve Israel (NY-03), Rep. Grace Meng (NY-06), Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05), Rep. Katherine Clark (Mass-05), Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Rep. Tammy Duckworth (Ill-08), Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (Ill-09), Rep. Sam Farr (CA-20), Rep. Stephen Lynch (Mass-08), Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Rep. Alan Grayson (FL-09), and Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43) – sent a letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Rep. Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Rep. Peter DeFazio with recommendations for the 2015 Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act that would help address the harmful impacts of aircraft noise on communities across the country. The letter makes the following recommendations: Mandate a robust community engagement process, including pre-decisional public hearings, for new flight paths or procedures or changes to existing flight paths and procedures. Require FAA to use supplemental noise metrics when considering the impact of aviation noise on affected communities and lower the acceptable noise threshold for affected homes and businesses. Clarify that airport operators are legally allowed to implement—and should strongly consider—noise mitigation options in communities experiencing aircraft noise levels below the current noise threshold. Reform Section 213(c)(2) of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which allows FAA to short-circuit the environmental review process when implementing new flight paths. Mandate independent research on the health impacts of aviation noise. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) said, “I strongly encourage Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio to consider these recommendations. The FAA’s flight path changes in Phoenix resulted in serious harms to our communities and this issue must be addressed.” He added, “The FAA must do the appropriate community engagement and research before making changes that will affect the public, and these recommendations are a good first step to guarantee that they do so. This issue is not going away and without clear direction from Congress, the new flight paths being implemented through FAA’s NextGen program will continue to reduce the quality of life of communities throughout the country.” “Long Islanders and Queens residents know all too well the effects of airplane noise thundering above their homes and businesses. As they go through the process of reauthorizing the FAA, I urge Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio to work towards finding solutions for communities who are affected by airplane noise, and I believe implementing the recommendations in our letter would represent a substantive step forward towards improving the quality of life for our citizens,” said Rep. Steve Israel (NY-03). “My district in Queens, New York – and many other communities across the country – continue to suffer from the blistering sounds of airplanes, and that excessive noise is negatively impacting the quality of life in the neighborhoods we represent,” said Rep. Grace Meng (NY-06). “Many of the recommendations we outline in our request are measures that I ‘ve pushed for since I was elected to Congress, and incorporating our suggestions into this broad FAA bill would be the most effective legislative vehicle to address the problem of aircraft noise. Relief can’t come soon enough for those affected by the barrage of airplanes. I respectfully ask the committee to include our recommendations in the bill.” “My constituents back home in Chicago are facing unprecedented noise pollution that is eroding their quality of life, lowering their property values, and impacting their health,” said Rep. Quigley (IL-05). “I’ve been working hard to explore solutions to mitigate noise at the local level as well as at the national level with my colleagues in the Quiet Skies Caucus. The reauthorization of the FAA offers a unique opportunity to address airplane noise pollution, and I urge my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to incorporate new ways to mitigate noise for our constituents in upcoming FAA legislation.”
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego and Congresswoman Lacy Clay introduced a bill to prohibit the Confederate Battle Flag at cemeteries operated by the Department of VeteransAffairs (VA). The VA currently permits the display of the Confederate flag on Memorial Day as well as on Confederate Memorial Day on 131 facilities. Congressman Ruben Gallego said, “The confederate flag is a symbol of hate and intolerance, and it will forever be associated with the injustices of slavery and Jim Crow. It’s time for the Department of Veteran Affairs to change their policy allowing the Confederate Flag at cemeteries honoring American war heroes. He added, “The Confederate flag does not represent the values our veterans fought to defend. It is a painful reminder of a terrible time in our history when we treated human beings as less than. Our country needs to heal, and VA cemeteries should be a place of reflection, remembrance and tribute to those that embody the very best in our country.” Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri said, “The Confederate battle flag is a treasonous symbol of a war of insurrection instigated by white supremacists who made war on the United States to preserve the horrors of slavery and the cursed economic system that it fueled by subjugating and humiliating millions of African Americans for almost 300 years.” Mr. Clay added, “This bloody relic of racial terrorism, which was embraced last month by Dylann Roof as he gunned down nine innocent souls in prayer at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, SC, is the very same banner of hatred that has been proudly displayed by the Ku Klux Klan for 150 years. It has no place in any national cemetery administered by the Veterans Administration. Our bill would finally prohibit this highly offensive practice.”
06.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today the United States Supreme Court released their decision in the Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Arizona voters wisely chose to take redistricting out of the hands of the legislature to ensure the diverse communities and interests of our state were fairly represented in Congress. I’m glad the Supreme Court agreed with the wisdom of that decision and that Arizonans will continue to have the fair and competitive districts our voters deserve.”
06.26.2015	Washington, DC – Today the United States Supreme Court handed down a landmark decision in support of marriage equality. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I applaud the Supreme Court's decision in the Obergefell v. Hodges case. We can finally say that same sex marriage is the law of the land. It is truly a great day in America. Today we can stand tall and proud knowing that equality prevailed and discrimination can no longer hide behind the rule of law. “Today's Supreme Court ruling recognizes what we've known all along – that LGBT Americans like all Americans have the right to marry who they love and enjoy the protections that come with marriage.”
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today the United States Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “Republicans have been fighting the Affordable Care Act from day one and today for the second time the Supreme Court upheld the law and sided with millions of American families who thanks to the ACA have quality, affordable care. This decision ensures that no matter what state you live in, you have access to premium tax credits to afford dependable and quality care. “We’re past the time when insurance companies could deny coverage for pre-existing conditions, charge women more for care, or institute yearly and lifetime caps, and it’s clear that we’re not going back. It’s time for Republicans to stop attacks against the ACA and come to terms with the fact that the ACA is the law of the land, that it is working and giving coverage to over 16 million Americans, and that the American people support it. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to make any necessary fixes to the law so it can better work and benefit the American people.”
06.18.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Gallego released the following statement about the shooting at the Historic Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina: "I want to extend my condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims in the shooting at the historic Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Our country mourns today for the lives that were taken last night in such a despicable and heinous way. Our citizens should feel safe to attend church and live their day to day lives without fear." "I know nothing can take away the pain of losing a loved one - much less in this way - but I hope our thoughts and prayers bring some kind of comfort to those affected by this horrible tragedy. I commend the Department of Justice for opening a hate crime investigation and for putting the full weight of the Department behind making sure the person responsible for this act of violence faces justice.”
06.15.2015	Washington, DC – Hoy celebramos el tercer aniversario del Programa de acción diferida para soñadores, DACA. El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones: “Hoy celebramos el tercer aniversario de DACA, el cual hasta ahora le ha dado alivio de la deportación y permiso de trabajo a más de 640,000 DREAMers; sin contar las muchas personas que a diario califican para DACA y someten su aplicación. Se estima que los programas de acción diferida van a crecer nuestra economía por $230 mil millones durante los próximos 10 años, y que aumentarán el GDP de arizona por $6.2 mil millones. Los programas de acción diferida como DACA no solo ayudan a nuestras familias, sino también ayudan a la economía de nuestro país. “Mientras celebramos una victoria, no dejemos que se nos olvide que todavía hay mucho trabajo por delante: muchos en nuestra comunidad no califican para alivio de la deportación, la extensión de DACA y DAPA todavía están bajo ataque, y nuestra comunidad sigue sufriendo a diario. Tenemos mucho trabajo que hacer para lograr la implementación de la extensión de DACA y DAPA, y finalmente lograr la reforma migratoria que le dará alivio migratorio a las 11 millones de personas indocumentadas en este país. Esta batalla va para largo, pero no nos vamos a dar por vencidos. En este tercer aniversario de DACA celebremos, recarguemos nuestras energías y preparémonos para seguir luchando.”
06.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today marks the 3 year anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA). Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “Today we celebrate the 3rd anniversary of DACA, which has provided relief from deportation and work permits for over 664,000 DREAMers; and many more qualify and apply every day. It is estimated that the Deferred Action programs will grow our economy by $230 billion over 10 years – including a cumulative increase in Arizona’s GDP of $6.2 billion. Deferred Action programs like DACA are not just the right thing to do and the moral ting to do, but they are also in the best interest of our economy and our country. “As we celebrate one victory, let’s not forget that there’s still a lot of work ahead - many in our community don’t qualify for relief, extended DACA and DAPA are still under attack, and our community is still suffering on a daily basis. We have a lot of work to do to achieve implementation of extended DACA, DAPA and ultimate immigration reform that will give relief to the 11 million undocumented people in this country. This is a long battle, but we’re not giving up. So on DACA’s 3rd anniversary, let’s celebrate, recharge our energy and prepare to keep fighting..”
06.04.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Congressman Ruben Gallego along with Rep. David Schweikert and Rep. Kyrsten Sinema passed an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 THUD Appropriations Bill that prevents the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from moving forward with redesigning the regional airspace while serious issues resulting from last September’s changes to the flight paths at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport (PHX) remain unresolved. “Last September the FAA altered flight paths for aircrafts departing from Sky Harbor International Airport. The changes were made without meaningful input or consultation with community members or civic leaders in the Phoenix area, and have caused severe noise disruption for the citizens of Phoenix and lowered their quality of life,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. He added “This amendment will ensure that the FAA does not proceed with changes to the regional airspace until the issues in Phoenix are resolved. It will also set a precedent regarding aircraft noise and its impact on local communities, as the NextGen program moves forward across the nation.” “It is time the FAA works with local stakeholders in a meaningful manner, as equal partners, in order to mitigate the noise impact the new NextGen flight paths have caused on our communities,” Said Schweikert. “By preventing the FAA from moving forward with the Phoenix MetroPlex program, this amendment ensures that the FAA is responsive to the citizens of Arizona whose lives have been disrupted by the flight path changes implemented at Phoenix Sky Harbor.” Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema said, “The current flight path disrupts our communities. Phoenix families and businesses should be included in major decision-making impacting their neighborhoods and lives. Our amendment requires the FAA to work with affected communities on a redesign plan that works for all Arizonans." ##
06.03.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego participated in a press conference with Democratic Members of Congress - Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Senator Bernie Sanders, Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez, Congressman Raúl Grijalva and Congressman Keith Ellison among others – and allied organizations – CREDO, DailyKos, Moveon.org Civic Action, Democracy for America, Sierra Club, PCCC and others - to release over 2 million signatures urging the Obama administration and Congress to put the brakes on Fast Track and TPP. Congressman Gallego made the following remarks: Thank you to my colleagues who are here today, and to all of you who are working hard to push back against Fast Track and TPP. The American people – Democrats, Republicans and Independents alike are speaking loud and clear in opposition to Fast Track and TPP. Everywhere I go in my district I hear from people who are concerned about us adopting trade agreements that encourage American companies to go elsewhere and ship American jobs abroad. It doesn’t make sense for us to adopt trade agreements that stack the deck against American workers and empower foreign firms that don’t play by our same rules. Fast Track would reduce Congress’ authority to ensure the safety and security for American workers, and it would pave the way for a continuation of failed policies that led to offshore jobs and an influx of imported products created with incredibly low poverty-wages. The American manufacturing industry isn’t what it used to be. These policies have helped widen income inequality in our country, and it’s time we do something about it. American workers deserve better and it is our job to ensure that trade agreements meet the public’s interest and that they’re a good deal for the American people. I stand with American workers and against Fast Track and TPP. ##
06.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement in commemoration of LGBT Pride Month: “Our Declaration of Independence states that all Americans have the right to ‘life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ Unfortunately, despite the tremendous progress we have made over the past decade, LGBT Americans still suffer workplace discrimination, are often denied services, and in many places can’t marry the person they love. “This LGBT Pride Month, let’s celebrate the hard work and perseverance of our gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender brothers and sisters. Thanks to their tireless and resolute efforts, today 37 states and the District of Columbia allow same sex marriage, and the federal government has taken action to put in protections against workplace and housing discrimination. The road to full equality is not an easy one – we’ve come a long way but there’s still more to do. This June, let’s celebrate the hard earned victories and continue this cause so that LGBT Americans can live without fear and have the freedom to marry who they love.” ##
06.01.2015	Washington, DC – Today the City of Phoenix announced that it will sue the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) over the lack of action to change the disruptive flight paths out of Sky Harbor International Airport that have severely affected the lives of the citizens of Phoenix. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “It is outrageous that the FAA was not able to work with the City of Phoenix to find a solution to the noise resulting from the flight path changes out of Sky Harbor International Airport. The citizens of Phoenix have been dealing with this issue for months and they deserve swift action that restores their peace and quiet. “I support the City of Phoenix taking matters into their own hands in order to do what’s in the best interest of our communities. It is a shame that the City has to resort to legal action but we owe it to those affected to do everything in our power to better the situation and give them back their tranquility. We can’t just sit by while we wait for the FAA to finally do something to address the issue. The environmental, historical, and health costs on our city and our citizens are too high. “In the meantime, I will continue working to find a permanent, legislative solution to this issue.” ##
05.22.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: "On Memorial Day we remember and honor the men and women who gave their lives in the line of duty for our country and our freedom. These men and women fought to protect the promise of America, that every man and woman deserves 'life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.' "Memorial Day is a difficult day for those of us who have lost loved ones in battle. But we know that their service and sacrifice were not in vain. Their bravery inspires us, their leadership guides our way, and their legacy will always remain. "There is no way to repay our fallen soldiers or their families, but as we pay tribute to them let's recommit ourselves to giving our armed forces the best resources possible, to provide the best armor to keep them safe, to ensure that they receive the benefits they were promised, and have access to the health and mental care they need in order to return to civilian life." ##
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today marks the 50th Anniversary of the launch of Head Start. In these 50 years, Head Start has served over 30 million children and their families across the country – promoting school readiness of young children from low-income families, and providing services that are essential to children’s early development. Just in 2014, Head Start served close to 1 million people nationwide and over 7,000 people in Maricopa County alone. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Education is the most important thing we can provide our children in order to help them succeed. From early childhood education to college, affordable and accessible education is essential. “For 50 years, Head Start has helped provide equal access to quality education for our children and it is disappointing that many Republicans want to cut this program. Rather than cutting funding for Head Start, we should be investing in America’s children and helping set them up for success. “Let’s not jeopardize the future of America’s children. I call on my Republican colleagues to abandon their plan to cut funding for Head Start, and join us in working to close the education gap in America.” ##
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that would have locked in a 2.3% raise for our troops and guaranteed that our men and women in uniform get paid in the case of a government shutdown. The amendment failed 184-234 with Republican opposition. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “As Members of Congress it is our duty to honor the promises that we made to our men and women in uniform. I know what happens when Washington fails our troops on the battlefield and our veterans here at home. “My amendment was a common sense provision that would have given our troops more financial security – increasing their pay by 2.3% and guaranteeing that they would get paid in the case of a government shutdown. “Unfortunately, time and time again, Republicans show that they only care to fight for the wealthy, for corporations and special interests – while making struggling families pay the price and hanging them out to dry. “It is a real shame that Republicans can’t put aside their partisan politics for the well-being of the men and women who on a daily basis fight for our security and freedom. Shame on them.” ##
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – Today the House of Representatives voted to strip the “Enable DREAMers to Serve” amendment that passed in a bipartisan manner in the House Armed Services Committee and was added to the National Defense Authorization Act. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “This is clearly still Steve King’s Republican Party. There was no reason to have this fight; this amendment should not have been controversial. But Mr. Brooks and his band of extreme, anti-immigrant Republicans put their extreme politics ahead of the best interest of our military and our country. “DREAMers are talented and patriotic; they are Americans in every way except on paper, and our country would benefit from having them as part of our Armed Forces. The strength of our military isn’t just measured by the size of our arsenal or by the sophistication of our weapons but by the quality of our people. I would have been proud to serve beside these young men and women. “It is disappointing that Republicans continue to wage war on our immigrant communities instead of recognizing the many contributions they have made and can continue to make to our country.” ##
05.12.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday Congressman Ruben Gallego sent a letter to Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives John Boehner and to the Chairman of the House Rules Committee Pete Sessions urging them not to strike Rep. Gallego’s “Enable DREAMers to Serve in Uniform” amendment behind closed doors and without a fair up-or-down vote. The amendment, which passed in the House Armed Services Committee with a bipartisan majority, expresses that “It is the sense of the House of Representatives that the Secretary of Defense should review” the United States Code in order to determine the possibility of allowing DACA recipients into our Armed Forces. This week the House of Representatives will debate and vote on the National Defense Authorization Act which contains the “Enable DREAMers to Serve in Uniform” amendment. However, Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) and 24 Republicans sent a letter to the House Rules Committee asking them to strike the provision before the NDAA reaches the floor this week, something that could be accomplished without a separate vote by resorting to an obscure legislative procedure known as a “self-executing amendment.” Read the letter, here. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “It would be contrary to the spirit of the rules of the House for the House Rules Committee to strike this amendment behind closed doors, denying an open debate and vote on an amendment that passed with a bipartisan majority in the House Armed Services Committee. “This is not how Congress operates and it would be inappropriate for the House Rules Committee to overrule the will of a bipartisan majority of the committee of jurisdiction. The only reason why the House Rules Committee would strike the amendment in these back room dealings is a purely political one – to appease the fringe of the GOP and to try to control the deep divisions within their own party. “The House Armed Services Committee has a reputation of doing what’s in the best interest of our country regardless of political affiliations; Republican leadership and the House Rules Committee must respect the will of the Committee and allow an open debate and vote in order to strike the amendment from NDAA.” ##
05.07.2015	Phoenix, AZ – Today the Arizona Board of Regents announced that it will comply with Judge Arthur Anderson’s ruling and will allow DACA students who meet the residency requirements to pay in-state tuition at Arizona universities. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Access to in state-tuition will make a huge difference in the lives of DREAMers who want nothing more than to get a higher education degree and until now haven’t been able to do so because of tuition costs. “It is a great day for DREAMers and immigrant families in Arizona. I want to thank the Arizona Board of Regents for complying with the court ruling and approving in-state tuition for DACA recipients in our state and congratulate DREAMers in Arizona on a well-deserved victory.” ##
05.07.2015	Phoenix, AZ – Maricopa County Superior Court Judge Arthur Anderson ruled in favor of in-state tuition for DACA recipients in Arizona. In the ruling Judge Anderson states that “The circumstance under which a person enters the U.S. does not determine that person’s lawful presence here” and that DHS considers DACA recipients to be here legally. Judge Anderson states that, “the state cannot establish subcategories of ‘lawful presence,’ picking and choosing when it will consider DACA recipients lawfully present and when it will not.” Today Rep. Ruben Gallego sent a letter calling on the Arizona Board of Regents to move forward with in-state tuition for DACA Recipients. The Arizona Board of Regents is meeting this morning to discuss the recent court decision and will make a statement on the issue. You can read the letter, here. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “In his decision, Judge Anderson made clear that DREAMers who have lived and grown up in our state are entitled to the same in-state tuition as other Arizona residents. The Department of Homeland Security considers DACA recipients to be in the country legally and we cannot create ‘subcategories of lawful presence’ - to deny Arizona DREAMers in state-tuition would do just that by denying them access to the quality, affordable education that the rest of Arizona’s youth enjoys. “I urge the Arizona Board of Regents to affirm the rights of DACA students and give them access to in-state tuition. The decision stands on solid legal ground, and it’s the right moral and economic thing to do for these students, their families, and our state.” ##
05.06.2015	Washington, DC – Last night Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) released a letter from 25 Republicans asking the House Rules Committee to strike the amendment “Enable DREAMers to Serve in Uniform” from the NDAA language that will reach the House floor next week. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “On the same day that a judge in Arizona ruled in favor of in state tuition for dreamers, the extreme right of the Republican Party vowed to continue their attack against immigrant communities - including against talented, brave and patriotic dreamers who want to serve in our military and fight for our freedom and the values we hold dear. “A bipartisan group of members in the House Armed Services Committee passed this amendment and there is no reason to strike it from NDAA other than to appease the fringe of the GOP. In his decision about in-state tuition for DREAMers in Arizona, Judge Arthur Anderson made clear that the Department of Homeland Security considers DACA recipients to be in the country legally and that we cannot create ‘subcategories of lawful presence’. “This shouldn't be a controversial issue. The Secretary of Defense has the authority to deem what is in the national interest of the United States, and all we are asking is for him to consider allowing DACA recipients who meet the criteria and want to serve, into our military for that same reason. “Senator McCain last night said the Senate wouldn't include this language in their version of the NDAA because the House would never accept that language in the bill. Senator McCain should stick to his job in the Senate and let the House do our job. This amendment is about defense and what is in the best interest of our nation and our military. From his own service, Senator McCain knows that thousands of Americans have served this country while working to attain citizenship. What matters is the quality and commitment of the people you serve with, not their immigration status.” ##
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego introduced the “Enable DREAMers to Serve in Uniform” amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment urges the Secretary of Defense to consider allowing DACA-eligible individuals to serve in the military. DACA already grants work permits but doesn’t allow DREAMers to join our Armed Forces. Please see Congressman Gallego's prepared remarks below: Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you about a young man from my district named Jose. Growing up in Phoenix, Arizona, Jose loved war movies and dreamed of one day becoming a Navy SEAL. In high school, Jose met a Navy recruiter and told him about his ambition to fight for our country in uniform. Then he told the recruiter something else—something which has prevented Jose from realizing his dream to this day. He told the recruiter about his undocumented immigration status. Years later, Jose still hasn’t given up. ““I want to serve my country,” he says, “to show how grateful I am for all it has provided me.” That’s why I’m offering this amendment – to enable brave, talented young people like Jose to give back to the country they love by serving in our Armed Forces. My amendment is very straightforward. It would simply encourage the Secretary of Defense to consider allowing individuals to serve in the military who have been granted Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or DACA by the Department of Homeland Security. The strength of our military isn’t just measured by the size our arsenal or by the sophistication of our weapons but by the quality of our people. Our military needs the best soldiers, marines and airmen it can get. We shouldn’t let our broken immigration system stand in the way of our military’s recruitment goals. By statute, the Secretary can authorize the enlistment of non-citizens when it is “vital to the national interest.” And enabling the best and brightest in our nation to serve in uniform, including DREAMers, is clearly “vital to the national interest.” Mr. Chairman, these young people are Americans in every respect except on paper. I fought in Iraq and I know that on the battlefield what matters isn’t whether you have the right papers, it’s whether you have the right skills and the right character. Let’s set politics aside and do what’s right for America and for the patriotic young people known as the DREAMers who want nothing more than to serve our nation in uniform. Thank you.
04.27.2015	Phoenix, AZ – The winners of Arizona’s 7th District Congressional Art Competition are: 1st place: Daniel Chavez Santa Cruz from South Mountain High School with the piece “Phoenix Rising” 2nd place: Cassandra Burke from Apollo High School with the piece “The Flower Girl” 3rd place: Kevin Craig from South Mountain High School with the piece “We are all the Same” Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I want to thank everyone who submitted artwork for Arizona’s 7th District Congressional Art Competition and congratulate Daniel, Cassandra and Kevin – our 1st, 2nd and 3rd place winners. “Art takes talent, discipline and creativity, and it is great to see so many young artists in our district. I look forward to having Daniel’s piece ‘Phoenix Rising’ represent Arizona’s 7th district in D.C. and in the national Congressional Art Competition.”
04.21.2015	Washington, DC –Yesterday the Arizona Board of Regents announced that they are considering a proposal that would give slightly lower tuition – 150% of in-state tuition - to DREAMers who graduate from Arizona high schools and who have received Deferred Action. Today Congressman Ruben Gallego sent a letter to the Arizona Board of Regents urging them to support in-state tuition for DACA recipients. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “The Arizona Board of Regents’ proposal to give lower tuition to DACA recipients is a good step forward, however it doesn’t go far enough in ensuring that DREAMers – who have lived, been educated and grown up in our state – have access to the same tuition rates and opportunities as their Arizonan counterparts. For many young people this will make the difference between being able to attend college or not. “Having an educated youth is good for Arizona’s economy and for our businesses looking to hire young, talented people to remain competitive. I urge the Arizona Board of Regents to follow the lead of the Maricopa County Community Colleges and reconsider giving DREAMers in-state tuition.” Read the letter, here. ##
04.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans is hearing oral arguments on whether to grant a stay on the injunction that is preventing DACA and DAPA from going into effect. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement calling on the Courts to lift the injunction on President Obama’s Immigration Executive Action: “From the very beginning it was obvious that this lawsuit was nothing but a political stunt, and we all know that the State Attorney Generals picked Judge Hanen's court because of his past anti-immigration views. “The fact is that President Obama has the authority to determine how to best use our resources and determine priorities when it comes to our immigration laws. That is exactly what the President did when he announced DACA and DAPA, and I call on the courts to stand behind the President’s authority and the millions of families who will benefit from these deferred action programs going into effect. “I will continue working with the tireless advocates who are fighting to protect DACA and DAPA. One need only look at the streets of New Orleans today to see that our community is strong and full of energy. I know that we will win. “To my Republican colleagues I say, enough is enough, it’s time to stop playing political games with the lives of millions of immigrants. Rather than smoke and mirrors, come to the table and do your job so that we can reform our immigration laws. ##
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – El día de la igualdad salarial marca la fecha en que el salario de las mujeres finalmente alcanza la cantidad que los hombres ganaron el año previo. En el día de la igualdad salarial, el Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones: “Las mujeres representan alrededor de la mitad de nuestra fuerza laboral y se están convirtiendo cada vez más en las principales fuentes de ingresos en hogares alrededor del país. Sin embargo, en Arizona las mujeres todavía ganan 84 centavos por cada dólar que gana un hombre, y a nivel nacional las mujeres ganan 78 centavos por dólar que gana un hombre. Esta diferencia en salario es todavía más grande para las mujeres latinas y afro americanas. “La discriminación salarial tiene consecuencias reales para las familias que dependen de los salarios de las mujeres para comprar comida, pagar por cuidado para sus niños, renta y otras necesidades. En marzo me uní a la Congresista Rosa DeLauro y a otros colegas para reintroducir el “Paycheck Fairness Act.” Hoy quiero hacer un llamado a mis colegas republicanos para que permitan discusión sobre este tema y pasen el “Paycheck Fairness Act” para asegurar la igualdad salarial y asegurar que las mujeres trabajadoras sean compensadas de una manera justa.” ##
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – Equal Pay Day marks the day into the year when women’s wages would finally catch up to the amount that men were paid in the previous year. On Equal Pay Day, Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement calling for the passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act: “Women make up about half of our workforce and they are increasingly becoming the breadwinners in millions of homes across America. Yet, in Arizona women still make 84 cents for every dollar a man makes, and nationwide women make 78 cents for every dollar earned by men. The wage gap is even larger for women of color. “Pay discrimination has real life consequences for families who rely on women’s wages to pay for groceries, child care, rent and other necessities. In March, I joined Rep. DeLauro and others in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act. I call on my Republican colleagues to bring up and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act to ensure true pay equity and ensure that hardworking women are compensated fairly.” ##
04.10.2015	Phoenix, Arizona – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about the passing of former Arizona Governor Raul Castro: “Governor Raul Castro devoted his entire life to public service. Throughout his career as Ambassador and Governor, he inspired Hispanics to get involved and participate in our democracy. "Governor Castro was the first Mexican American Governor and he paved the way for a new generation of politically active Latinos and immigrants who followed in his footsteps. Governor Castro played an important role in the history of Arizona and of the Latino rights movement. "My condolences go out to his family and friends. As we mourn Governor Castro’s passing, we celebrate his life, leadership and legacy.” ##
04.06.2015	La acción ejecutiva del Presidente Obama es consistente con más de 50 años de precedente legal. El Presidente tiene la autoridad de hacer cambios para determinar la mejor manera de utilizar nuestros recursos para hacer cumplir nuestras leyes migratorias. Los nuevos programas de acción diferida proveerán seguridad para millones de personas que están viviendo en las sombras, ayudarán a mejorar nuestra economía y a mantener familias unidas. Obama tiene la autoridad legal para tomar estas acciones y estoy seguro que los republicanos van a fallar en sus intentos de debilitar esa autoridad. ##
04.06.2015	President Obama’s Executive Action is in line with more than 50 years of precedent in determining how to best use resources to enforce our immigration laws. The new Deferred Action Programs will provide much needed security to millions of people who are currently living in the shadows, boost our economy and keep families together. Obama has the legal authority to take such action and I remain confident that Republicans’ attempts to undermine that authority will be unsuccessful. ##
04.02.2015	Phoenix, AZ – Congressman Ruben Gallego, Congressman Raul Grijalva, Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema, Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick and Congressman David Schweikert sent a letter to Michael Huerta, Administrator for the Federal Aviation Administration asking for a quick resolution to the disruption caused by acute levels of aircraft noise resulting from flight path changes at the Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport as part of the national Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) Initiative. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “The aircraft noise resulting from the flight path changes at Sky Harbor International Airport has caused severe disruptions to the lives of citizens of the greater Phoenix Metropolitan area. “It in unconscionable that the FAA would make this decision without doing appropriate outreach to the community affected, that is why in a statement accompanying the FY 2015 Omnibus, Congress recognized the negative impact on Phoenix residents and asked the FAA to act quickly to find ‘mitigation measures.’ “The citizens of Phoenix cannot keep waiting for a resolution. The FAA has had plenty of time to come up with a solution and I urge them to act quickly to implement Congress’ directive. The citizens of Phoenix, the Arizona State Historic Preservation Office, and Congress have all spoken and asked for swift action, it’s time for them to take the necessary steps to fix this problem and restore peace and quiet to the greater Phoenix Metropolitan area.” Read the letter here ##
03.31.2015	Phoenix, AZ – On March 31st we celebrate César Chávez’ Day. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Today we celebrate the life and teachings of César Chávez, a civil rights leader whose work changed the lives of millions and continues to make an impact today. “César Chávez is an inspiration and an example to follow. He knew that change takes courage, hard work, and sacrifice. And that the fight for social justice and equality is always a fight worth having.” “Chávez’ fight for a better environment and living wage for farmworkers started the movement for social justice and equality for Latinos in the United States. And today, his spirit is alive and well across the country: in the picket lines, in fasting, in protests but also in service. Today we celebrate his legacy and life, and recommit ourselves to continuing his work.”
03.31.2015	Phoenix, AZ – El 31 de marzo celebramos el día de César Chávez. El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones: “Hoy celebramos la vida y las enseñanzas de César Chávez, un gran hombre y líder de derechos civiles que cambió la vida de millones de personas y que continúa teniendo un impacto el día de hoy. “César Chávez es una inspiración y un ejemplo a seguir. Él sabía que el cambio toma coraje, sacrificio y mucho trabajo, y que la lucha por la justicia y la igualdad siempre vale la pena. “La lucha de César Chávez por un mejor ambiente y salario para los trabajadores campesinos fue el comienzo del movimiento por la justicia y la igualdad para los latinos en los Estados Unidos. Y hoy, el espíritu de César Chávez sigue vivo alrededor del país: en las protestas, en el ayuno, pero también en el servicio. Hoy celebramos su vida y su legado, y nos comprometemos a continuar su labor.”
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The day after the City of Phoenix passed an equal pay ordinance, Rep. Ruben Gallego joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) today in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act - legislation which would help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs. On average, women make just 78 cents for every dollar a man makes. This pay disparity is even more striking for African American women who on average make 64 cents for every dollar a white non-Hispanic man makes and Latinas who on average make 56 cents for every dollar a white non-Hispanic man makes. “I’m proud to join Congresswoman DeLauro in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act. Yesterday, the City of Phoenix City Council voted unanimously to pass an equal pay ordinance and address the wage gap in our city. The pay gap between women and men in Arizona is 16 cents for every dollar and it has real life implications for women working hard to ensure the American dream for their families,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. He added, “Until the federal government takes action, cities across our country are taking matters into their own hands and doing what they can to ensure equal pay for equal work. It’s time for Congress to step up and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act. This is a no brainer that will help ensure the Equal Pay Act achieves its objective - guaranteeing that women who are working hard to move ahead are fairly compensated for their hard work and paid the same as men in the workforce doing the same job.”
03.24.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ruben Gallego introduced his first piece of legislation – the Veterans Education Tax Security Act (VETS Act). The VETS Act, introduced with Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT), will ensure that disabled veterans, deceased veterans and deceased members of the Armed Forces are not financially penalized when their federal student loans are lawfully discharged. Currently, veterans who are totally and permanently disabled can get their federal student loan debt discharged. Unfortunately the Department of Education reports any discharged debt over $600 to the IRS where it is considered as income for federal and possible state tax purposes. “In many instances student loan forgiveness puts disabled veterans and their families in substantial unfair tax liability,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). He added, “Veterans and our men and women in uniform put everything on the line to defend our country. We should stand behind them and their families during difficult times and help safeguard them from such an unfair and unexpected financial situation.” The VETS Act would exclude federal discharged loans from gross income when a veteran is totally and permanently disabled, or deceased; for any deceased Member of our Armed Forces; and in certain circumstances for the parents who took out student loans on behalf of a deceased member of the Armed Forces. Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT) said, “Our veterans have already given everything they have to support and defend our nation—some of them sacrificing life and limb. It’s our duty to honor and support them when they return home. Veterans suffer higher unemployment than their civilian counterparts, and many are forced into low-paying jobs when they return, despite their education or specialized training, making it more difficult to make a living. I am proud to join Congressman Gallego in introducing the VETS Act because it closes the loophole that punishes disabled veterans for loan forgiveness and makes it easier for them to make a living when they return home from the battlefield.”
03.23.2015	Washington, DC – Today marks the 5th anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act more than 16 million Americans have access to affordable and quality health insurance and our country’s uninsured rate is at its lowest level ever recorded. “In Arizona over 205,000 people selected or re-enrolled in health care through the marketplace; over 2 million Arizonans, including 769,000 women and 570,000 children, don’t have to worry about lifetime coverage limits; and 1,486,000 people gained preventive service coverage with no cost-sharing. “There is no doubt that the Affordable Care Act is working. While Republicans continue their never ending fight to get rid of Obamacare no matter the cost – voting 56 times to repeal the ACA and even shutting down the government - Democrats will continue fighting to increase access to affordable, quality health care for all Americans. The American people are living the benefits of the Affordable Care Act and we will continue working to ensure that these benefits are not taken away.” ##
03.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego, Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick and Congressman Raul Grijalva sent a letter to CMS administrator Andy Slavitt asking him to reject Arizona’s waiver request that would allow the state’s Medicaid program to tighten eligibility rules. The proposal would add employment requirements and a cap on the length of time a person can receive Medicaid through Arizona’s expansion program - resulting in approximately 500,000 Arizonans losing access to care, including over 250,000 children. “It’s reprehensible that instead of working to expand access to health care for Arizonans in need, Governor Ducey made a politically motivated move that will make it more difficult for low income families and veterans to qualify for Medicaid. These changes will result in hundreds of thousands of people losing their coverage, and it will increase the cost of uncompensated care.” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. He added, “These changes go against the goals and protections of the Affordable Care Act and I trust that CMS will reject the waiver request.” Congressman Raul Grijalva said, "There is no excuse for trying to deny the most vulnerable in our society the dignity and security of health coverage. This political stunt by the GOP to continue undermining the Affordable Care Act puts hundreds of thousands of Arizonans at risk and the taxpayers at large back on the tab to cover emergency costs for the uninsured. Governor Brewer learned the lesson the hard way when her Medicaid cuts wreaked havoc on the state economy, it is time we learn from past mistakes instead of repeating them. It’s an abject failure of leadership from elected officials in our state to once again ignore federal laws in an attempt to take away health care from deserving Arizonans." "Medicaid expansion has played a vital role in providing thousands of folks in my district with the resources they need to stay healthy, go to work, and improve our communities," said Rep. Kirkpatrick. "I urge CMS to protect this program for Arizonans who are especially vulnerable without it." Health care providers across the state agree that granting the waiver request and making the proposed changes to Medicaid expansion would cause great harm to low income Arizonans in need of care, including children and veterans. Kurt Sheppard, President & CEO, Valle del Sol said, “At Valle del Sol, we recognize that low-income Arizonans face great health disparities in areas such as behavioral health and chronic disease management. They also require a higher degree of coordination of care. We’re mindful of the need to maintain continuity and continued care for patients. We’re concerned for these individuals who may be left with no care or that may seek higher levels of care at a greater cost.” Read the letter, here. ##
03.06.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ruben Gallego, Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick and Congressman Raul Grijalva sent a letter to Attorney General Mark Brnovich urging him to drop the lawsuit and stop any future action against the Maricopa County Community College District for granting in-state tuition to DACA recipients. “This lawsuit is nothing but another frivolous political attack against our immigrant community and a waste of our tax dollars. The federal government made clear that DACA recipients are considered lawfully present in our country and therefore qualify for in-state tuition under MDCCC policy,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. He added, “Republicans in Arizona have reached a new low trying to take away affordable higher education from young people who grew up in our state, pay taxes, and just want to learn and give back to Arizona. I urge Attorney General Brnovich to stop using our state resources for political purposes, drop this lawsuit and stop any future actions to deny in-state tuition to DACA recipients.” “As a former prosecutor, I am disappointed that the state of Arizona is taking legal actions that hurt young people whose only crime is seeking an education. Pricing these kids out of a basic education will make it even harder for them to get good jobs, contribute to our economy and build a stronger future. The American dream should be available to every child who calls our country home,” said Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick. Rep. Raul Grijalva said, “The people of Arizona deserve more for their tax dollars than this ideological attack on students who simply want to learn and contribute to the only nation they’ve known as home. MCCCD is well within state and federal laws in allowing DACA beneficiaries to be considered for in-state tuition rates. The fact that our former Attorney General would squander tax money on litigation against MCCCD over this was bad enough. Seeing our new Attorney General pick up where the last left off is flat out shameful.” View the letter, here ##
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – El Congresista Ruben Gallego hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el voto para financiar el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS por sus siglas en inglés): “Espero que los republicanos hayan aprendido su lección. Nunca debemos de jugar con la seguridad de nuestra nación o el bienestar de nuestro país. El pueblo Estadounidense nos eligió para tomar decisiones que beneficien a nuestro país, no para ponerlo en riesgo. El pueblo Estadounidense no merece este tipo de acciones por parte de sus oficiales electos. “Aplaudo la decisión de los republicanos de finalmente ayudarnos a pasar un financiamiento limpio para el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional que provee los fondos y la certeza necesaria para que los empleados del departamento puedan hacer su trabajo y mantener al pueblo Estadounidense seguro. “En lugar de mantener el financiamiento del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS por sus siglas en inglés) rehén por las acciones ejecutivas del Presidente Obama, los republicanos deberían de trabajar con nosotros para aprobar una reforma migratoria que beneficie a nuestro país y que mantenga nuestras familias unidas. Esa es la solución definitiva para reformar nuestro sistema migratorio a largo plazo.” ##
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about today’s vote to fund the Department of Homeland Security: "I hope Republicans learned their lesson, we should never play games with our national security or with the well-being of our country. There is too much at risk and the American people deserve better. “I commend Republicans for finally joining us in passing a clean DHS funding bill that provides appropriate level of funding and certainty for DHS employees to do their job and keep the American people safe. “Rather than keeping government funding hostage over the President’s executive actions, Republicans should work with us to pass immigration reform that is good for our economy and keeps families together. That is the ultimate long term solution for how to deal with an immigration system that badly needs to be overhauled.” ##
03.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement commemorating Women’s History Month: “During the month of March we celebrate Women’s History Month and the endless contributions of women to our country throughout history and today. “As we celebrate how far we’ve come in ensuring equal rights for women in the United States, we can’t forget the sacrifices and challenges that women still face in our country today - including the ongoing battle for equal pay and the fight for women’s access to healthcare. “Currently, women make up almost half of America’s workforce and are increasingly the breadwinners in households across the country. But women still make only 77 cents to every dollar a man working in the same job does — with African American women make 64 cents and Latinas make 56 to every dollar earned by a Caucasian man in the same job. And many still believe that government has the right to interfere in a woman’s healthcare decisions. “The fight for equal rights in the United States isn’t over. This March let’s celebrate women’s contributions and accomplishments – from the women’s suffrage movement to the heroic work of women in our military, in business, education, technology and public service – and let’s reflect on the work that is still ahead of us. We are forever indebted to women who fought and paved the way, and we must continue working to achieve full equality for women at home and in the workplace.”
02.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Gallego voted to stop the Republican shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security. DHS is set to run out of funds on February 28th putting our country in danger and leaving thousands of DHS employees – law enforcement officials, border patrol agents, disaster response officials, counter terrorism experts, and others - furloughed or working without pay. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “There are three days left until DHS shuts down and there are enough votes to pass a clean DHS funding bill this afternoon. But, instead of listening to members of their own party in the Senate and joining Democrats to avoid this crisis, House Republicans today for the 3rd time voted unanimously to block consideration of a clean DHS funding bill. “Democrats voted to end this manufactured crisis. Unfortunately, House Republicans would rather play political games and hold our national security hostage than come to the table and govern in a responsible manner. The American people deserve better, and it’s time for Republicans to end these dangerous games. The clock is ticking.” ##
02.24.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego joined the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus as a Vice-Chair for the 114th Congress. “Congressman Ruben Gallego is new to Congress this year, but he is not new to championing lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender equality,” said JoDee Winterhof, Vice President for Policy and Political Affairs at the Human Rights Campaign. “In Arizona Ruben Gallego fought against the anti-marriage constitutional amendment and to defeat the harmful SB 1062. As a new Vice-Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, we look forward to working with him on advancing non-discrimination protections, equal benefits, anti-bullying protections and other equality measures.” "Congressman Gallego has been a champion of LGBT issues for many years. He understands that celebrating and respecting diversity uplifts our entire community, and improves the quality of life for everyone. We sincerely appreciate his support and continued efforts to promote inclusion and equality," said Angela Hughey, President and co-founder of ONE Community in Arizona. Congressman Gallego released the following statement: “I am proud to join the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus as one of the new vice-chairs. LGBT people deserve equal rights and protections and I am committed to continuing to work for that goal. “Since it was established in 2008, the LGBT Equality Caucus Members have been leaders in advancing issues important to the LGTB Community and I look forward to continuing that work while bringing a diverse perspective as we fight for issues that affect LGBT Americans.” ##
02.19.2015	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Ruben Gallego and Rep. Pete Aguilar released a letter to Speaker John Boehner, urging him to bring a clean Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill to the House floor for a vote. The letter - which explains that the current DHS funding bill with anti-immigrant riders will not be approved by the Senate or signed into law by President Obama - was signed by 119 Members of Congress. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “Rep. Roybal-Allard and Rep. Lowey have introduced a clean DHS funding bill that we could vote on immediately and end this manufactured crisis. The American people elected us solve problems and to do what is in their best interest - they deserve better.” He added, “Republicans created this unnecessary crisis; it's time for them to act like responsible adults and for Speaker Boehner to bring up a clean funding bill so we can ensure the safety and security of our country and of the American people.” “A little over a year ago, the House majority chose party politics over the American people and cost our nation $24 billion during the 2013 shutdown, and now, they want to gamble the national security of the United States just so they can earn political points. I urge Speaker Boehner to immediately bring a clean Homeland Security funding bill to a vote so we can end this stand-off and focus on serving the American people,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. You can find a copy of the letter, here.
02.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego signed up as a co-sponsor to H.R. 861 – a clean DHS funding bill introduced by Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard and Congresswoman Nita Lowey. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “I am happy to join Congresswoman Roybal-Allard and Congresswoman Nita Lowey in supporting a clean DHS funding bill that doesn’t include anti-immigrant poison pills. “There are 17 days left until DHS runs out of funds putting our national security at risk. This is no time to play with our country’s safety, the American people elected us to work on their behalf and the safety of our country should not be a partisan or political issue. “For the well-being of our country, of the American people, and of the thousands of Border Patrol and TSA agents who on February 27th would have to work without pay, I urge Speaker Boehner to bring up H.R. 861 and stop playing games with our security.” ##
02.11.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement about the President’s AUMF Proposal: "President Obama submitted a serious proposal that takes us a step closer to defeating ISIS and keeping America safe. I appreciate President Obama's recognition of Congress' constitutionally-guaranteed role in shaping our national security policies. “As a U.S. Marine veteran, I fought to clear areas in Iraq that are in fact now held by ISIS unfortunately. ISIS is a threat to the United States and our allies in the region, and must be defeated. “I am pleased to see that the President’s proposed AUMF includes a sunset provision and repeals 2002 authorization. Congress should carefully review the provisions regarding the use of ground troops. I believe the United States should support our allies in the region, but limit the scope of our involvement on the ground. "I thank the President for his proposal, and I am glad this authorization will receive a full debate.” ##
02.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement in regards to Kayla Mueller’s Death: “Kayla was a kind and compassionate young woman who devoted her life to helping people in need in Arizona and around the world. She was a beam of light and hope to those that knew her and everyone whose life she touched. Although Kayla is no longer with us, she left a mark in this world and her example of service, love and faith lives on. “As we mourn Kayla’s death we strengthen our commitment to fight against ISIS and bring those responsible for her death to justice. “My thoughts and prayers are with Kayla’s family and friends as they grieve this tremendous loss.” ##
02.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement in regards to Kayla Mueller, a young Arizonan held captive by ISIS: “Kayla Mueller is a young woman from Arizona who has devoted her career to helping people in need and serving others around the world. Over a year ago Kayla was helping refugee families in Syria who were forced to leave their home when she was taken captive by ISIS. “While we have no more information about Kayla’s situation, our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends.” ##
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – Today the Senate voted down a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which contains several anti-immigrant amendments that would roll back the President’s Executive Orders to provide Deferred Action and protect DREAMers and parents of U.S. citizen children from deportation. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “We all knew this bill wouldn’t go anywhere. The Senate didn’t have the 60 votes to pass it, and the President made it clear that even if it passed, he would veto it. Instead of doing their job and actually governing, Republicans insist on wasting time and taxpayer money holding political show votes that do nothing to move our country forward.” ##
02.02.2015	Washintgon, DC – Following is a statement from Congressman Ruben Gallego in celebration of African American History Month: “During the month of February we celebrate African American History month and the many contributions and accomplishments of African Americans in the United States. “As we celebrate our African American brothers and sisters we must also reflect on the many lessons from the civil rights movement, and the continuous fight for equal rights in the United States - We must work to ensure that all children feel safe and valued, that young people have equal opportunities and access to the resources and tools they need to be successful; and we must continue protecting the right to vote for all Americans. “February is a month of celebration but also a month to reflect on how far we have come and how work much is still left to do in the pursuit of justice and equality. I look forward to continuing to work alongside African American leaders and pastors in Arizona in the fight for social justice.” ##
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement on the President’s 2016 Budget Proposal: “The budget proposal that President Obama laid out guarantees that more Americans can participate in our economic recovery – it’ll help grow workers’ pay, expand child care, provide tax relief for the middle class and access to the education and training that American workers need to earn higher wages. It also provides additional funds to expand access, quality of care and benefits that veterans and our families receive. "By cutting inefficient spending, eliminating special interest tax-breaks and trust fund loop holes, and passing immigration reform, we can reverse harmful sequestration cuts and invest in research, education, training and infrastructure needed for sustainable economic growth. "It’s time for Republicans to stop with their political games and do the job the American people elected us to do. I urge my Republican colleagues to join Democrats in supporting a budget that prioritizes investing in the middle class, that promotes sustainable economic growth and reduces the deficit by $1.8 trillion.” ##
01.28.2015	Washington, DC – Following a meeting with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) last week concerning noise caused by the flight path changes in and out of Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport, Rep. Ruben Gallego today joined the Quiet Skies Caucus to bring attention to the issue of aircraft noise and its negative effects. Rep. Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Aircraft noise is increasingly becoming a problem in cities across the country - including my city of Phoenix, Arizona. The FAA flight path changes in and out of Sky Harbor Airport created significant levels of noise pollution - disrupting the day-to-day lives of thousands of people and their ability to live and rest peacefully within their own home. Members of my community are rightfully outraged,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego “I’m happy to join the Quiet Skies Caucus to discuss possible solutions to this important issue and work to restore tranquility and peace of mind to the people of Phoenix.” ##
01.27.2015	Washington, DC – Today Speaker Boehner told the Republican caucus that he is exploring the best options to sue President Obama over the President’s Executive Action on immigration. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “In 32 days the Department of Homeland Security will shut down thanks to Republicans’ anti-immigrant political gamesmanship and inability to govern. Instead of doing their job and working to pass a bill that addresses our immigration system once and for all, Republicans are trying to one up themselves to prove to the extreme wing of their party just how anti-immigrant they are. “If they really cared about fixing the problem and were serious about getting rid of the President’s Executive Action on immigration they’d bring up a bill. If there was any question about their intentions and motivation, the DHS funding bill, the McCaull border insecurity bill, and this lawsuit should make it clear that it’s all about anti-immigrant politics. “Republicans need to stop with these games - they made their point - now it’s time to get to work. We need comprehensive immigration reform that will grow our economy, keep our families together, and honor our American values.” ##
01.26.2015	PHOENIX, AZ – The top official for the Federal Aviation Administration will reconvene the group that recommended recent changes to the flight paths of air traffic in and out of Sky Harbor International Airport after a meeting this week with U.S. Rep. Ruben Gallego and Mayor Greg Stanton. The Performance Based Navigation Group will seek a new departure path that mitigates disruption to Phoenix’s residential neighborhoods. When the group reconvenes in February, though, FAA Administrator Michael Huerta said it will include Stanton or a representative from his office. Gallego and Stanton met with Huerta and FAA officials in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday. The two, along with the Phoenix City Council and local residents, have pushed the FAA to make changes to the new route. “I appreciate administrator Michael Huerta taking the time to meet with us to discuss the serious noise problems caused by the flight path rerouting at the Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego. He added, “with the help of this working group we will continue looking for ways to address the problem and restore much needed and deserved peace and quiet to the citizens of Phoenix." Changes to the Sky Harbor flight path were made as a part of the FAA’s NextGen program. Stanton said that although he supports NextGen’s goals, flight path changes should be made through a process that includes local input – especially when it negatively impacts residents and neighborhoods. “I am encouraged that the FAA will begin the process to change the path that is disruptive to Phoenix neighborhoods,” said Stanton. “I’ll continue to push this issue and pressure the FAA to do what’s right until we have a solution that works for our residents.” ##
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – On the anniversary of the Supreme Court decision on Roe v. Wade, Republicans are again attacking women’s access to healthcare. Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement: “Republicans have no shame. Since they couldn’t get enough support for one anti-woman bill they rushed another deceptive and radical bill to the floor. “Republicans claim to be the party of limited government but they insist that government should have a role in women’s healthcare decisions, dictate women’s choices and limit women’s options. “Once again Republicans are catering to the Tea Party’s demands to go after women’s healthcare. Instead of working to create jobs or fund DHS, Republicans are wasting time trying to pass a bill that the President already said he will veto - that would result in millions of women losing access to comprehensive health coverage, would place a higher financial burden on Americans, and place restrictions on how women with private insurance can spend their own private dollars in purchasing health insurance. “The American people want Congress to work together to pass reforms that will make their lives better. This is nothing but another cynical attempt by the GOP to score cheap political points while wasting time we could be using to pass reforms to grow our middle class, make college more affordable, and provide more and better opportunities for the American people.”
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) today released a letter calling for greater congressional involvement to turnaround U.S. trade policies that have resulted in large, chronic trade deficits, the net loss of more than 5 million U.S. manufacturing jobs, flat median wages despite significant productivity gains and the highest levels of income inequality since the 1920s. Gallego, joined by eight other freshman lawmakers, called for a new approach to U.S. trade negotiations that would create pacts promoting Middle Class job creation. They announced that they would not give up their constitutional authority to oversee foreign trade agreements. “We are all deeply committed to creating jobs in our communities and across the country, to providing access to affordable healthcare and medicines and to promoting a healthy environment,” the members wrote. “To do so effectively, we believe it is critical that Congress maintains its authority to ensure American trade agreements are a good deal for the American people.” Since the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), U.S. trade pacts have followed a model that would be replicated and expanded on in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). U.S. trade deficits have grown more than 440% with countries with which such fast-tracked free trade agreements (FTA) were implemented, but declined 16% with non-FTA countries. U.S. export growth to countries that are not FTA partners has exceeded U.S. export growth to FTA partners by 30 percent over the past decade. Nearly 5 million U.S. manufacturing jobs — one in four — were lost since the Fast Tracking of NAFTA and various NAFTA-expansion deals. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, three of every five manufacturing workers who lose jobs to trade and find reemployment take pay cuts, with one in three losing greater than 20 percent. Overall, U.S. wages have barely increased in real terms since 1974 — the year Fast Track was first enacted — while U.S. worker productivity has doubled. Study after study has revealed an academic consensus that status quo trade has contributed to the unprecedented rise in income inequality. Unfortunately, the most recent U.S. trade deal with Korea in 2011 has hurt, not helped, U.S. jobs and exports. In just the first two years of this Fast Tracked pact, which was used as the template for the TPP, the U.S. trade deficit with Korea grew 50 percent — which equates to 50,000 more American jobs lost to bad trade policy. Trade data just released by the Census Bureau shows the problem is getting worse: The U.S. had a $2.8 billion monthly trade deficit with Korea in November, the highest monthly U.S. goods trade deficit with Korea on record. And, after this deal went into effect, U.S. small businesses’ exports to Korea declined sharply, falling 14 percent. The Constitution provides Congress with the authority to oversee all international trade agreements, but the administration is seeking to reinstitute a process called “Fast Track” that would allow the president to sign and enter into the TPP before Congress approves it and then would require a yes or no vote on the signed pact within ninety days with no amendments allowed and limited debate. “We join the vast majority of House Democrats in the 113th Congress who announced opposition to Fast Track Trade Promotion Authority,” said the members. “Nearly every Ranking Member and large blocs of the New Democrat Coalition, Blue Dogs, Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Caucus were united in opposing Fast Track and demanding a replacement to that Nixon-era procedure that Congress has refused to authorize but for five of the past twenty years.” In addition to Gallego, the letter was signed by U.S. Reps. Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Kathleen Rice (NY-4), Mark Takai (HI-1) and Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) View full letter, here. ##
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union: “Tonight President Obama outlined a bold agenda that will help expand opportunity for the middle class – that will make college more affordable, give the middle class tax relief, and extend sick leave for working families. The President outlined a clear vision for the country that is rooted in middle class economics - because when everyone gets a fair chance, our country succeeds. Unfortunately, while Democrats are pushing policies that will help all Americans, Republicans continue putting Wall Street and special interests first. I commend the President’s leadership and I look forward to working with him to make this agenda a reality.” ##
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday Rep. Ruben Gallego participated in a ceremony to commemorate Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and rename Broadway Road in Phoenix in his honor. Congressman Gallego released the following statement in remembrance and commemoration of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “It was an honor to stand next to so many African American leaders in Phoenix to rename this street after Dr. King. “Dr. King was a fearless and compassionate leader who fought for justice, peace and equality - who taught us that progress requires sacrifice and hard work, and that justice isn’t easily achievable. “MLK Day is a reminder of where we were, how far we’ve come, and how much work we still have ahead of us. Dr. King’s dream for America isn’t fulfilled yet and it won’t be until we achieve equal opportunity and equal treatment for all Americans regardless of the color of their skin, their religion, their sexual orientation or gender. “Dr. King told us “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” We will keep speaking out loud and clear and fighting to make this a just and compassionate country that welcomes the immigrant, that takes care of the poor, that celebrates our differences and defends everyone’s right to vote.” ##
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego released the following statement on the approval of the House Republicans poison pill amendments to the Department of Homeland Security funding bill: “It’s disappointing, but unfortunately not surprising that my Republican colleagues once again chose politics instead of doing what’s in the best interest of our country. It's outrageous and shameful that Republicans are toying with our national security in order to undermine President Obama and hurt immigrant families. "By voting for this anti-immigrant poison pills Republicans continue to prove that they can’t govern and that they’re willing to do anything to score political points – even putting our national security at risk.” ##
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ruben Gallego issued the following statement: “A few days into the 114th Congress and rather than working together, Republicans are playing politics - endangering our national security by threatening to withhold funds from DHS in order to deport DREAMers and immigrant families. Shame on them.” “Republicans have made it clear that they won’t act on legislation to move immigration reform forward and that they will fight tirelessly against anything that provides undocumented families relief from deportation. Republicans claim to be the party of family values - well it is not a family value to separate parents from their kids no matter what their status is. “I urge my Republican colleagues to bring a clean appropriations bill to the floor, and to come to the table to find a permanent solution to our broken immigration system.” ##
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Today President Obama announced the America’s College Promise Proposal, which will make 2 years of community college free for responsible students. Rep. Gallego made the following statement in regards to the President’s announcement: “College affordability is one of the most important issues of our time - millions of families in our country can’t afford to give their children access to a higher education, and young people are getting themselves into high amounts of debt to pay for their college tuition. “The President’s proposal will go a long way towards making college more affordable and accessible for young people and middle class families. I applaud the President’s leadership and I look forward to working to pass reforms to help those who are carrying the heavy burden of student loan debt because of the cost of higher education in the United States.” ##
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday during President Obama’s visit to Phoenix, Congressman Ruben Gallego discussed several topics of importance to Arizona – among them immigration and transportation improvements for the South Central corridor of Phoenix. Congressman Gallego thanked President Obama for taking bold executive action on immigration that will keep immigrant families together, boost our economy and begin to fix the issues with our broken immigration system. Rep. Gallego also assured President Obama that he will fight against Republican proposals that try to stop progress on this important issue. Congressman Gallego also discussed the need for transportation improvements in the South Central corridor of Phoenix – including expanding the light rail - and the Phoenix TIGER proposal which would help build upon previous federal and local capital investments that are currently underway in the area. The TIGER Award would not just improve transportation but also improve access to employment and the overall quality of life of for residents in the area. “Immigration and transportation improvements for the South Central corridor are important issues for my constituents that will greatly affect families in Arizona. The President is committed to these issues and I look forward to working with him and my fellow colleagues to continue moving Arizona and our country forward.” ##
01.09.2015	Washington - President Obama and Secretary Castro arrived in Phoenix last night where the President will deliver a speech today to highlight the administration’s next steps to stabilize the recovering housing sector and the positive economic impact it has on millions of middle class families. The following is a statement from Congressman Ruben Gallego: “I want to welcome President Obama and Secretary Castro to Phoenix. This was one of the cities most affected by the housing crisis and thanks to the continuous work and investment by this administration foreclosures have gone down significantly - to the lowest levels nationwide since 2006 - and home prices are up. “I applaud the President and his administration’s efforts to stabilize the housing market and to help more families afford the dream of home ownership. I am proud to join President Obama and Secretary Castro for this important announcement.” ##
01.07.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Ruben Gallego was sworn in as the Representative for Arizona's 7th Congressional District in the 114th Congress. Rep. Gallego released the following statement: "It is an honor and a privilege to serve the people of Arizona's 7th Congressional District in the 114th Congress. I want to thank my constituents for putting their trust in me. I am the proud son of Mexican and Colombian immigrants, and the first in my family to go to college. I am living proof that the American Dream still exists and I am committed to fighting for better opportunities for our families and our kids so they too can achieve their American Dream. The 114th Congress will face many challenges but we must remember that we are elected to work on behalf of the American people - the constant bickering and the lack of action that plagued the previous Congress were unacceptable. I know the task ahead of us is not an easy one, but I am confident that we can work together in a bipartisan manner to pass much needed reforms that will help Arizona families and make our state and our country stronger. We need to make higher education more affordable, ensure that veterans and our families get appropriate care and that working families have the resources they need to get ahead, that immigrant families are no longer separated and that teachers have the resources and compensation they deserve. I will work tirelessly to make sure the voices of my constituents are heard and that their needs are met.” ##
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Ruben Gallego was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Ruben Gallego was elected to serve as representative of Arizona’s 7th Congressional District. Representative Ruben Gallego was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
