01.11.2019	On January 10, 2019, Utah Senators Mike Lee & Mitt Romney introduced the Protect Utah’s Rural Economy (PURE) Act. The legislation would protect Utah from unilateral intrusion through the Antiquities Act. After the Senate introduction of the legislation, Representatives Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chris Stewart (UT-02), and John Curtis (UT-03) released the following joint statement: “We are pleased with our Senate colleagues for this gesture. For too long, Utah has been vulnerable to the whims of Washington. Decisions for Utah should be made by Utahns. Who best knows the state than those who depend on Utah lands for their livelihoods? “For the past several decades, the Antiquities Act has been abused with some of the most egregious abuses happening in Utah. What was once a law passed to protect landmarks, has become a political weapon. Our state is still dealing with the ramifications of the Obama & Clinton abuses. “In the House, we have been beating this drum for years and we stand ready to push companion legislation as soon as it passes the Senate.”
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump's remarks from the Oval Office: "This shutdown impasse is entirely due to the misuse of the Senate filibuster. It’s not complicated, America should have secure borders. This is something Democrats have supported for years, until recently. Now they insist on playing political games over 1/10th of 1% of government spending. Let’s end this impasse, secure our border, and reopen the government."
01.06.2019	WASHINGTON – In the midst of a partial lapse in government appropriations, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) delivered a letter to the Acting Secretary of the Interior, David Bernhardt. The letter requested that the Department of the Interior "take emergency measures to resume operations” at Utah’s national parks. Bishop signed the letter as the top Republican on the House Committee on Natural Resources. Signatories also included Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-2) and Rep. John Curtis (UT-3). Stewart and Curtis represent the congressional districts containing Utah’s national parks. In a January 6 response from the Department of the Interior, Acting Secretary Bernhardt said, “… the burdens being born by local communities should be addressed by Park Service personnel within days, particularly at the bigger parks such as Zion and Bryce Canyon National Parks.” (emphasis added) 010619 Bishop response letter-1.jpg .pdf Following the news from DOI, Rep. Bishop issued this statement:“I am immensely grateful to the Administration for the decision to restore services at our national parks in the midst of this shutdown. Oftentimes, grandstanding and theater can distract us from the important governmental task of providing safety and security. This decision will enhance safety and add protections to all those who choose to recreate in Utah’s parks.” Further information was provided by the Department of the Interior in THIS MEMO & NEWS RELEASE.
01.05.2019	WASHINGTON – As the top Republican on the Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has delivered a letter to the Acting Secretary of the Interior requesting that the Department of the Interior take emergency measures to resume operations at Utah’s Mighty 5 national parks. Signatories of the letter include Utah Representatives Rob Bishop, Chris Stewart, & John Curtis. Screenshot 2019-01-05 10.50.55.png
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives has voted on H. Res. 6 – Title I. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-01) voted against the ‘rules package’ and released the following statement: “I have served in Congress under four separate Speakers of the House and Nancy Pelosi is by far the most heavy handed. She is picking up right where she left off. Under the regained speakership of Pelosi, the House Democrats have made it easier to spend taxpayer money, ignore the debt ceiling, and raise taxes. My vote against these Pelosi rules is a vote FOR Utah.”
11.27.2018	Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced HR 7163, a bill to designate the outstation of the Department of Veterans Affairs in North Ogden, UT, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet Center Outstation. Brent Russell Taylor served as Mayor of North Ogden City and as a Major in the Utah Army National Guard. On Saturday, November 3rd, 2018, Major Taylor was killed in an attack in Afghanistan. From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Rob Bishop spoke about Major Taylor and the designation of the Major Brent Taylor Vet Center Outstation. Bishop Introduces Bill to Honor Fallen Utah Soldier Video of Bishop Introduces Bill to Honor Fallen Utah Soldier BISHOP: Major Brent Russell Taylor is one of six brothers to each wear the uniform of the United States Army. While training Afghan security forces in support of Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, Major Taylor was killed by an apparent insider attack on November 3rd in Kabul Province, while in the final months of deployment. He is survived by his wife, Jennie, and seven children; Megan, Lincoln, Alex, Jacob, Ellie, Jonathan, & Caroline. In Utah, we will forever mourn with the family of Major Taylor. We will grieve his loss and honor his sacrifice. As Major Taylor, and his brothers, passed through Basic Combat Training, they learned the Army Values in great detail. Those values are Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity, and Personal Courage. Major Brent Taylor lived these values. First: Loyalty Major Taylor swore to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States. He swore to support and defend our nation’s guiding document against all enemies. He demonstrated his loyalty to that oath time and time again. Duty Major Taylor earned a Bronze Star for, “his outstanding dedication to duty during combat operations in Iraq.” The Army says, “doing your duty means more than carrying out your assigned tasks.” Brent Taylor’s military service record shows he employed this guidance to the fullest. So too does his life outside the military. Taylor was not only Major Taylor, he was also Mayor Taylor. His community and neighbors so entrusted him to lead and provide that they elected him mayor of North Ogden City, Utah. In that role, he did much more than ‘carry out his assigned tasks.’ He worked to beautify and improve the city. He aimed at creating a community that was welcoming to newcomers. In the pre-dawn morning of his last Christmas on earth, Mayor Taylor ventured out into the cold to oversee the snow plows and salt trucks as they cleared the roads and made his city safe. Respect Major Taylor not only enjoyed the respect of his family, community, and fellow service members. His praise came from across the globe. In a letter from Afghanistan to Mrs. Taylor following her husband’s death, an Afghan aviator said, “your husband taught me to … treat my children as treasured gifts, to be a better father, to be a better [husband], and to be a better man.” A man does not receive that level of praise without first showing forth their own grand measure of respect. Major Brent Taylor knew about respect. Selfless Service As a high school senior in Chandler, Arizona, Brent delivered the Honors Speech at graduation and his instruction to the audience was to, “Go out. Be happy. Find peace and make a positive difference in the world.” Major Taylor left his family and American soil on four deployments to serve and, ‘make a positive difference in the world.’ In that same Honors Speech, he gave the order to “stick with it to the end.” He, himself, did just that. Honor Major Taylor honored his faith, his family, his community, and his county throughout his short life. Brent’s social media postings are replete with photos of his children and family. They show images of love, service, and patriotism. Qualities of a man, husband, and father who honors his family and country. In his last Facebook post, Brent implored that we all remember “we have far more as Americans that unites us than divides us.” He ended that post with the words, “God Bless America.” Integrity The army says that integrity is a quality you develop by adhering to moral principles and that the more choices you make based on integrity, the more this highly prized value will affect your relationships with family and friends. The days since the sad passing of Major Brent Taylor have been filled with an outpouring of love and grief expressed by those who knew Brent. His integrity left an impression and his integrity affected his relationships. Personal Courage In September of 2007, Major Taylor was commanding a convoy in Iraq when he was hit by an insurgent IED. His vehicle was struck by shrapnel, asphalt, and concrete debris. For the wounds received in action, Major Taylor was awarded the Purple Heart. He would go on to deploy twice more. Brent Taylor stood as an example of personal courage. He lived the Army Values. In April of this year, the Department of Veterans Affairs opened a facility in North Ogden City. It’s a place where veterans and their families can go to receive counseling, support, and other help. It’s a place located right in the heart of Brent Taylor’s hometown and as a small gesture to his service and sacrifice, I have introduced a bill to name this VA facility, the “Major Brent Taylor Vet Center Outstation.” The naming of a building will never repay the debt our nation owes Mayor Taylor or his family, but it can stand as a humble reminder of the citizen soldier who lost his life in the service of others.
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON — Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered this statement following the death of former Utah Congressman James Hansen: “I will miss my friend Jim Hansen. My condolences go out to Ann and the rest of the Hansen family. As Utah’s longest serving House member and the first to hold a full committee chairmanship, we owe Jim a great debt. He was a trailblazer. Not just for Utah, but for me personally. I followed him into the state legislature, to the Speakership, as Chairman of the Western States Caucus, into the U.S. House, and finally as Chairman of the Resources Committee. I will be forever grateful for the time he took to mentor me in each and every one of these roles. His impact on my life, and many others, cannot be overstated. "Jim accomplished much without ever succumbing to arrogance. He was a good man, a fine leader, and a cherished friend. He will be missed."
11.04.2018	Brigham City, UT – Following the death of North Ogden City Mayor Brent Taylor in Afghanistan while serving as a Major in the Utah Army National Guard, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-1) issued the following statement: “With the death of Major Brent Taylor, Utah has lost a hero. My heart breaks for his wife, seven children, and the rest of the Taylor family. Through his dedication to community as Mayor, and his love of country as an officer in the Utah Army National Guard, Brent Taylor set an example of service we all honor. His sacrifice will not be forgotten.”
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Rob Bishop (R-UT) announces his 2018 Veterans Resource Fair. The annual fair will take place at the Hill Aerospace Museum. Veterans and their families will learn more about their benefits and have questions answered directly by representatives from federal, state, and local agencies and veteran advocacy organizations. Refreshments will be served. WHAT: U.S. Congressman Rob Bishop’s 2018 Veterans Resource & Education Fair WHEN: Monday, September 10, 2018 4:00 PM – 7:00 PM MDT WHERE: Hill Aerospace Museum 7961 Wardleigh Rd. Hill AFB, UT 84056 **MEDIA is invited to attend. Please RSVP to Lee Lonsberry**
08.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump signing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes a land transfer provision: “By securing this 88-acre land transfer, President Trump and the committee have ensured that vital military research will carry on at Utah State University. The university has been a strong innovative partner, and I know this land will continue to further goals of research and military support,” said Bishop. “For over half a century, Utah State University and Space Dynamics Laboratory have conducted critical research for the Department of Defense and NASA on this parcel of land just outside of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest. Chairman Bishop has championed the transfer of this parcel to ensure Utah State University’s uninterrupted use of the land in perpetuity to assure important scientific research and educational use continues at this site. We are very appreciative of the Chairman’s leadership in advancing this important institutional priority.” – Niel Holt, Director of the Space Dynamics Laboratory Background: Without congressional action, the U.S. Forest Service lacked authority to sell or transfer 80 acres of property within the Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest solely to the Utah State University Research Foundation (USURF). USURF has used this parcel of land since the early 1960s, and Bishop’s provision allows the land transfer to take place, thereby facilitating continued use of the property for scientific research in direct support of ongoing U.S. military research contracts.
07.20.2018	House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) selected Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) to negotiate the final version of the Farm Bill as a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee. Upon appointment to the Committee, Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: “The House-passed Farm Bill is good for Utah and good for America. As we enter into negotiations with the Senate, I will take particular care to defend and promote the provisions which support Utah’s farmers and ranchers. This bill is important to our nation’s economy and security. I look forward to serving on this bicameral, bipartisan committee.” Speaker Paul Ryan said, “We see this Farm Bill as pivotal for building a sturdier ladder of opportunity in America. With all this momentum in our economy, there could not be a better time to help more people move from welfare to work. This is a chance to close the skills gap, better equip our workforce, and support much-needed development in rural communities.” NOTEWORTHY: Rep. Bishop is the only Republican member of the House to be appointed by Speaker Ryan to negotiate every bill sent to conference during the 115thCongress. Bishop reconciled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December of 2017; he is currently in the midst of NDAA negotiations; and he will commence his efforts on the Farm Bill as soon as Senate conferees are appointed. PROVISIONS IN THE HOUSE VERSION INCLUDE: Reauthorization of the Livestock Forage Program, which provides compensation to eligible livestock producers who have suffered grazing losses due to environmental factors. Repeal of WOTUS rule, which returns authority to states. Support for Utah’s dairy farmers by adjusting coverage and premium levels, improving the accuracy of the feed cost formula, and by expanding the availability of the Livestock Gross Margin for dairy cattle insurance policies. Continuation of funding for voluntary, incentive-based conservation programs like EQIP, which helps Utah farmers improve irrigation systems to minimize the effects of drought. Strengthening of the trade promotion of U.S. agricultural exports, which will help Utah farmers who export over $400 million per year. Enhancement of SNAP work and training requirements for work-capable adults between the ages of 18-59.
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) introduced H.R. 6331, the Daylight Act, which empowers states to decide how their states will observe daylight saving time. The legislation allows states to determine whether they will continue under the status quo, operate year-round under daylight saving time, or operate year-round under standard time. Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: “For any student of federalism, this is a no-brainer. The range of industry and lifestyle is so varied across our country, it only makes sense for states to have the ability to set their watches the way they best see fit. Bishop continued, “The Daylight Act simply allows states the freedom to pursue one of these three options. This bill will not force any action nor compel a state to take any action. Quite simply, this gives people the flexibility to do what they want. We are reinforcing the states’ power to govern by loosening the grip held by the federal government.” BACKGROUND: · States are currently ABLE to opt out of Daylight Time. (Hawaii & Arizona) · States are currently UNABLE to opt out of Standard Time. · Dozens of state legislatures have introduced or passed legislation that would change or study our current time system.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Speaker Paul Ryan announced the core members of Congress selected to comprise the House team tasked with negotiating and reconciling the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with the Senate. The House and Senate have each passed versions of the NDAA. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), Rep. Bishop (UT-01) will join the House-Senate conference committee to produce a single piece of Department of Defense authorizing legislation. Rep. Bishop issued the following statement after his appointment to the conference committee: “First and foremost, the NDAA is the legislation through which we in Congress ‘provide for the common defense.’ That is an important responsibility. This year’s NDAA will also reemphasize the important role Utah plays in the defense of our nation and our freedoms. Both the military and civilian workforce at Hill Air Force Base are vital to our country’s security. Ensuring Utah and the nation are properly supported is my top priority.” In May, following the HASC vote to forward NDAA to the House floor, Rep. Bishop said, “The strength of our military is once again a priority for the administration, and the Armed Services Committee is right to pass an NDAA that shares that priority.” BACKGROUND: A Bishop provision in the House bill streamlines the process by which the Department of Defense uses public lands in the west on existing military test and training ranges, saving the Pentagon millions of dollars each year in readiness funds by eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy currently required to have military leases renewed. The military will no longer have to undertake expensive 25-year environmental reviews for the Department of Interior to renew the military’s leases on public lands in order for our troops to be able to continue to train to fight and defend our nation. Included in the House bill is a Bishop provision transferring approximately 80 acres of surplus U.S. Forest Service land in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Bear Lake to the Utah State University Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) so that SDL may continue to use this site for advanced scientific research, education, and other endeavors helpful to the military mission. Bishop spearheaded an effort to augment funding for nuclear modernization. The bulk of this work will be accomplished at Hill AFB. Orbital ATK is also vying for the solid rocket motor portion of the project.
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON – The United States House of Representatives passed the Golden Spike 150th Anniversary Act (H. R. 5751). The bill recognizes the historic significance of the completion of America’s first transcontinental railroad by establishing the 52nd U.S. Historical Park and designating it the, “Golden Spike National Historical Park.” Reps. Chris Stewart, Mia Love, & John Curtis are all original cosponsors of this bill. From the floor of the U.S. House, Rep Bishop said, “This is a prominent symbol of the most significant achievement of the 19th Century. And it is, for transportation, as significant as landing a man on the moon would be for the 20th Century. The ability of having the rail system there meant that some of my ancestors that had to walk every step across the plains taking months to get to Utah; could now do it in seven days.” Screenshot 2018-06-25 16.51.34.png VIDEO HERE Following Rep. Bishop’s remarks from the House floor, Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD) offered his own remarks in support of the Golden Spike 150th Anniversary Act. VIDEO AVAILABLE HERE BACKGROUND: Rep. Bishop said this on the day the bill was introduced: “The Golden Spike 150th Anniversary Act further acknowledges Utah's Promontory Summit as a place that changed the world. This new Park will not only preserve the history made on that spring day in 1869, but also the herculean efforts which led to the driving of the spike and the new course of history that followed.” The Act also creates the Transcontinental Railroad Network. The Network will include sites related to the history, construction, and legacy of the Transcontinental Railroad and will be similar in makeup to the Underground Railroad Network to Freedom and the African American Civil Rights Network.
06.22.2018	IMG_1486 copy.jpg HIGH RES WASHINGTON – As dean of Utah’s House delegation, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) hosted the State’s full federal delegation as well as Governor Gary Herbert for a meeting to discuss a range of issues important to Utah. Topics included the Inland Port, Medicaid expansion, and ways the federal delegation may best work with the state. Following the delegation meeting, Rep. Bishop addressed a group of over 100 Utah State Legislators, County Commissioners, and guests at a White House meeting hosted by the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Bishop, who chairs the Speaker’s Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs, spoke to the group about a number of priorities in the House as well as priorities of the House Committee on Natural Resources. IMG_4651.jpg HIGH RES Bishop emphasized legislative focuses on appropriations, NDAA, infrastructure, water, the Farm Bill, immigration, land, and energy bills that will give people greater access to recreational opportunities and economic development. ­ Other speakers included Energy Secretary Rick Perry, Senators Orrin Hatch & Mike Lee, and Deputy Labor Secretary Patrick Pizzella.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON ­ The U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act (commonly known as the Farm Bill). After voting FOR the Farm Bill, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered the following statement: “This legislation strengthens America’s crucial agriculture industry. Utah farmers and ranchers are particularly empowered by provisions in this bill. From trade promotion to bolstered livestock programs, Utah will find many deserved benefits in the House version of the Farm Bill. I hope the Senate will honor Utah farmers in the same way.” Provisions in the Farm Bill include: · Reauthorization of the Livestock Forage Program, which provides compensation to eligible livestock producers who have suffered grazing losses due to environmental factors. · Repeal of WOTUS, which returns power to states. · Support for Utah’s dairy farmers by adjusting coverage and premium levels, improving the accuracy of the feed cost formula, and by expanding the availability of the Livestock Gross Margin for dairy cattle insurance policies. · Continuation of funding for voluntary, incentive-based conservation programs like EQIP, which helps Utah farmers improve irrigation systems to minimize the effects of drought. · Strengthening of the trade promotion of U.S. agricultural exports, which will help Utah farmers who export over $400 million per year. · Enhancement of SNAP work and training requirements for work-capable adults between the ages of 18-59.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Following the signing of President Trump’s Executive Order on immigration, Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement: CLICK HERE for video “I am relieved to know that these family separation issues are being addressed. I stand ready to pass legislation that will enhance border security and give due respect to the family unit. Security and compassion are not mutually exclusive. These problems stemmed from legal uncertainly. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the ongoing effort to solve this problem the right way.” NOTE: Rep. Bishop has submitted language included in Rep. Goodlatte’s Securing America’s Future Act (H. R. 4760) and the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 6136). The Bishop provision removes impediments to the Border Patrol as they defend our borders and execute certain search and rescue operations. These search and rescue operations often take place when immigrants find themselves stranded in desert borderlands without proper provisions like food and water.
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and the US House of Representatives passed a number of measures aimed at combating the nationwide scourge of the opioid crisis. 635 Utahns died of an opioid overdose in 2016. Rep. Bishop and the House have made combating this crisis a top priority. CLICK HERE to hear Rep. Bishop speak on this life or death issue. image.jpg CLICK HERE for more details on what Rep. Bishop and the House are doing to combat this problem as well as a listing of the legislation to battle the opioid crisis.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. After voting FOR the measure, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement: “House passage of this year’s NDAA further signals Congress’s continued commitment to fulfill its constitutional duty to provide for the common defense. The House passed a bill which recognizes Utah’s crucial role in national security. It’s now up to the Senate to do its work and support our nation’s men and women in uniform.” BACKGROUND: A Bishop provision in the bill streamlines the process by which the Department of Defense uses public lands in the west on existing military test and training ranges, saving the Pentagon millions of dollars each year in readiness funds by eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy currently required to have military leases renewed. The military will no longer have to undertake expensive 25-year environmental reviews for the Department of Interior to renew the military’s leases on public lands in order for our troops to be able to continue to train to fight and defend our nation. Included in the bill is a Bishop provision transferring approximately 80 acres of surplus U.S. Forest Service land in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Bear Lake to the Utah State University Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) so that SDL may continue to use this site for advanced scientific research, education, and other endeavors helpful to the military mission. Bishop spearheaded an effort to augment funding for nuclear modernization. The bulk of this work will be accomplished at Hill AFB. Orbital ATK is also vying for the solid rocket motor portion of the project.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – The House Armed Services Committee has approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. As a senior member of the Committee, Rep. Bishop voted for the NDAA. Bishop offered the following statement: “This year’s NDAA reflects Congress’s continued commitment to uphold the Constitution and provide for the common defense. This bill also recognizes Utah’s important national security role. The strength of our military is once again a priority for the administration, and the Armed Services Committee is right to pass an NDAA that shares that priority.” BACKGROUND: A Bishop provision in the bill streamlines the process by which the Department of Defense uses public lands in the west on existing military test and training ranges, saving the Pentagon millions of dollars each year in readiness funds by eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy currently required to have military leases renewed. The military will no longer have to undertake expensive 25-year environmental reviews for the Department of Interior to renew the military’s leases on public lands in order for our troops to be able to continue to train to fight and defend our nation. Included in the bill a Bishop provision transferring approximately 80 acres of surplus U.S. Forest Service Land in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Bear Lake to the Utah State University Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) so that SDL may continue to use this site for advanced scientific research, education, and other endeavors helpful to the military mission. Bishop spearheaded an effort to augment funding for nuclear modernization. The bulk of this work will be accomplished at Hill AFB. Orbital ATK is also vying for the solid rocket motor portion of the project.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) is introducing the, “Golden Spike 150thAnniversary Act.” This bill recognizes the historic significance of the completion of America’s first transcontinental railroad by establishing the 52nd U.S. Historical Park and designating it the, “Golden Spike National Historical Park.” Reps. Chris Stewart, Mia Love, & John Curtis are all original cosponsors of this bill. Bishop said, “The Golden Spike 150th Anniversary Act further acknowledges Utah's Promontory Summit as a place that changed the world. This new Park will not only preserve the history made on that spring day in 1869, but also the herculean efforts which led to the driving of the spike and the new course of history that followed.” The Act also creates the Transcontinental Railroad Network. The Network will include sites related to the history, construction, and legacy of the Transcontinental Railroad and will be similar in makeup to the Underground Railroad Network to Freedom and the African American Civil Rights Network. CLICK HERE for bill text
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announced the opening of a new Vet Center in North Ogden. The VA Vet Center Program was established in 1979 and its Centers provide individual and group counseling for veterans, service members, and their families. Veterans can also count on bereavement counseling, sexual trauma counseling, and help with substance abuse. Rep. Bishop (R-UT) offered the following statement regarding the opening of the new community-based Vet Center: “It’s about time northern Utah’s military veterans have convenient access to the care they so rightly deserve. Veterans make up one of the most resilient and noble portions of our society. As a community, we must have their backs. The opening of this Center in North Ogden represents our commitment to supporting vets even after their days in uniform are done.” BACKGROUND: For over a decade, Rep. Rob Bishop has been unrelenting in his commitment to see a Vet Center in northern Utah. Starting with a letter to then VA Secretary Jim Nicholson in 2007, Bishop continued his efforts, alongside the veteran community, through 8 subsequent acting and confirmed VA Secretaries and 3 administrations.
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued this statement following the death of former first lady Barbara Bush: "Mrs. Bush lived and died on her own terms. Her strength and dignity ought to be the example we all follow. While I mourn for those she leaves behind, I am heartened to know that generations to come will marvel at her legacy of grace."
04.11.2018	Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement after the announcement by House Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) that he will not seek reelection to the U.S. House of Representatives: “Right now, I’m in a state of denial. I hate to see him go. Speaker Ryan has led the House through some of the most momentous accomplishments in recent history. Americans are now enjoying long-overdue tax relief and the United States military is better armed than it has been for decades. As the leader of the House, Speaker Ryan deserves much credit for these achievements. Bishop added, “Family always comes first and Paul’s commitment to his own family is admirable. I wish him the best as he returns home to Janesville at the end of his term. I look forward to working with the Speaker for the duration of his time in Congress.” NOTE: Rep. Bishop is currently chairman of the Speaker’s Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs. In May of 2017, Speaker Ryan appointed Rep. Bishop to lead this task force with an eye toward a rebalance of power in government based on the principle of federalism.
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Along with the rest of Utah’s House delegation, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted against the $1.3 trillion omnibus spending package, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018. Following the vote, Bishop offered this statement: “This bill finally begins rebuilding the military that has been significantly weakened over the last decade - which is good - but the rest of the bill expands the role of government, costs too much money, and misses opportunities to help Utah. This happened because Senate Democrats vetoed good ideas and the rules of the Senate allowed that to happen. Going forward, I will dedicate my efforts to reforming the process that produced this flawed product.”
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has introduced H.R. 5303, the “Full Count Act of 2018” to provide a more accurate and complete accounting of certain overseas Americans, including LDS missionaries, in the U.S. Census. Rep. Bishop released the following statement: CLICK HERE for video “Currently, the Census Bureau doesn’t count Americans living overseas at the time of the decennial census unless they are affiliated with the federal government. This policy helps states that have lots of residents overseas with the military or other federal government operations, and it hurts those states that have lots of residents who are not affiliated with the federal government.” Bishop added, “In the 2000 census, about 11,000 residents of Utah were Mormon missionaries temporarily living abroad. They were residents of the state under any definition of the term resident; however, they were not counted in the census. We have a chance to make a change that will help real people, and we should do it.” CLICK HERE for details
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has voted for H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018. This bipartisan bill is designed to curb violence in our nation’s schools by providing resources for teachers, students, and law enforcement officers. This bill also provides funding that may be used for metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other technologies to keep schools safe. Following his vote, Rep. Bishop offered this statement: “As a teacher, I understand the significance of a secure school environment. This bill allows schools to improve student safety while respecting constitutional rights. The legislation assists states and local schools in designing safety programs specific to their needs. This is local empowerment designed to keep kids safe.”
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON – The US House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 1800. The bipartisan bill, sponsored by Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, authorizes the transfer of an 80-acre parcel of land to the Utah State University Research Foundation. The transfer will facilitate the continued use of the property for scientific research in direct support of ongoing U.S. military research. From the House floor, Rep. Bishop offered the following: “This bill is the cleanest and simplest way of transferring control of this land back to the entity which is using it now so that they can continue their research, much of which is done in support of our military.” Additionally, Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) spoke in support of the Bishop bill from the floor of the House. Lowenthal stated, “I support this legislation and its adoption by the House. H.R. 1800 authorizes the transfer of 80 acres of Forest Service land to the Utah State University Research Foundation. The land will support ongoing research efforts that support national defense and space programs. … Thank you, Chairman Bishop, for working across the aisle to ensure that we met these goals in this legislation.” VIDEO OF THE STATEMENTS IS AVAILABLE HERE: BISHOP LOWENTHAL
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered the following statement following the President’s State of the Union address: Screenshot 2018-01-30 18.23.51.jpg click HERE for video “Tonight, we were reminded that in the Oval Office someone works who is dedicated to taking on the important task of rebuilding our military. Under the Obama Administration, our military and our security suffered through 4 budget cuts and 2 manpower cuts. Those days are over. "The civilian and military workforce at Utah's Hill Air Force Base should be encouraged to know their Commander in Chief has just reemphasized the crucial role they play in America's military readiness. The President is pursuing a policy of peace through strength. Utah is providing that strength.” Regarding infrastructure, Rep. Bishop added: “President Trump understands that we must modernize onerous and duplicative federal permitting requirements for any infrastructure package to succeed. I look forward to working with his administration on targeted streamlining of the NEPA process to get infrastructure projects off the ground quickly in a less costly manner. “The President's commitment to working with Congress has been fundamental to his successes, and I look forward to working with his administration on the range of initiatives he's outlined to responsibly develop our natural resources and grow the American economy.”
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement after casting a vote for the Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act, H.R. 195: “Tonight, the House did its job. Historically, shutdowns haven’t solved problems or broken impasses, but rather have hurt Americans. Now, Democrats in the Senate must care more about people than political grandstanding. This bill will keep the government open, fund the military, extend CHIP, and stop the medical device tax. Not a bad compromise.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON– Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), along with the entire Utah House delegation, has introduced the Marijuana Effective Drug Study Act, H.R. 4825. The bipartisan MEDS Act has also been introduced in the Senate and is aimed at creating a reasoned and responsible environment where the best minds may be able to analyze and examine something about which we know very little. Rep. Bishop is joined by Representatives Blumenauer D-OR, Curtis R-UT, Love R-UT, Norton D-DC, Polis D-CO, Raskin D-MD, and Stewart R-UT as original cosponsors of the MEDS Act. Rep. Bishop and Utah House Delegation members issued the following statements upon introduction of the bill: Rep. Rob Bishop: “The MEDS Act is common sense. When presented with an opportunity to alleviate the suffering of those afflicted with painful disorders, we must take it. We don’t know all the answers when it comes to the effects of medical-grade marijuana. This legislation allows scientists and researchers to get at those answers in a responsible manner that isn’t hindered by unnecessary roadblocks.” Rep. Chris Stewart: “It is well beyond time that we streamline and clarify medical-marijuana research. If there is potential for more Americans to live pain-free lives, we owe it to them to get the facts.” Rep. Mia Love: “I am aware of the desperation of parents whose children suffer from painful medical conditions like epilepsy and how they are searching for help for their children. I also know Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, M.S. and cancer patients who are in pain. To allow for the study of how this may help those conditions, while maintaining important checks and protections, is something that as a Utahn and a mother I support.” Rep. John Curtis: “Too often unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles hinder innovation. This bill will help lower the barriers to medical-grade marijuana research and hopefully lead to breakthroughs in treatments. I am proud to join with my colleagues to introduce this bill and give hope to families that are suffering from serious conditions like cancer and epilepsy.”
01.03.2018	BRIGHAM CITY, UT – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement upon the passing of the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Thomas S. Monson: “President Monson’s service to Utah, the LDS Church, and the world is without equal. He will be greatly missed, and his influence will be felt for generations to come. I am heartened by the belief that his passing leads to a divine reunion with his wife, Frances. My thoughts today are with his family and the millions throughout the world in mourning.”
01.02.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered the following statement in reaction to the retirement announcement issued by Senator Orrin Hatch: “I had just started teaching at Box Elder High School when Orrin Hatch won his first election to the US Senate. He has since gone on to be Utah’s longest serving Senator and most successful politician. His influence can be felt by all Americans. I know his wife, Elaine, and his family will look forward to spending more time with Orrin. I wish him the best as he moves into the next chapter of his life.”
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – The US House of Representatives has voted for final passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by approving the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1. Following passage of the Conference Report, Representative Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement: “Passage of this bill will mean great savings for America’s middle class families. The expansion of the child tax credit is in line with Utah values and American Ideals. Additionally, this bill will encourage wage growth and job creation in the Beehive State, and the tax system in America is now on its way to becoming more fair and simple. Today’s vote is not the end of a story, but rather the beginning of great efforts in the House to continue simplifying the American tax code.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – The US House of Representatives has voted to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement after his vote for the bill: “Utahns deserve to keep more of their hard-earned money. Each year, Utahns and other Americans spend billions of dollars complying with our needlessly complicated tax code. I voted for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act because it will save Utahns thousands of dollars each year. Furthermore, the bill contains numerous provisions that bring federal tax policy more in line with Utah values.” ROB BISHOP - Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.mp3 BACKGROUND: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is estimated to raise the after-tax income of Utah families by $2,969. 71,033 taxpayers in Utah’s 1st District claim the child tax credit. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act increases the child tax credit from $1,000 per child to $1,600. CLICK HERE for more on the impact of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act on Utah’s 1st District.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: “This year’s NDAA finally recognizes that the 4 budget cuts and 2 manpower cuts to our military during the Obama years have harmed our military readiness. This bill, with a strong bipartisan vote, finally realizes this trend must be reversed. It provides the pathway to rebuild our military infrastructure. There are several provisions that will be of benefit to Utah’s Hill Air Force Base and the civilian and military workforce that makes Hill so essential to our military success.” BACKGROUND: As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, a number of Rep. Bishop’s priorities were included in the House’s base bill and the Conference Report. Those priorities include the construction of a Consolidated Mission Control Center, a Pump House, and a Life Support Facility to support the mission of the F-35 and other aircraft at Utah’s Hill Air Force Base. Also, efforts of Rep. Bishop will extend direct hiring authority for Hill AFB. This authority will allow Hill leaders to expedite the hiring process for civilian employees.
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) has introduced the “Hyde Park Land Conveyance Act” which directs the Secretary of the Interior to transfer 80 acres of BLM land to the City of Hyde Park, UT. Rep. Bishop issued the following statement: “This common-sense transfer is a win for all involved. The city of Hyde Park will be able to further pursue its community goals, and the federal government will be free of a burden it shouldn’t be shouldering. This is something that should have been done over three decades ago.” BACKGROUND: In 1985, the United States Department of the Interior determined that an isolated tract of Bureau of Land Management land in Cache County, UT was eligible for disposal The decision document states that, “due to its location, size, and lack of access, this parcel is difficult and uneconomic to manage as part of the public lands, and is not suitable for management by another federal department or agency.” In the subsequent 32 years since the Interior decision, this land has remained the responsibility of the BLM which has a backlogged deferred maintenance burden of ~$810 million. Hyde Park City welcomes the transfer and is supportive of this legislation.
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON - House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) has announced that Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) will serve on the House-Senate Conference Committee tasked with reconciling the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA.) The Conference Committee is made up of lawmakers with a deep commitment to and knowledge of the needs of US defense efforts. Conferees will work together to resolve the differences between the House and Senate versions of the NDAA. As Utah’s sole representation on an Armed Services Committee and a senior member of this year’s Conference Committee, Rep. Bishop issued the following statement regarding his NDAA priorities: “This year’s funding levels are a vast improvement over recent years, and will help as we address serious readiness shortfalls that plagued the military under the Obama Administration. We must support our armed forces as they stand ready to defend against the various global threats facing America. “Language contained in the House bill also means Utah and Hill Air Force Base will continue in its critical role as a player in our national defense. Full funding for the F-35 program, and various construction projects at Hill secures the Base as the home of 5th generation fighters for a long time to come. “The funding increases in the House legislation translate directly to enhanced operations and greater maintenance capability at the Ogden Air Logistics Complex, and other areas where depot work is carried out.” BACKGROUND: As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, a number of Rep. Bishop’s priorities were included in the House’s base bill. Those priorities included the construction of a Consolidated Mission Control Center, a Pump House, and a Life Support Facility to support the mission of the F-35 and other aircraft at Utah’s Hill Air Force Base.
08.21.2017	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will host a series of Town Hall meetings around Utah's first congressional district. The series will begin with a radio broadcast from Vernal's KVEL 920 AM, followed by a pair of meetings in Brigham City & Layton (full details below). Rep. Bishop has extended the following invitation to constituents: "Thank you for all your letters, phone calls, and emails. Now let's get together. It is my hope that we can have an elevated and productive dialogue about real issues that are important to Utah families. Please join me if you can!" AUGUST 23RD 5:00 – 6:00 PM LIVE Radio Town Hall on KVEL 920 AM Questions may be emailed to: steveKLCY@gmail.com (Broadcast area: Vernal, Roosevelt, Duchesne, Manila, and surrounding areas) AUGUST 24TH 7:00 PM Box Elder High School Auditorium 380 S 600 W Brigham City, UT 84302 AUGUST 25TH 7:00 PM Layton Christian Academy 2352 UT-193 Layton, UT 84040
06.19.2017	On Thursday, June 22, 2017 at 10:30 AM EDT in House Visitor Center (HVC) Room 210, the newly formed Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs will hold its inaugural hearing. In May, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) announced the creation of the Task Force, a bipartisan group of lawmakers focused on balancing the interests between federal and local governments. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) has been appointed Chairman of the Task Force. Ahead of the hearing, Speaker Ryan issued the following statement: "Federalism is a foundational principle of our Constitution, and Washington has so much to learn about how state and local leaders are driving innovation and responsive government. There's no question we can all work as better partners, and I want to thank Chairman Bishop and the bipartisan group of lawmakers who have stepped forward to join this effort. More partnership, more subsidiarity and a willingness to listen and learn will go a long way. I look forward to participating in the process and seeing what the Task Force can produce." Task Force Chairman Rob Bishop said: "I'm looking forward to kicking off this important Task Force and hearing from some of our advisory council partners. Their ideas for rebalancing power in government is much needed. The vast experience these groups bring to the table will help us identify creative solutions to both procedural and policy problems facing our nation." WHAT: Speaker's Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs inaugural hearing. Local Perspectives: Examining the Current State of Intergovernmental Relations. WHEN: Thursday, June 22, 2017 at 10:30 AM EDT WHERE: House Visitors Center (HVC) Room 210 Witnesses will include: National Governors Association CEO & Executive Director Scott Pattison National Association of Counties President & Leon County, FL Commissioner Bryan Desloge The Council of State Governments - Tennessee Senate Majority Leader Mark Norris
06.06.2017	U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke has announced the appointment of Greg Sheehan to the position of Deputy Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Prior to the appointment, Sheehan worked as Director of the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources. Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement regarding the appointment: "It is exciting to see another Utah voice added to this Administration. While serving on our Natural Resources committee, Secretary Zinke was able to witness first-hand Utah values applied to the needs of public lands. The Secretary now has another Utah ally to address the fish and wildlife issues in America, and while the scenery is much better in Utah, Greg's outlook will be a welcome addition to Washington."
05.24.2017	Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has introduced H.R.2620, the Lawful Purpose and Self Defense Act. The Act will eliminate ambiguity in current code that could lead to the restriction of certain types of firearms and ammunition that are used for self-defense. This legislation will curtail the ability to interfere with the rights to obtain and use firearms for lawful purposes. Bishop offered the following statement: "The Founding Fathers were clear when they drafted the Bill of Rights. The 2nd Amendment is about security and self-defense. Vagaries in today's legal code pose a real threat to the right to keep and bear arms. The Obama Administration exploited this ambiguity to forward its agenda of restriction. It's time to ensure no future Administration tramples on these freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution." Chris W. Cox, Executive Director of the NRA Institute for Legislative Action said: "On behalf of the NRA's 5-million members, I would like to thank Chairman Rob Bishop for introducing this critical legislation. It sends a clear message that Congress will no longer allow federal bureaucrats to infringe on our Second Amendment right to self-protection." ---------- The Lawful Purpose and Self-Defense Act would: Eliminate ATF's authority to reclassify popular rifle ammunition as "armor piercing ammunition."The federal law governing armor piercing ammunition was passed by Congress to target handgun projectiles, but ATF has used the law to ban common rifle ammunition. Provide for the lawful importation of any non-NFA firearm or ammunition that may otherwise be lawfully possessed and sold within the United States.ATF has used the current discretionary "sporting purposes" standard to deny the importation of firearms that would be perfectly legal to manufacture, sell, and possess in the United States. Protect shotguns, shotgun shells, and larger caliber rifles from arbitrary classification as "destructive devices." Classification as a destructive device subjects a firearm to the registration and taxation provision of the National Firearms Act (NFA) and creates a ban on possession of the firearm in some states. Broaden the temporary interstate transfer provision to allow temporary transfers for all lawful purposes rather than just for "sporting purposes."
05.19.2017	Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced the creation of the Speaker's Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs. The Task Force is a bipartisan group of lawmakers focused on studying the proper balance of power between federal, state, tribal and local governments. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) was appointed as Chairman of the Task Force and issued the following statement: "Speaker Ryan has done something unique. He is looking outside of Washington for answers. I thank the Speaker for the opportunity to chair this Task Force. "The solutions to our nation's problems are found in the creativity of state, local, and tribal governments, all of whom are closer to the people than Washington bureaucrats. Working with these leaders will produce bipartisan solutions and greater coordination to improve the lives of the American people." Mission: 1. Partner with states, tribes, and local governments to restore the proper balance of power among governments 2. Provide a forum for states, cities, and counties to showcase their innovation and creativity in solving public policy problems 3. Examine the effects of federal rules and regulations on state and local partners 4. Develop proposals to partner with and empower states, tribes, local governments, private institutions, families and individuals 5. Examine the extent to which the burdens shared among states, tribes and local governments may be re-allocated to improve the quality of life in all communities
05.09.2017	On April 26, 2017 President Trump signed an Executive Order on the Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act. This week Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke visited Utah to tour the Bears Ears National Monument and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Following a tour of the Bears Ears region with the Secretary, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered the following statement: "I thank Secretary Zinke for coming to Utah to finally listen to the local voices. The prior Administration may have visited Bears Ears but, contrary to recent comments, had no part in the establishing of the Monument. The former Department admitted they were not part of the process, and that the White House acted alone and without local input. This President has done it the right way by ordering the Interior Department to review the process and listen to the local voices. "The Bears Ears Monument is only a symptom of something much greater. The real problem lies in the 111-year-old Antiquities Act. The Act must be modernized. "I am happy to have had Secretary Zinke tour these lands and more importantly, to have heard from the local people. I look forward to his recommendation to the President regarding Utah's Monuments, and all the Monuments he will review nationwide. I am confident the Secretary understands there must be legislative reform to the underlying problem, the Antiquities Act."
05.04.2017	The U.S. House of representatives has voted to pass the American Health Care Act (AHCA). Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement after voting in favor of the measure: "The problem with Obamacare is that it has raised premiums significantly, and it has caused people to have their workhours slashed and even lose their jobs. Americans have been either forced into a government program or penalized with a fine. Those who became newly insured were pushed into a plan that was doomed to fail. The passage of today's healthcare reform bill is the first step to allow people to have choices that meet their needs, not forced into what the government demands. I understand the pains of Obamacare first hand. As a member of Congress, I too was forced to comply with this mandate. This bill is a significant step forward for all those who seek quality, affordable, and accessible health care." Learn more at PASSTHEBILL.GOP
04.05.2017	Orbital ATK has announced the early production of hardware for its Next Generation Launch system. This program is estimated to create 200 new jobs in Utah, primarily at the company's Promontory, UT location. This new family of Solid Rocket Boosters called the "Castor 300" series, is aimed at lessoning US commercial reliance on Russian rockets. Rep. Rob Bishop released the following statement: "After almost a decade of false starts and unsure policies by the federal government, it is nice to realize the private sector has stepped up with a program that creates Utah jobs and, more importantly, drives space exploration and American self-sufficiency in the years to come. Thanks, Orbital ATK."
02.02.2017	Rep. Rob Bishop UT-01 is leading an effort to clarify the impact of a recent Presidential Memorandum which places a "freeze on the hiring of Federal civilian employees." Civilian depot workers, like the thousands employed at Utah's Ogden Air Logistics Complex, are protected by law* from such freezes. Rep. Bishop, and a bipartisan congressional coalition, have sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis seeking acknowledgment of these legal protections. Rep. Bishop stated, "All federal employees deserve to be treated with clarity and fairness. As the Trump Administration moves forward finding ways to ease the burden on the taxpayer, I will continue in my efforts to ensure Utah's workers enjoy the protections the law provides. President Trump has been clear in his desire to make our military stronger, and Utah is uniquely situated to support that mission. The civilian workers play a critical role in defending our nation." Excerpt from letter: "We respectfully urge you to take quick action to clarify that the current hiring freeze shall not apply to the hiring of defense civilians associated with the military industrial depots … We appreciate the difficult challenges that await you as you begin your tenure as the Secretary of Defense, and wish to express our willingness to work with you in addressing those challenges as we move forward together to support the defense of our nation." * 10 U.S.C. § 2472
09.29.2016	Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced H. J. Res. 100, a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution that would provide states with the authority to repeal any federal rule or regulation if two-thirds of the states are in agreement. Upon introduction of this legislation, Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: "The founding fathers crafted the Constitution to include the concept of checks and balances. Those checks and balances are not simply to provide horizontal protections, but also to ensure there are vertical safeguards between state and federal governments. This amendment halts the erosion of federalism that has chipped away at states' powers for the past five decades. This is a tool for states to use when the executive branch of the federal government goes too far."
08.02.2016	The commander of Air Combat Command, General Herbert J. Carlisle has approved the Air Force's F-35A Lightning II for "Initial Operating Capability" (IOC). This new status qualifies the 388th and 419th Fighter Wings of Utah's Hill Air Force Base as the first operational F-35A Combat Wings in the Air Force. As a senior member of the House Committee on Armed Services, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has repeatedly touted the benefits of Hill Air Force Base as an appropriate home for this fifth generation fighter aircraft. Following the IOC declaration, Rep. Bishop offered the following statement:"Talk to any war fighter who flies the F-35, and they'll tell you it's a game changer. This means America and her allies will continue to have air superiority. When we send men and women into battle, we don't want it to be a fair fight, and this gives us the advantage. The commitment that Washington must make now is to build the number of planes needed, and to do it quickly. Bishop added: Utah is the site of the first bed down because of the strong civilian workforce and the great public support for our military. Hill Air Force Base is the logical place. With the depot operations and the Utah Test and Training Range, we can test, maintain, and fly these planes all in one location. This ensures Hill remains critical to our national defense now and into the future."
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) have formally introduced the Utah Public Lands Initiative (PLI) legislation for consideration by the US House of Representatives. Included in the bill is a revamped 1.4 million acre plan for the Bears Ears region. A partner bill was also introduced to complement the Utah Public Lands Initiative by ensuring land use certainty in seven Utah counties. Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) will sponsor the companion legislation in the Senate. After introducing the PLI legislation, Rep. Bishop released following statement: "The effort of PLI was always to solve problems that have led to acrimony, and to do so by conserving lands worthy of conservation and providing for economic and recreational opportunities for all Utahns. The status quo does not provide that. It's not that the federal government is malicious, but when they own one third of America, it is just too much to effectively manage from Washington. Utah is a public lands state. It has always been, and it always will be. The question is how those public lands are managed. That's where local government has the advantage. PLI takes that premise and builds it to a reality." Rep. Chaffetz said: "In the shared effort to protect and manage Eastern Utah lands, particularly the Bears Ears Region, the Public Lands Initiative offers the most comprehensive, viable and legal path forward. We don't have to settle for a solution that is limited in scope, support, and goodwill. This legislation goes beyond conservation. In the case of Bears Ears, it safeguards access of traditional tribal uses and provides a meaningful seat at the table for tribal interests. Let's give weight to the broad coalition of interests and enable a comprehensive solution to lands disputes that have plagued the West for generations." More info, including the PLI bill text, is available at UtahPLI.com. There you will also find a summary of the bill and key changes, a thorough overview of the Bears Ears region, maps depicting the involved lands, and a listing of supportive statements from various organizations and individuals. Recently, Reps. Bishop & Chaffetz and Sens. Orrin Hatch & Mike Lee sent a letter to Interior Department Secretary Sally Jewell highlighting the legislative strategy and next steps for PLI.
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON – House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) has appointed Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) to serve as a lead member of the Conference Committee assigned to negotiate a final version of National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Ryan said in a statement, "This legislation gives our military the tools and the funding it needs to do its job and keep America safe." As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Bishop will participate in negotiations aimed at reconciling the differences in the House and Senate versions of this year's NDAA. After being selected by Speaker Ryan for this assignment, Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: "The National Defense Authorization Act is how the military funds its programs, service members, civilian workforce, as well as establishes future military policies. It also includes issues specifically important in Utah by dealing with things like Hill Air Force Base, the F-35, the civilian workforce, and the Utah Test and Training Range. These issues will need to be supported and defended in the conference bill. My assignment is to be involved in that process and defend all the good things we got for the military and Utah in the House version." Selected lawmakers from the House and Senate Armed Services Committees will gather Wednesday, July 13th for the first Conference Meeting to reconcile the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
07.08.2016	Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) sent a JOINT LETTER to Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. The letter outlines the delegation's legislative strategy and next steps for the Utah Public Lands Initiative (PLI). The steps include meetings, hearings and formal introduction of the bill before the House of Representatives goes into the July/August District Work Period. In closing the letter, the Utah delegation members stated: "Legislation ensures local participation and guarantees a balanced product. The delegation, local elected officials, and many local tribal organizations remain unified in our opposition to the unilateral use of the Antiquities Act in Utah. We look forward to working together."
04.28.2016	The House Armed Services Committee passed H.R. 4909, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, by a vote of 60-2. After more than 16 hours of deliberation, the committee voted at about 2:30 AM Thursday the 28th of April. Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) is a senior member of the Committee and voted in favor of the annual bill. Following the vote, Rep. Bishop offered the following statement:"In this year's annual vote, I have stood with my fellow members of the Armed Services Committee and voted to pass the NDAA. As Members of the US Congress, we have sworn to defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies. Funding the military is one of the ways Congress is able to fulfill its duty to provide for the common defense." Rep. Bishop presented numerous amendments during the deliberations. All of his proposals received a favorable vote by the committee and will be included in the bill as it heads to the House floor for further consideration. Rep. Bishop stated the following after the successful passage of his proposed amendments: "As a fan of baseball, I can say it feels good to be batting 1000. My amendments will create more jobs in Northern Utah. I'm happy we're are one step closer to granting greater flexibility and capability to the servicemen and women who sharpen their skills at the Utah Test and Training Range. It is also great to see progress towards granting the military the ability to manage training lands, and not be beholden to the BLM to drain their time and resources with meaningless reviews and bureaucratic hurdles." Rep. Bishop led an effort to include language regarding the Greater Sage Grouse in this year's NDAA. The section would give states priority and allow state plans to address the issue of Sage Grouse populations, while sparing the military from interference by the President's administration. An amendment to strike this language from the NDAA was defeated by a vote of the full committee.
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) is the chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, and has released discussion draft legislation on Puerto Rico's economic crisis. Recently a Virginia-based special interest group has been airing radio ads making claims against the Chairman. Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: "The claims in the ads are false. The purpose of the bill is to create a board to help fix the financial house in Puerto Rico without harming taxpayers. There will be no bailout, no bankruptcy, no super chapter 9! These issues were eliminated before we started working on a draft, therefore any reference to them now is a scare tactic. The House will never vote on a bill that sends taxpayer money to Puerto Rico to cover its debts. Puerto Rico is not a state and any program dealing with it, or any territory, will not impact, nor set precedents for, states or municipalities. At the end of the day, we will have a good bill that helps Puerto Rico and protects all taxpayers." NOTE: The House Committee on Natural Resources has legislative jurisdiction over all matters regarding insular areas of the United States. This includes legislation relating to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.CLICK HERE for more information.
01.20.2016	SALT LAKE CITY – In a press conference held in the Gold Room of the Utah State Capitol, Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) released a discussion draft of the Utah Public Lands Initiative Act. Utah Governor Gary Herbert participated in the January 20th event. Reps. Bishop and Chaffetz also announced the website UtahPLI.com where the public and media may access the PLI discussion draft, maps, and a section-by-section description of the potential legislation. Senator Mike Lee will sponsor the companion legislation in the Senate. Rep. Rob Bishop offered the following statement: "The release of this draft represents the culmination of years of our effort to listen to people. This is a discussion draft, which provides another opportunity for positive ideas. Our goal has always stayed constant. We will conserve areas worthy of conservation. We will guarantee outdoor recreation for all Utahns. We will enhance economic development to fund Utah schools and create good jobs. We will provide certainty by ending the litigation and mindless debates. That certainty will allow everyone to plan for the future without outside groups imposing their misguided will." Rep. Jason Chaffetz said, "PLI will enhance local land management and provide immediate certainty to eastern Utah communities. This locally driven process has allowed stakeholders to come to the table, engage in conversations, and offer solutions that make the land management system work better for eastern Utah. We've crafted a needed balance between conservation and economic development and I look forward to moving this bill forward." Governor Gary Herbert issued the following statement: "There is no doubt Utah stands to gain directly and immediately under the Public Land Initiative," Gov. Herbert said. "I am supportive of this inclusive, bottom-up approach that moves us in the right direction. While the initiative is not perfect, as no true compromise is, it finds a way to give the state greater control over the use of Utah lands." Complete text of the discussion draft available at UtahPLI.com
01.07.2016	Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted in favor of HR 3762, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. Following the vote, Rep. Bishop released the following statement:"I voted against the original Obamacare bill because it was bad policy. I argued for free market alternatives that were available at the time, but then-speaker Pelosi refused to allow them to be discussed. I've cast over 50 votes to change, modify, or repeal Obamacare. Our vote today is the best effort to force the president, if he vetoes it, to at least recognize that the so-called Affordable Care Act is unaffordable and ineffective. As a member of congress, forced to enroll in Obamacare, my first-hand experience validates that assessment."
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Rep. Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement after President Obama's announcement of various executive actions on gun control: "The President is out of touch. He is exploiting tragedy for political gain. His proposals would not have prevented the recent tragedies our nation has endured. His requirements will not make the country safer. Criminals, not the countless citizens who obey the law, should be punished for their crimes. Enforcement of our current laws is how we keep guns out of the hands of bad guys, and until this administration faces reality, no amount of pageantry will protect us."
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement after the House passed the Omnibus Appropriations Act for FY2016: "This bill signals the end of the era of defense cuts. For too long, the Obama administration has weakened the US military by withholding the necessary funding to properly defend the nation. This bill is good for troops, their families, and the civilian workers who support them. The agreement finally starts the process of rebuilding the military. Rep. Bishop added:"While this does contain much good, it also has shortcomings. House leadership has acknowledged these issues and they are particularly aware of the impacts on western priorities. I am confident that in the coming months, those shortcomings will be addressed and made right. The problem with the bill is what it could have been and what it should have been. Western issues that improve our lives should NOT be held hostage by Democrats in the House and Senate. These issues were eliminated with the threat of a government shutdown for political reasons."
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON -- Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in favor of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act. The bill makes a number of tax provisions permanent and grants predictability, clarity, and certainty to individuals, families, and job creators. Rep. Bishop offered the following statement after the vote:"This bill reins in the overreaching IRS, and allows the American tax-payer more peace of mind. People can now plan for their futures because of the certainty this tax plan provides. This legislation also represents a victory against the Obamacare Medical Device Tax. This tax was wrong from the beginning. It hurts those who are most in need of our help. Without relief from this tax, Utah jobs would be lost. This fair and simple tax code will create jobs, unchain small businesses, and lead to more money in the pockets of families."
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources Rob Bishop (R-UT) made the following statement following the announcement that Speaker John Boehner will resign at the end of October. "Speaker Boehner has always been an honest person who is extremely helpful on western issues. Unlike some former Speakers, he honored the House and allowed it to do its will, even if he lost on an issue. In sharp contrast to his predecessor, he allowed more votes and opened up more debate. He respected the institution enough to lose a vote on the floor. I have to respect this approach to the speakership."
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) welcomed the formal commencement of F-35 operations at Hill Air Force Base. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, Bishop has played a crucial role in bringing this 5th generation combat aircraft to Utah. Rep. Bishop offered the following statement: "The F-35 is critical to our national defense. The placement of the first operational F-35 squadrons for the Air Force at Hill is a major statement on the value of the base, and the amazing community that surrounds it. Not only will this create more jobs in the area, but those jobs will be more secure. The F-35 brings the next generations of American combat airpower to Hill and guarantees that our base and its mission are here to stay."
10.15.2015	In light of the announcement of a proposal by The Bears Ears Inter-Tribal Coalition, members of Utah's federal delegation are reiterating their commitment to collaboration as public lands legislation is being crafted. Senators Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee and Representatives Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) issued the following joint statement:"The Bears Ears Inter-Tribal Coalition is an important stakeholder in the Public Lands Initiative. The Coalition represents many Native American voices that have an interest in how lands in San Juan County are managed. While many Native Americans who live in Utah oppose the Coalition's proposal, we welcome the input and recommendations nonetheless. Our offices have now received over 65 detailed proposals from various stakeholder groups regarding land management in eastern Utah. We remain committed to reviewing each proposal and producing a final PLI bill that is balanced and broadly supported."
09.22.2015	The US Fish and Wildlife service announced that the Greater Sage Grouse does not warrant specific protection under the Endangered Species Act for only the next 5 years. Representative Rob Bishop offers the following statement:"This announcement changes nothing. It was an act of fundamental dishonesty. The Sage Grouse problem is no better solved today than it was yesterday before this announcement. Despite the Administration's decision, as long as the BLM is able to impose its will on the state of Utah by changing its land management plans as if the bird were listed, defense readiness will suffer. Large tracts of military test and training ranges will be off limits if the Administration has its way. Language I included in NDAA is now more vital than ever. It allows state plans that protect the Sage Grouse to go into effect, and prohibits the BLM from gaining greater control over land than they already have. Using effective state plans rather than a federal lands plan is better for the state. Without this language the federal government will continue to abuse the states, shortchange the taxpayer and weaken the military." Under the State of Utah's plan, there was a 20% increase in the number of Sage Grouse last year over the year prior. In June, the Interior Department revealed a land-use plan for the Sage Grouse that would usurp all state efforts to bolster the bird populations.
09.18.2015	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement today after voting in favor H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, which would cut off federal funding for Planned Parenthood for one year."I've always opposed federal dollars going to Planned Parenthood, so I'm proud of the House taking a stand to cut off these taxpayer funds. The recent revelations from the undercover videos and the absolute disregard for human life shown in them should be troubling to all of us. It's high time to cut off these funds and let the House investigations proceed." Earlier this year, undercover videos created by the Center for Medical Progress showed high level staff from Planned Parenthood reportedly discussing the sale of body parts from aborted fetuses. The House Committees on Energy and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform are investigating questions raised by the videos. Today's House bill prohibits any federal funds from being authorized or appropriated for one-year, for any purpose, to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., or any affiliate or clinic of that organization, unless such entities certify that those affiliates and clinics will not perform, and will not provide any funds to any other entity that performs an abortion during such period. The bill provides an exception for an abortion if the pregnancy is the result of rape, incest, or in the case where a woman suffers from a physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by a physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is performed, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself.
09.11.2015	Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement following his NO vote on H.R. 3461. This vote asserts Rep. Bishop's disapproval of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action relating to the nuclear program of Iran, or ‘The Iran Deal.' "The Iran Deal is a bad deal and increases, not decreases, the likelihood of war in that area. That's why I cast a NO vote on the deal and a YES vote on maintaining the sanctions that were working. This is a deal that was struck between Iran, a few European nations, and the US. It excluded Middle-Eastern Sunni nations. We should renegotiate and include those nations. Otherwise I fear we hand over a tremendous propaganda coup to ISIS." Rep. Bishop voted YEA on H.R. 3640, which would suspend the authority of the President to waive or reduce economic sanctions on Iran. Rep. Bishop stated the following regarding these sanctions:"I'm concerned that this deal could do much to embolden the threat of terror in the Middle East and the United States. The potential lifting of sanctions frees up $150 billion for Iran to spend on further arming terrorist organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah." On September 10th 2015 Rep. Bishop voted YEA on H. Res. 411. The resolution asserts that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 by failing to disclose details of the secretive side deals that are part of this agreement.
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rob Bishop joined with the other members of Utah's federal delegation in sending a letter to the Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. In the letter, the delegation informs Secretary Jewell that the creation of a National Monument in Utah would be detrimental to the Public Lands Initiative which enjoys wide support from local leaders and stakeholders. The letter also updates Secretary Jewell on an important land management vote taken by the San Juan County Commission. The Commission has been an active participant in the Public Lands Initiative. CLICK HERE to read the letter.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement following the Obama Administration's announcement of an agreement with Iran:"In March of this year I joined with 366 other members of Congress – on both sides of the aisle – to tell President Obama what we expected from these negotiations with Iran. Based on early reviews, I'm afraid this agreement fails to satisfy those demands. I fear that the proposed deal does nothing to prevent Iran from having nuclear weapon capabilities. As stated in our letter, ‘Iran's record of clandestine activity and intransigence prevents any trust in Iran.' "I'm concerned that this deal could do much to embolden the threat of terror in the Middle East and the United States. The potential lifting of sanctions frees up $150 billion for Iran to spend on further arming terrorist organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah. In addition, no Middle-Eastern Sunni nations were represented in these negotiations. ISIS forces can use this fact to foster potential support among Sunnis who may be leery of the U.S. making deals with a Shia Iran. "This deal threatens the safety of America and her allies. A US President should be in the business of protecting the US, not simply seeking to secure a faux legacy built on bad deals."
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Utah Congressmen Rob Bishop and Jason Chaffetz responded to President Obama's impending use of the Antiquities Act in Lincoln County and Nye County Nevada to create the 700,000-acre Basin and Range National Monument. In making this announcement, the President will unilaterally wipe away a locally developed land plan without any public involvement or regard for the legislative process. Rep. Bishop: "Following the example of Jimmy Carter, the Obama Administration is using and abusing the Antiquities Act as a political weapon. The worst part is that the act doesn't guarantee public input. In fact, the vast majority of monuments that have been created through the Antiquities Act were created with no public input whatsoever. The people in the counties deserve the right to continue their work on locally driven land initiatives without threats like these hanging over their heads."Rep. Chaffetz: "Presidents should be barred from using the Antiquities Act within a county that has enacted a land management plan. The Congressional process guarantees public involvement and ensures that all local interests are considered. To avoid the debacle that is now Lincoln County, any county participating in a local planning process should demand such an exemption be included in the final bill, I know that I will." Lincoln County, Nevada went through an exhaustive, locally-driven land planning process in 2004 that resulted in the creation of 700,000 acres of wilderness (P.L. 108-424). During floor debate at the time, Senator Harry Reid lauded the bill and said it was a "compromise that is fair, forward-looking and provides for conservation, recreation, and development in Lincoln County and for southern Nevada." In describing the compromise, Sen. Reid went on to say, "We fully expect some criticism for what the bill does not do. For example, it does not designate the more than 2.5 million acres that the Nevada Wilderness Coalition advocates in Lincoln County. Nor does the bill release all the wilderness study areas in Lincoln County as others would advocate." With today's announcement, the locally developed compromise will be disregarded for a President who never held a single meeting within the Lincoln County community. Additional Background on the Basin and Range National Monument: Legislative Bailout • Legislation to protect the area included in the new monument has garnered little support in the House and Senate. • A Member of Congress that does not even represent the area introduced the House bill while the Senate bill does not have a single cosponsor. • By comparison, every single Nevada lands bill that was enacted in 2014 had bipartisan support. Land Protection Overkill • Proponents of the monument say land protections are needed to protect the manmade art formation known as "The City". • While The City is an impressive land-art formation unlike any other, its size is roughly comparable to the National Mall in Washington, D.C. • An expansive boundary of the size and scope of the Basin and Range National Monument is not needed to protect an area as small as The City.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON – After the Supreme Court released its 5-4 decision in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges, and it was held that the states are not empowered to decide for themselves on the issue of marriage, Rep. Rob Bishop issued the following statement: "The decision from the Supreme Court was wrong and it was made the wrong way. As is the case in countless issues of governance, states are so-often better suited to act on behalf of the people. The US Constitution makes no mention of marriage and therefore the matter should have been left to the states. Chief Justice Roberts said it best when he wrote in his dissent, ‘If you are among the many Americans—of whatever sexual orientation—who favor expanding same-sex marriage, by all means celebrate today's decision … But do not celebrate the Constitution. It had nothing to do with it.'" Rep. Bishop added, "If the consequences of this decision present a threat of religious liberties, I stand ready to fight for the people's right to practice their faith without government interference."
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) has introduced H.R. 2710, the Lawful Purpose and Self-Defense Act of 2015. This bill will reign in the Obama Administration and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). The ATF has attempted to ban ammunition used in the popular AR-15 rifle. The bill will eliminate the ATF's illegitimate authority to prohibit this .223 caliber ammunition. This legislation will also eliminate ambiguity in current code that could allow the ATF and the Administration to restrict certain types of shotguns and shotgun shells that are used for self-defense. Bishop offered the following statement: "The founding fathers recognized that the right to bear arms is fundamentally tied to self-defense. This is as true today as it was over two centuries ago when the Bill of Rights was ratified. The ATF has exploited vagaries present in federal gun law to chip away at basic rights. This legislation will slap the over-reaching hand of the federal government and restore some of the freedoms our grandparents enjoyed." On March 4, 2015, 238 members of congress (including Rep. Bishop) sent a letter to ATF Director B. Todd Jones to express serious concerns with the "Framework" proposal; because those concerns were not met with a satisfactory reply and permanent solution, Bishop is now sponsoring the Lawful Purpose and Self-Defense Act of 2015 to ensure the Administration and the ATF are unable to interfere with Second Amendment rights. In addition to the 50 co-sponsors of the bill, various organizations have also expressed full support for the Lawful Purpose and Self-Defense Act of 2015. "On behalf of the NRA's five-million members, I want to thank Representative Bishop for his leadership in protecting our Second Amendment rights. Rob Bishop understands this issue is about freedom and protecting us from government overreach and intrusion." – Chris W. Cox, Executive Director for NRA-ILA
05.28.2015	WASHINGTON— Today, Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) responded to the Obama Administration's announcement of federal land use plans for the Greater Sage Grouse. "This is just flat out wrong. If the Administration really cares about the bird they will adopt the state plans as they originally said they would. The state plans work. This proposal is only about controlling land, not saving the bird. "Our Committee has held hearings on how the federal agencies are not working with the states. When I became Chairman I held high hopes that this Administration would try to be more cooperative. This announcement is not cooperation; it is not collaboration, and it is not a solution. It is just wrong. "I call on this Administration to work with the states and Congress. Together, we can solve this problem. Without working together, the Sage Grouse suffers and we fail."
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) feels the time for the Export-Import Bank has come to an end. The 81-year-old government corporation was organized by Executive Order and is currently operating under a charter that is set to expire on June 30th 2015. Rep. Bishop offered the following statement regarding reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank:"While the intent of the Export-Import Bank decades ago may have been a good one, I believe it has drifted too far off course and has missed opportunities to reform, and so the time has come to let its authorization expire. The sun has set on the utility of the bank and the rationale being presented to support it is based on antiquated arguments. The Government is not better than the free market in guiding the economy towards prosperity and so I'm concerned about the bank's interference in what should primarily be private business decisions and transactions. Plus, there is much the Ex-Im Bank could have done to clean up its act and be more transparent. While we must do what we can to ensure a fair playing field for American businesses, I don't feel the bank is part of that solution. If a bill emerges from the Financial Services Committee that reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank, I plan to oppose it."
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rob Bishop, Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, held an oversight hearing titled, "Empowering State Management of Greater Sage Grouse." Chairman Bishop said the following during his opening remarks:"Given the chance, states could prevent the need for a federal listing, and prevent endless fights to de-list species that recover. States have already proven to be laboratories where innovative policy-makers can experiment to develop more effective policies. The problem with the federal one-size-fits-all approach is that it's never actually been compared to anything else." Ms. Kathleen Clarke was the Director of the Bureau of Land Management from 2001 to 2006 and is currently the Director of the Utah Public Lands Policy Coordinating Office. Ms. Clarke served as a witness at today's hearing and stated the following during her testimony: "The State of Utah's Conservation Plan provides a solid framework for assessing the needs of the birds within the State. Utah is not a vast sea of sagebrush, such as found in Wyoming or the Great Basin. The most important conservation strategies address the major threats to the species in Utah – wildfire and the associated invasion of undesirable grass, and the encroachment of conifer trees into the sagebrush. These natural events constitute 97% of the threat to the species in Utah. Human activities, such as energy development and exurban development, are not major threats, representing only 3% of the threat. Utah's sage-grouse conservation strategies are completely based upon the best available science developed over the past 20 years, and the most robust data." Various other witnesses testified on the utility of state conservation strategies, and how a federal endangered listing and rigid federal land management decisions could undermine these efforts. For more information on the hearing, including witness testimony, please visit the website.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON— Today the House voted on H.R. 2029 which allows for the funding of a hangar and a flight simulator for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Hill Air Force Base. This bill also calls for the funding of storage facilities to safely house munitions and other critical items at the base. The passage of this bill will provide $38.4 million for HAFB. Representative Rob Bishop offered the following statement: "A partnership has existed between the Air Force and the state of Utah that has mutually benefited U.S. national security and the Utah community for decades. This construction funding will enhance the crucial work being done at Hill and it will create numerous jobs for both active duty military members and civilians. I am proud of Hill's 388th Fighter Wing and the Air Force Reserve's 419th Fighter Wing for being at the forefront of our nation's air defense. I will continue to support any measures that support Hill Air Force Base's standing as a leader in military readiness."
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON— The House Armed Services Committee today passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2016 by a vote of 60-2. Details of the bill can be found here. The committee deliberated throughout the evening Wednesday and cast its vote this morning at approximately 4:30 AM EDT. Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), a senior Member of the Committee, voted in favor of the annual defense bill and said the following afterward: "I am proud of my colleagues in the Armed Services Committee for passing this bill. The task of providing for the common defense is one of paramount importance. It is important that we pass the NDAA each year as it allows the armed services to provide security for our nation. I am happy to have language included in the bill that will protect the Utah Test and Training Range, Dugway Proving Ground, the Tooele Army Depot, and other lands used for military training, from intrusion by the Obama Administration through the dubious use of the Endangered Species Act." Rep. Bishop also included language in the bill that provides protections for Utah's Depot Workers."Hill workers unfortunately remember when they were illegally furloughed by the Obama Administration." Rep. Bishop said. " I offered language to help ensure that their jobs are not threatened again by the Administration. This will ensure that any future worker reductions are based on workload and not any other factors so workers can continue to do what they do best in supporting the warfighter without worry of being targeted for illegal furloughs or job cuts." The legislation also authorizes full funding for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Hill AFB has previously been identified as the OPS 1 location for the new fighter jet starting in September of this year."The F-35 is critical to our national defense and Hill is critical to the F-35. I'm proud of the role Hill is playing with this next generation of fighter and I'm grateful our defense bill fully funds this important program."
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON— In an effort to save the Department of Defense millions of dollars and protect critical military training facilities throughout the western United States, Rep. Rob Bishop has proposed an amendment to the annual defense bill that would prohibit the Obama Administration from declaring the Sage Grouse an endangered species. Such a designation would inhibit the military's ability to train on some vital lands thus negatively impacting troop readiness. Rep. Bishop's amendment was challenged before the full body of the House Armed Services Committee by Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-Mass.). Her challenge was defeated by a significant margin. The language introduced by Rep. Bishop will remain a part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which will soon be voted on by the full US House of Representatives. The congressman issued the following statement following today's committee action: "This amendment, which balances conservation with national security, is basically about two things – military readiness and empowering the states. There is ample evidence that federal management of sage grouse populations is already hurting our military's ability to adequately train on and use critical areas in the west. This would only get worse with a federal endangered species designation and it would hamper the way our fighting men and women prepare to defend our country. There are also multiple examples already of state plans which are effectively managing and conserving sage grouse populations. We need to give time for these state plans, orchestrated by folks closest to the land and to the issue at hand, to be fully implemented and to accomplish their goal of protecting this bird."
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON— The House voted today to repeal the Death Tax. Congressman Rob Bishop was a co-sponsor of this bill and voted in favor of its passage today. Congressman Bishop issued the following statement regarding the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. "I voted to repeal the death tax today because it is an immoral double taxation. It hits grieving families at the most tragic of times. One should not be required to pay a tax for dying. The death tax can force a farmer to sell land, equipment and property simply to pay the government after a loved one's death. While republicans are trying to do away with this unfair tax, President Obama is trying to increase it. The death tax hurts small business, small companies and small farmers. A family should be allowed to mourn when they lose a loved one, not forced to fill out another tax form."
04.15.2015	"My thoughts and prayers are with the Bangerter family at this time of loss. Norm's service to the state of Utah is unparalleled. He made hard decisions when it mattered most and he set a strong example of wise action in the face of opposition. It was a great privilege to serve as a state legislator during his tenure as governor. He will be missed."
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON— Late last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015. The legislation averts a shutdown of the federal government and limits the budget of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through February 2015. The short-term funding of DHS prevents long-term implementation of the President's amnesty policy, allowing the House and Senate to address the executive order in the new Congress. Additionally, it addresses key policies on matters including the Department of Interior's Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, the listing of the greater sage grouse as an endangered or threatened species, and the construction of architect Frank Gehry's controversial design for the Eisenhower Memorial. House Natural Resources Chairman-elect Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in response to the legislation: "There are some significant gains for western and rural states in this legislation and I am especially pleased that we have established safeguards to limit long-term actions that may be taken toward implementation of the President's amnesty executive order. For states like Utah, it is especially important that this bill gives the Fish and Wildlife Service additional time to evaluate state progress on management and conservation of the greater sage grouse. States like Utah are making progress every day to collaborate with local communities and public land users to protect the species. "I am also pleased that PILT will continue in FY2015 for counties surrounded by public lands. The compensation they receive to address the lack of tax revenue generated from federal land helps fund important community infrastructure that is typically funded through property taxes and other public uses. A similar program that funds communities in areas with National Forests known as the Secure Rural Schools program was not included in this legislation. I remain committed to ensuring SRS is addressed early in the 114th Congress. "The nature of these bicameral and bipartisan packages is that they're extremely dynamic and far from perfect. Taxpayer dollars are a finite resource that should be appropriated and spent with utmost scrutiny and oversight. This is why I remain concerned about the status of the Eisenhower Memorial project and architect Frank Gehry's controversial design. Taxpayers have bankrolled the Eisenhower Memorial Commission and its staff, Gehry's architectural firm, and the widely unpopular design, for over a decade. After 14 years, there is little to show for the work and only a rough accounting of where the money was spent. I am pleased that this bill includes some safeguards to help get the project back on the right track toward an appropriate and fitting tribute to one of our nation's greatest leaders," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015: · Delays the Fish and Wildlife Service's action and decision on whether or not the greater sage grouse should be listed as an endangered or threatened species to September 2015 · Provides $372,000,000 to the U.S. Department of Interior for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes Program. *This is in addition to the $70 million provided in the National Defense Authorization Act · Includes safeguards to protect taxpayers from having to bankroll the estimated $140 million for construction of Frank Gehry's proposed design · Prohibits the IRS from unfairly targeting Americans based on their personal, political, or professional connections · Includes no funding for Race to the Top · Includes no new funding for Obamacare
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON—House Natural Resources Committee Chairman-elect Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in support of many of the natural resources provisions included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). "The natural resources provisions included in the NDAA bring resolution to multi-year legislative efforts that seek to establish new opportunities for energy production, mineral development, job creation, grazing, recreation, conservation, and other secondary economic benefits. They have unnecessarily languished in the Senate for two years as a result of the Senate's inaction on most natural resources bills. For many western states like Utah, jobs, education, and economic development depend upon the multiple use of our lands. As a westerner, I can attest to the inherent need for these policies to become law. The nature of a compromise is that everyone gets something, but nobody gets everything they want. Conservation can be utilized as currency and in this bill, it enabled us to convey over 100,000 acres out of the federal estate and bring economic development, jobs, and education funding to states that need it most." Congressman Bishop cited the following as key natural resources provisions included in the NDAA: CONVEYING LAND OUT OF FEDERAL OWNERSHIP, JOB CREATION, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT · Designates 245,000 acres of wilderness, which have strong local and Congressional support, are balanced with conveyances of land out of the federal estate, new opportunities for energy production, mineral development, grazing, recreation, and economic development for public lands states. In addition, nearly half of the wilderness acres are already managed by the federal government as if it were wilderness due to status as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA) or roadless area · Releases 26,000 acres of current wilderness study areas to multiple use Conveys 110,000 acres of land out of federal ownership for economic and community development 1,518 acres of federal land to the Olgoonik Corporation and Alaska Native-owned village corporation 70,075 acres of federal land to Sealaska, an Alaska Native corporation 31 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land conveyed to Idaho County, Idaho for a shooting range 10,000 acres of land managed by the BLM to the City of Yerington, Nevada to facilitate the Nevada Copper operation at Pumpkin Hollow which is projected to produce more than 800 construction and mining jobs. A University of Nevada Cooperative Extension study noted the mining operation should also create almost 4,400 indirect jobs in Northern Nevada. 1,329 acres of land managed the BLM to the city of Carlin, Nevada Federal land and a reversionary interest managed by BLM to Storey County, Nevada 275 acres of land managed by the BLM to Elko County, Nevada for a motocross park 400 acres of federal land to the Secretary of the Navy to develop new housing at Naval Air Station Fallon 19 acres of federal land to a private land owner in San Juan County, NM 80 acres of National Forest Service land to Brigham Young University for Y Mountain 100 acres of National Forest Service Land to Fruit Heights, Utah for a much-needed community cemetery Two parcels conveyed by the Department of Energy to the State of Washington Federal land conveyed by the Department of Agriculture land at Ranch A to the State of Wyoming Authorization of a land exchange between the U.S. Geological Survey and School District 318 in Minnesota · Enhances of programs to raise private funding for National Parks, such as donor recognition programs and the issuance of a commemorative coin to recognize the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service in 2016 EXPANSION OF MULTIPLE-USE ON FEDERAL LANDS Amends the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPLMA) to grant federal land management agencies with needed authorities to renew and process grazing permits and leases on more than 200 million acres of public rangeland Authorizes the Department of Interior to hold live internet auctions for onshore oil and gas lease sales Designates a limited number of new park units that have strong local support Updates the fee schedule and rates for recreational cabins so that owners are not forced to tear down cabins that reside within national forests EXPANSION OF ENERGY AND MINERAL PRODUCTION, JOB CREATION · Extends and expands the successful BLM permit streamlining pilot project. The program will be extended nationwide to improve the efficiency of the approval process, which will ultimately increase oil and gas production from federal lands; Expanding the previous pilot project will address permitting delays that have held up energy production and slowed the growth of jobs on federal lands · Facilitates several proposed mineral development projects, including the third-largest undeveloped copper resource in the world Resolution Copper in Arizona will lead to: 3,000 construction jobs over a six-to-ten year period. Over 3,700 high-paying jobs once the mine is fully operational. A total economic impact on the state of Arizona estimated over $61.4 billion, over $1 billion per year. Nearly $20 billion in federal, state, county and local tax revenue. · Conveys federal land to the Nevada Copper operation at Pumpkin Hollow will produce more than 800 construction and mining jobs. A University of Nevada Cooperative Extension study noted the mining operation should also create almost 4,400 indirect jobs in Northern Nevada. · Approves a swap of coal mineral rights between the federal government, a private mineral rights holder, and Montana's Northern Cheyenne Tribe consolidates land into trust in the Northern Cheyenne Reservation, transfer into trust tribally owned sacred lands, and settle claims brought by the Tribe against the United States PROTECTS TRIBAL INTERESTS Settles Northern Cheyenne's claims against the federal government for failing to take the subsurface estate under its reservation into trust This bill fixes a mistake made in 1900, when the government expanded the Northern Cheyenne reservation but failed to acquire the underlying minerals Settles land claims for the Sealaska Native Corp Conveys federal property to an Alaska Native village for economic development Provides access and protection for cultural resources and traditional uses at Oak Flat and Apache Leap in Superior, Arizona PROTECTS PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS Ensures private property interests are fully protected in all special land designations Protects all private activities taking place outside of the special land designations Ensures no private property can be condemned, and prevents acquisitions through eminent domain Prohibits buffer zones and protective perimeters
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON— The Obama Administration announced this week that Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Deputy Director Steve Ellis will visit the Browns Canyon area of Colorado on Saturday, December 06, 2014. House Natural Resources Committee Chairman-elect Rob Bishop (UT-01) raised concerns that this visit may signal the Administration's intention to use the controversial Antiquities Act to create a new national monument, usurping the power of the legislative process, and subsequently depriving Coloradans of the opportunity to have their voices heard. "The President's use of the Antiquities Act would unjustly deprive the communities surrounding Browns Canyon of the opportunity to debate the proposed monument through the open legislative process. I hope Chief Tidwell and Deputy Director Ellis take this into consideration during their visit," said Bishop. Nearly 22,000 acres located within this region are the subject of legislation introduced by Colorado Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet that would establish a new national monument. Despite a Democrat majority in the Senate, the two Democrat Senators have been unsuccessful in their efforts to gain enough support to move the bill. As a result, they have appealed to President Obama to designate the new national monument by executive fiat using the Antiquities Act. "The inability of two Democrat Senators to garner support for this initiative despite a Democrat majority is hardly justification for robbing Coloradans of the opportunity to have their voices heard. They have referred to the term ‘gridlock' when explaining why their bill has languished but evidence suggests there are other issues at fault. Lack of support is certainly one of them," Bishop added. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced legislation in the 113th Congress that would require the application of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) whenever the Antiquities Act is used by the President to establish a new national monument greater than 5,000 acres. Application of NEPA would ensure that the American people have an opportunity to participate in the national monument designation process.
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives and U.S. Senate released the final draft of the fiscal year (FY) 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) served as a House negotiator, working with Senate counterparts on some of the key terms of the agreement. Among other things, the FY2015 legislation includes additional funding for our nation's military depots, prevents the transfer of Apache helicopters from the National Guard to the Army, includes funding to support the Tomahawk Cruise Missile, and includes a one year prohibition on Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proceedings. "This bill does some good things for our national defense capabilities. However, the nature of a negotiation is that compromises have to be made and, in the end, nobody walks away completely satisfied," said Congressman Bishop. "I am especially pleased that this legislation includes funding for our nation's Depots, like the Ogden Air Logistics Complex, which provides key maintenance and logistical support for our nation's warfighter and other weapon systems," said Congressman Bishop.
12.02.2014	WASHINGTON--U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Chris Stewart (UT-02) have introduced legislation in the Senate and House, respectively, that would transfer 100 acres of land currently owned by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to the city of Fruit Heights in Davis County. The land will be used as a cemetery for the city. Fruit Heights currently has an agreement with neighboring Kaysville for burials, however due to the significant population growth the region has seen, Fruit Heights has been notified that its residents will soon no longer be able to be interred in the Kaysville cemetery. "This legislation fulfills a basic need for the residents and City of Fruit Heights, as well as the neighboring communities," Hatch said. "I'm going to work with Rob and Chris and ensure this common sense and necessary legislation gets signed into law as soon as possible." "Over 65% of the State of Utah consists of federal land, and therefore there is a finite amount of state and private land available to communities on which they can expand and grow," said Bishop. "This poses unique challenges for communities like Fruit Heights, which currently has no local cemetery and is no longer able to rely on surrounding communities. With no other place to go, this small plot of forest service land is really the only option as they look to address their growing needs." "We are happy to participate in this process and look forward to working with the Forest Service as they do the right thing, and help meet the needs of Fruit Heights city," Stewart added. "We are very pleased with the introduction of this land acquisition legislation that will help Fruit Heights acquire much needed land for a city cemetery and preserve open space on the eastern boundary of our community," said Todd Stevenson, mayor of the City of Fruit Heights. "We recognize that this is just the first step in the process to complete this acquisition for our city, and we look forward to working the members of congress to bring this to fruition. We appreciate the hard work by Senator Hatch and Representatives Bishop and Stewart in supporting this important effort for Fruit Heights City." Hatch introduced similar legislation last Congress but it did not receive a vote.
12.02.2014	WASHINGTON—The Utah State Public Lands Policy Coordinating Office (PLPCO) officially released its report titled "An Analysis of a Transfer of Federal Lands to the State of Utah," which examines whether or not it is feasible for the State of Utah to take control of nearly 31 million acres of federal land. The report, conducted by third party experts from the University of Utah, Utah State University, and Weber State University, determined that the State of Utah is financially capable of assuming all responsibility for the 31 million acres. In addition, the report found that transfer of management from federal to state would likely result in a net economic benefit for the State of Utah. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman-elect of the House Natural Resources Committee issued the following statement in response to the report: "I want to thank the PLPCO and the team of experts who carefully and thoughtfully considered the feasibility of the transfer of federal lands to the State of Utah. The findings of this report confirm that the state is more than capable of taking on the management of these lands. This data will be a helpful resource as we continue to work toward resolving some of the biggest challenges facing public lands policy in the state," said Bishop. In 2012, the Utah State Legislature passed the Transfer of Public Lands Act [H.B. 148], which requires the federal government to transfer approximately 31.2 million acres of federal land to the State of Utah. Following the passage of H.B. 148, the Utah State Legislature passed H.B. 142, which directed the Utah Public Lands Policy Coordinating Office to analyze all economic factors associated with a transfer of federal land to the state. After 18 months of research, the PLPCO and the team of experts who facilitated the study produced a report found here. A summary of the report can be found here.
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON—President Barack Obama's administration has signaled that the President intends to announce today plans to grant some sort of legal status to more than five million people who are currently in the United States illegally. "We are supposed to be a nation of laws, but what the President is doing is an abuse of his authority. Like all Americans, I share a sense of compassion and understanding for families caught in these difficult circumstances, but the President's plan does not fix the problem. He has made it worse. We desperately need a permanent solution, not an imperfect presidential mandate done in isolation. President Obama may think it is acceptable to exceed his own authority through executive action, but our founding fathers established clearly defined powers through the Constitution. The President missed an opportunity to work with Congress and instead has created a toxic atmosphere harming future efforts. Amnesty is not an answer and it sends the wrong message to those who are going through the legitimate immigration process. The first thing to fix is the porous border and that is where our attention should initially be focused," said Congressman Rob Bishop.
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON—House Natural Resources Committee Chairman-elect Rob Bishop (UT-01) today announced the appointment of Jason Knox as Staff Director and Todd Ungerecht as Deputy Staff Director for the 114th Congress. Jason Knox previously worked on the House Natural Resources Committee from 2006 to 2011. Knox then made the transition to the Senate Budget Committee where he handled energy and environmental issues. He most recently served as a Counsel on the House Energy and Commerce Committee under Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06). "Throughout his career, Jason has worked tirelessly to develop and advance strategic policies that improve the way our natural resources are managed and utilized. He shares my commitment to address some of the biggest challenges facing federal land management and natural resources. One of Jason's many qualities and qualifications is his dedication as a public servant and I am confident that his experience and leadership will be instrumental to the committee and its Members," said Chairman-elect Bishop. Todd Ungerecht has served as senior counsel for Natural Resources Chairman Doc Hastings since 2010, focusing most recently on Endangered Species Act oversight and legislation. He previously served as Congressman Hastings' counsel on the House Ethics Committee and as a senior policy advisor for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration during President George W. Bush's administration. "Todd's comprehensive experience as counsel and policy advisor are a valuable resource for the committee. His career demonstrates a clear commitment to some of the most important issues facing our federal lands, waters, and mineral resources. In this new role, Todd will continue to be a leader on key policy issues that impact our diverse and abundant natural resources, both onshore and offshore," said Chairman-elect Bishop.
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON—Today, Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) announced that Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will serve as Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee for the 114th Congress. Congressman Bishop currently serves as Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee. He is recognized by his colleagues in Congress for being a dedicated advocate for public lands and natural resource issues. "I am honored to have been selected to serve in this important new role at the Natural Resources Committee. As Chairman I will work to ensure that our unique and abundant federal resources are properly managed and that a fair balance is reached between conservation and multiple use. Doc Hastings leaves big shoes to fill and I am grateful for all that he has done to advance and address natural resource policies," said Congressman Bishop.
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today joined in support of legislation to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline [H.R. 5682]. "As we look to improve upon and grow the way we transport and develop natural resources here at home and with our allies, there is a clear and present need for the Keystone XL Pipeline. Unnecessary delays in this project can be attributed to political gamesmanship on behalf of the President and Democrats in the Senate. It is my hope that Senator Reid and his democrat colleagues will break away from the President's political playbook by ensuring that Rep. Cassidy's legislation is passed in the Senate and signed into law by the President," said Congressman Bishop.
11.12.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) joined together to announce their opposition to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's decision to list the Gunnison sage grouse as a "Threatened" species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Gunnison sage grouse species is found in Colorado and parts of eastern Utah. In May 2014, the D.C. District Court granted a six-month extension of the deadline for final determination on whether to list the Gunnison sage-grouse under the Endangered Species Act. The Gunnison sage grouse has been the subject of a long-term battle waged by conservation groups wanting to curb use and development of public lands where Gunnison populations can be found. It is widely known that the Gunnison's ESA listing would heavily restrict oil and gas development as well as ranching and recreation on 1.7 million acres of federal land located in Utah and Colorado. Congressman Bishop and Congressman Chaffetz remain concerned that the science used as justification for the listing lacks credibility and that the administration is yet again capitulating to special interest groups. "States, local governments, and public land users are working collaboratively to restore the Gunnison sage grouse populations and progress continues to be made. Restoration of the species is not something that can fully be measured overnight and it's premature to supersede state and local actions with an ESA listing. Based on the federal government's track record of ESA recovery, I'd say that listing this bird is not the panacea. This is yet another case of the federal government thinking it is smarter and more capable than the states and communities, a notion I flatly reject," said Congressman Bishop, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee. "Wildlife management needs to be handled at the state and local level. That's where the rubber meets the road. Local land-users are better equipped to develop management plans that both maintain and improve the health of wildlife and local habitat. It is disappointing that the federal government is undercutting local efforts in San Juan County by imposing this listing that will have a big impact on local communities in southeast Utah," said Congressman Chaffetz, whose district includes San Juan County, where Gunnison sage grouse habitat has been identified.
10.23.2014	Salt Lake City—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert, and Daggett County Commissioners today joined representatives from the conservation, outdoor recreation, and sportsmens' community, to unveil the draft Daggett County lands proposal agreement as part of the broader Utah Public Lands Initiative. Speakers at the event also included Scott Groene- Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, John Andrews- School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration, Paul Spitler-The Wilderness Society, Mike Swenson- Utah Shared Access Alliance, Tim Peterson-Grand Canyon Trust, Mark Clemons-Sierra Club, and Dave Glenn-Trout Unlimited. Utah Association of Counties Mark Ward, Marcia Argust from Pew, and Utah State Senator Kevin Van Tassell have also joined in support of the framework unveiled today at the Utah State Capitol. "The Daggett County proposal represents an important milestone in the efforts to advance the Utah Public Lands Initiative. I commend all those who came to the table to find common sense solutions and compromises to some of the biggest challenges that have plagued public lands policy in the state for more than three decades. The draft proposal that will be included in the final PLI legislation includes some key components such as economic development for the county, economic opportunities for SITLA, land and water conservation, increased opportunities for motorized and non-motorized recreation, and advancements for the sportsmens' community," said Congressman Bishop. "This proposal is the result of significant negotiations and compromise on behalf of everyone involved. I'm proud that we are able to bring new opportunities for economic development to Daggett County as a result of our efforts and that was always our primary goal. Ensuring the future success and economic viability of our county remained our number one priority and this proposal reflects that," said Daggett County Commissioner Jerry Steglich. "I'm pleased that each party involved in the proposal recognizes the importance of supporting the future economic growth of Daggett County. The ongoing uncertainty that has plagued public land use has been a challenge for Daggett County and the other counties involved in the Public Lands Initiative. The proposal introduced today is a key step forward for Daggett County. Some concerns and challenges remain but this brings a clear path forward and I'm proud to lend my support to this important initiative," said Senator Kevin Van Tassell. Specifically, the Daggett County proposal includes the following key provisions: COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT · County to receive 800 acres of Forest Service land adjacent to Dutch John for a shooting range, power substation, and landfill. · County to receive increased annual revenue from the transfer of energy revenue producing site to SITLA. · County to benefit from SITLA-Forest Service land exchange that may facilitate development of year-round resort. · County to cooperatively manage historic Swett and Jarvie ranches to maintain their economic value as tourist attractions. INCREASED ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES ON UTAH SCHOOL AND INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS ADMINISTRATION · Large SITLA land exchange that will trade scattered and low economic value SITLA holdings for consolidated holdings that have higher revenue potential. · Lands to be acquired by SITLA include an energy revenue producing site and Forest Service land that is sought for year-round resort development. LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION AND RESOLUTION OF WILDERNESS · Establish over 80,000 acres of wilderness on BLM and Forest Service land. · Establishing a 30,000-acre conservation area. · Designate a portion of the Green River as a wild and scenic river. · Forest Service and BLM to acquire state lands within conservation and wilderness areas. RESOLUTION OF R.S. 2477 · County to receive rights on open routes on BLM land outside of proposed wilderness and conservation area. · County and State of Utah to relinquish claims on routes within proposed wilderness and conservation area. · Establish a process for county to apply for rights-of-way on closed routes on BLM land outside of proposed wilderness and conservation area. OTHER BENEFITS TO DAGGETT COUNTY · Land exchange to facilitate a homeowners association acquiring their home sites from the Forest Service. · Facilitate the exchange or sale of the Forest Service lands containing privately-owned cabins to the cabin owners. INCREASED RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES · Protection for important hunting habitat as a conservation area. · Ensure that the Forest Service maintains specified campgrounds. · Upon passage of legislation, support the reopening of the Sears Canyon route to ATV traffic and the establishment of an ATV route up Dutch John Canyon.
10.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Tomorrow, more than 160 high school students from Utah's First Congressional District will attend the 10th annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) at the Utah State Capitol. Each year students join together at the state capitol to engage in discussions on topics pertaining to the three branches of federal government, history, and the election process. "I am grateful to the teachers, staff, volunteers, and speakers who help make this conference possible for students each year. Having spent the better part of three decades as a public school teacher in Utah, I recognize the importance of providing students with opportunities for practical application of their textbook studies. This event is a great venue for students to engage with their peers and expand their understanding of government and history outside of the classroom," said Bishop. During the conference, students will participate in group discussions, conduct case study sessions, and discuss and debate current policy issues being addressed by Congress. Guest speakers this year include Lieutenant Governor Spencer Cox as well as Judge Ted Stewart. Students were selected by their teachers for attendance at this event. Invitations were sent to all high schools and school districts located in the First Congressional District. WHAT: Annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop WHERE: Utah State Capitol Complex 350 N. State Street Salt Lake City, UT 84114 DATE: Tuesday, October 21, 2014 TIME: 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. MDT *As always, this event is open to all members of the media*
09.25.2014	WASHINGTON— President Barack Obama today wielded his executive powers to expand the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument by six times its original size. The expanded national monument will now total 490,000 square miles. This area, which is three times larger than the State of Montana, will be off limits to commercial fishing and exploration for deep-sea energy development. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who has raised concerns about the fact that Presidents are not required to seek input or participation from the public during the application of the Antiquities Act , issued the following statement about today's announcement: "President Roosevelt never intended for the Antiquities Act to be used as a political weapon to curry favor with special interest groups. If you read the original text of the Antiquities Act it clearly articulates its intended purpose. Over time, it has devolved into a political arrow in the quiver of both Republican and Democrat presidents. If these areas in the Pacific are worthy of inclusion they should have no problem being approved through the open Congressional process, which allows for public input and participation," said Congressman Rob Bishop. ?
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in recognition of the 227th Constitution Day. "Failure to understand the distinct and defined roles within our constitutional form of government has significant implications. The federal government's siphoning of power away from American citizens and the states is a prime example. The 10th Amendment and our Founding Fathers' concept of federalism clearly define that the majority of the power resides with the people and the states. However, activist courts and power-hungry bureaucrats have sought to undermine this tenet of the Constitution. Over the last fifty years, the federal government has successfully managed to gain influence over nearly every aspect of our daily lives. The solution to many of the problems that our nation currently faces, and the most effective way to ensure personal liberty, is to restore the balance of power as our Founding Fathers intended. Ensuring that the concept of federalism is applied to all decisions made by all three branches of the federal government is perhaps even the salvation of this country."
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) was selected by House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) as one of the key members tasked with helping to negotiate the annual National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is reviewed and voted on annually by the U.S. House of Representatives to provide funding for the U.S. Department of Defense's budget. The bill provides funding for vital national defense capabilities, including our troops, essential infrastructure, weapons systems, the operations of the Pentagon, and cost of living pay increases for the military. Congressman Bishop and the HASC Members selected by the Chairman to negotiate the final NDAA with the U.S. Senate will work to ensure that this vital legislation is enacted so that our national defense capabilities may continue. "The instability and unrest occurring today around the globe emphasize our need to have robust national defense systems in place throughout every branch of our military and our intelligence agencies. The U.S. Department of Defense has suffered draconian cuts over the past five years that have jeopardized the safety of our troops and the readiness of our forces. Ensuring that we address the needs of our troops and the Pentagon in the NDAA is a priority and I look forward to joining with fellow HASC Members to ensure that we get this bill passed in the Senate and signed into law," said Congressman Bishop.
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today joined in support of the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act [H.R. 5078], which would prohibit the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their regulatory authority to nearly every body of water in America, including ponds on farms, ditches, and watersheds. For more than forty years, the regulation of water quality throughout the United States has been achieved through collaboration between states and the federal government. This partnership was established under the 1972 Clean Water Act (CWA) and limited the extent of the federal government's oversight authority to "navigable waterways." The defined responsibility of states and federal agencies resulted from the fact that not all waters need federal oversight and subsequently, that states should have the primary responsibility for the waters within their boundaries. "The EPA is aggressively working to expand its regulatory and rulemaking authority. Decisions about water quality, use, and management are best made in coordination with officials at the local and state levels, and should not be decided solely by federal bureaucrats. The notion that water quality in our states would somehow be in jeopardy without the overreach of the EPA is bogus and unsubstantiated. States, many of which are leaders on research regarding water quality, are equally capable of ensuring that waters upstream and downstream have proper oversight," said Rob Bishop. The Supreme Court has twice reaffirmed the defined roles of states and federal agencies. The current presidential administration, however, has sought to "clarify the scope" of the federal government's oversight jurisdiction under the CWA, which would ultimately expand its regulatory and rulemaking authority. The Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act would limit federal agencies from having the ability to unilaterally expand their power over waters in the United States.
08.12.2014	OGDEN, UT-- Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today announced that he will host town hall meetings in Davis, Uintah, Duchesne, Weber, Box Elder, and Cache Counties. The meetings will provide constituents with an opportunity to hear about current events and the latest policy initiatives in Congress and how they impact the State of Utah. Constituents will also have an opportunity to ask questions and share concerns or comments. "I look forward to the town halls held in August each year. They provide an opportunity for communities in the First District to hear about the latest events back in Washington, but more importantly, they give me an opportunity to learn more about the thoughts and concerns from constituents. I take the feedback shared during town hall meetings back to Washington with me and it plays an important role in how I approach policy discussions and debates," said Bishop. Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year as well as every August during the Congressional summer work period. Below is a schedule of the upcoming meetings: Davis County WHAT: Davis County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Layton City Council Chambers 437 N. Wasatch Drive Layton, Utah DATE: Wednesday, August 13, 2014 TIME: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.Uintah County WHAT: Uintah County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: USU Vernal Campus 320 N. Aggie Blvd. Vernal, Utah DATE: Thursday, August 14, 2014 TIME: 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m.Duchesne County WHAT: Duchesne County Town Hall Meeting with Governor Gary R. Herbert WHERE: Crossroads Senior Center 50 East 200 South Roosevelt, Utah DATE: Thursday, August 14, 2014 TIME: 7:30p.m. - 8:30 p.m.Weber County WHAT: Weber County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Shepherd Union Building, Ballroom B Weber State University DATE: Tuesday, August 19, 2014 TIME: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.Box Elder County WHAT: Box Elder County Town Hall Meeting with Governor Gary R. Herbert WHERE: USU Extension, Milton-Miller Building Commons 195 W. 1100 S. Brigham City, Utah DATE: Tuesday, August 19, 2014 TIME: 8:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.Cache County WHAT: Cache County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Historic County Courthouse 199 N. Main Street Logan, Utah DATE: Thursday August 21, 2014 TIME: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON— Today Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman, joined in supporting the passage of the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act [H.R. 4315.] The legislation makes updates and improvements to the Endangered Species Act (ESA), which has struggled to accomplish its core mission due to outdated policies. Since the bill's creation in 1973, more than 1500 species have been listed and the current rate of recovery stands at just 2%. It has been 26 years since updates were made to ESA. Excessive litigation by special interest groups has been an albatross around the neck of ESA, and has prevented it from achieving the results for which it was intended. Today's legislation seeks to address this challenge, improve transparency of the program, bring greater state involvement, and reduce the taxpayer-financed litigation. "The Endangered Species Act isn't working. The ultimate goal is to ensure that threatened and endangered species are successfully recovered and that long-term management plans are put into place. This legislation puts us on a path to do that. Without updates we will maintain the status quo, which has had a success rate of just two percent. In every classroom in America, that counts as a failing grade. We have to do better," said Congressman Bishop. The following are key improvements to ESA included in H.R. 4315: · Data used by federal agencies to support an ESA listing will be made available to the public through the internet. · The federal government will disclose to affected states data used prior to an ESA listing decision. · The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will be required to track, report to Congress, and share online federal taxpayer funds as well as personnel hours required to respond to ESA related lawsuits. · Placement of reasonable caps on attorneys fees to make the ESA consistent with existing federal law. Through ESA-related litigation, attorneys are being awarded large sums that often include rates as much as $600 per hour. In most other areas of the federal government, attorneys' fees are limited to $125 per hour in most circumstances. Supporters of this legislation include: · American Logger's Council · U.S. Chamber of Commerce · Family Farm Alliance · National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association · National Endangered Species Act Reform Coalition · National Association of Conservation Districts · National Association of Counties · Western Energy Alliance · American Farm Bureau Federation · Americans for Responsible Recreational Access · American Council of Snowmobile Associations · BlueRibbon Coalition, Inc. · Motorcycle Industry Council · National Off-Highway Vehicle Conservation Council · Off-Road Business Association · Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association · Specialty Equipment Market Association · Specialty Vehicle Institute of America · The Public Lands Council · National Cattlemen's Beef Association · Washington Farm Bureau · Oregon Farm Bureau · Idaho Farm Bureau · Colorado Farm Bureau · The Public Power Council · Northwest River Partners · Wyoming County Commissioners Association · Wyoming Stock Growers Association Wyoming Association of Conservation Districts
07.25.2014	WASHINGTON— Today, President Barack Obama signed the Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy Development Act [H.R. 356/ S. 27] into law. This legislation was authored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). The bill specifically facilitates the exchange of approximately 20,000 acres of state-held mineral rights within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation for mineral rights on approximately 20,000 acres of land located within the northern portion of the reservation. This new law protects cultural lands in the southern part of the reservation and provides new opportunities for energy development elsewhere. "This legislative effort is an example of the successes that are possible through collaboration. So much uncertainty exists with the way areas of our public lands are managed and used. Here we were able to take interests of different entities, the Ute Tribe and the State of Utah, and reach an agreement about an equitable exchange that protects sensitive cultural lands while also providing opportunities to generate revenue for public education. This bill is an important part of our ongoing efforts to successfully address the decades old challenges that have prevented us from reaching agreements about land use, management, and conservation. It is my hope that this is among many future successes on this front," said congressman Bishop. Congressman Jim Matheson (UT-04), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02), and Senator Mike Lee (Utah) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. RELATED DOCUMENTS: Bishop Lauds Senate Passage of Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy Development Act Rep. Bishop's Hill Creek Bill Passes House Hatch and Bishop Introduce Legislation to Convey Federal Land to the State of Utah
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON— The U.S. Senate today passed the Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy Development Act [H.R. 356/ S. 27] originally introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). The legislation facilitates the exchange of approximately 20,000 acres of state-held mineral rights within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation for mineral rights on approximately 20,000 acres of land located within the northern portion of the reservation. This exchange will ensure that cultural lands in the southern part of the reservation will be protected in perpetuity while, at the same time, providing new opportunities for energy development elsewhere. The legislation already passed in the U.S. House of Representatives on May 13, 2013 and will now head to the President's desk to be signed into law. "I am pleased that we are finally able to get this long-sought exchange to the President's desk. Today, that's not such an easy endeavor. This bill importantly takes into account the interests of both the Ute tribe and the State of Utah. It offers necessary protection to sensitive cultural lands while providing new opportunities to generate revenue for Utah's public education," said congressman Bishop. Congressman Jim Matheson (UT-04), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02), and Senator Mike Lee (Utah) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. RELATED DOCUMENTS: Rep. Bishop's Hill Creek Bill Passes House Hatch and Bishop Introduce Legislation to Convey Federal Land to the State of Utah
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to today's U.S. Supreme Court decision declaring that certain U.S. employers cannot be required by the federal government to pay to cover contraceptives for their employees: "Religious freedom is a fundamental constitutional right and I am very pleased by the Supreme Court's decision to continue to protect that right. The Obama Administration's attempt to force employers to pay for things which they may oppose on religious or moral grounds was unacceptable and I'm glad that we have some resolution on this matter," said Congressman Bishop.
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON— Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America that Works Act [H.R. 4899]. The bill, which Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) co-sponsored, addresses some of the significant roadblocks preventing growth within onshore and offshore energy sectors, which, in turn, will lead to new jobs and lower gas prices. Included in the final legislation was an amendment introduced by House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) that would prevent the Administration from withdrawing federal lease parcels from a scheduled sale after the public comment period has closed and after the sale has been announced. Most recently, in November 2014, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) deferred 57 parcels from a planned lease sale only five days before the sale was to occur. The BLM justified the decision to cancel the lease sale based on a letter submitted long after the public comment period had ended. "Our federal lands and offshore resources hold a great deal of potential for both job creation and domestic energy production. Unfortunately, the current Administration has endeavored to curb production of our federal energy resources and, unfortunately, they have succeeded. More than 100 leases set to go on the block in Utah have been cancelled during this Administration's time in office. Those leases would have brought jobs and revenue to my home state and I know that Utah isn't alone in this. The Administration can and should do better by the American people and this bill is a great place to start," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, H.R. 4899: Requires the Administration to move forward with new offshore energy production in areas containing the most oil and natural gas resources – including the Atlantic Coast and Pacific Coast. Requires the Administration to conduct oil and natural gas leases sales that it has delayed or cancelled, including the Virginia Lease sale originally scheduled for 2011. Increases offshore energy production by establishing fair and equitable revenue sharing of offshore revenues for all coastal states, including U.S. territories. Reforms and further enhances the accountability, efficiency, safety and ethical standards of offshore energy operations. Reforms the leasing process for onshore oil and natural gas projects on federal lands to eliminate unnecessary delays. Reforms the process for energy permitting, once a lease is in hand, to encourage the timely development of our federal resources. Sets clear rules for the development of U.S. oil shale resources. Establishes common sense steps to create an all-of-the-above American energy plan using our vast federal resources. Ensures that oil and natural gas resources in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A) are developed and transported in a timely, efficient manner. Modernizes and updates the bidding process for oil and natural gas leases by allowing Internet-based auctions.
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today introduced the Advancing Conservation and Education Act [H.R. 4901]. This landmark legislation will increase public education funding in western states while completing conservation areas that currently include state school trust lands. "As a former Utah public school teacher I can attest to the very real funding challenges facing public schools in western states. Among the unintended consequences of previous federal conservation designations are the limitations placed on school trust lands trapped within those areas. Right now it is difficult, if not impossible, to utilize millions of acres intended to support public schools. As a result, public schools are shortchanged out of much-needed revenue. We have an opportunity to fix these issues by exchanging trapped school trust parcels for lands with viable revenue opportunities. In turn we will complete the conservation areas. It's a commonsense solution that most importantly delivers a win for school kids in the West," said Congressman Rob Bishop. "Conservation designations are critical, but designations trapped in a checkerboard pattern do not provide environmental benefits and they tie the hands of cash-strapped Western states. This bipartisan legislation is a win for those in the conservation community that want to protect our lands, and it's a win for Western states, the federal government, and taxpayers because it consolidates a fractured land base," said Congressman Peter DeFazio. In the West, many state-owned school trust lands are scattered throughout the state in a "checkerboard" pattern. Congress granted most of these lands to the western states at the time of their statehood with the intent they be held in trust and managed to support public education. Today, the Western States Land Commissioners Association estimates there are more than two million acres of these school parcels located in federal areas managed for conservation, such as National Parks, Wildlife Refuges, and Wilderness areas. As a result, it is difficult, and often impossible, to generate revenue on these school trust parcels because of their inaccessibility and proximity to federally protected places. Specifically the legislation: Allows western states to relinquish ownership of certain land grant parcels located within federal conservation areas to the federal government. Allows western states to select certain federal lands in exchange for the relinquishment of the aforementioned land grant parcels. All relinquishments and selections must be done in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). All relinquishments and selections must possess equal value so as to protect both state and federal interests. Land grant parcels conveyed to the federal government are subject to valid existing rights. Existing grazing permits will be recognized by both the federal government or the western state. Supporters of the bill offered the following statements: James D. Ogsbury, Executive Director of the Western Governors' Association- "Western Governors applaud this bipartisan effort to reform the burdensome federal land exchange process that often prevents the completion of sensible and mutually beneficial exchanges." Kathy Opp, President of the Western States Land Commissioners Association- "It is important to have this practical tool to better fund education and create value for our beneficiaries, primarily K-12 public education in our states." Paul Spitler, Director of Wilderness Campaigns for The Wilderness Society- "This legislation will help preserve America's parks and wilderness while providing states with new sources of revenue for schools. It's a classic ‘win-win.' We applaud Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member DeFazio for their efforts, and hope the Congress will speedily approve this important bill." Letter of support from the Western Governors' Association [here].
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) is scheduled to attend the Western Caucus Foundation's Western Energy Summit, which will be held next week in Utah on June 2nd and 3rd prior to the Governor's Energy Development Summit. Congressman Bishop will deliver opening remarks on Monday, June 2nd and will participate in discussion panels on Tuesday, as well as on Wednesday, during the Governor's Energy Development Summit. The following includes the schedule of events for the Western Caucus Foundation's Western Energy Summit: Monday, June 2, 2014 4:15 p.m. – 6:30 p.m Opening Reception Welcome remarks delivered by Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) Location:Utah Olympic Park 3419 Olympic Parkway Park City, Utah 84098 Tuesday, June 03, 2014 10:00 a.m. to 11:15 a.m. 11:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Panel discussion on Federal and State Issues Participants: Congressional Western Caucus & Energy Producing States Coalition Location:Utah Office of Energy Development 60 East South Temple Canyon conf. room- 3rd floor Lunch Keynote Addresses: Representative Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large) and Utah Lt. Governor Spencer J. Cox Guest Speaker: William Kovaks, Senior Vice President, Environment, Technology, and Regulatory Affairs- U.S. Chamber of Commerce Location:Grand America Hotel 555 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Imperial Ballroom C 1:45 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Roundtable Discussion with Congressional Western Caucus Members and Guests on Energy Production in the West- Threats and Opportunities Moderator: Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03) Topics/Speakers: EPA: Regulations Kristina Moore, U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee EPA: ESA Policy on Sage Grouse Ursula Rick, Western Energy Alliance Allen Freemyer, Western Grouse Coalition BLM: Threats to Hydraulic Fracturing on Public Lands Tim Charters, House Natural Resources Committee 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Governor's Energy Summit Reception Location:Salt Palace Convention Center Wednesday, June 04, 2014 Governor's Energy Development Summit 10:30 a.m. Congressional-Federal Panel Guest Speakers: Congressional Western Caucus Members Location:Salt Palace Convention Center *these events are open to the press
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) shared his dismay over President Obama's decision to create a new 500,000 acre National Monument along the U.S.-Mexico border in the state of New Mexico. The President utilized the executive authority granted by the controversial Antiquities Act to create the new national monument. "The President's decision to create the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument is disappointing, but it comes as no surprise. It was one of the areas listed in the U.S. Department of Interior's leaked Treasured Landscapes document, which offered a glimpse into the Administration's intentions for new national monument designations. "The most surprising aspect of this decision, though, is the President's total disregard for the well-known drug trafficking and human smuggling issues plaguing public lands along the border. Today's decision will exacerbate rather than improve these very real issues, and for that, the President should be held personally accountable. Even the two Democrat Senators recognized the need to release the Wilderness Study Areas in order to help U.S. Border Patrol have improved access to these areas. With today's decision, this land will remain off limits to the U.S. Border Patrol for routine security operations, making this area a prime drug trafficking corridor as we've seen in many other areas along the southern border. Drug cartels are highly organized operations that take full advantage of wilderness and other federal lands where the Border Patrol has limited access. "The many issues associated with the new national monument would have come to light if the Administration had bothered to allow public input as part of the decision making process. And the staged public meeting held during Secretary Jewell's visit doesn't count. The ability to exclude the public and members of the local community is one of the biggest issues plaguing the controversial Antiquities Act and is one I hope to fix. "The President may have felt pressured to do something nice for his special interest group allies but he shouldn't have done it at the expense of the safety of the country," said Congressman Bishop, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee. Congressman Bishop recently introduced the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act (EPIC Act) to ensure that the public has an opportunity to participate in the discussions and decisions regarding new national monument designations. Specifically, the bill requires the President to apply the National Environmental Policy Act to future national monument designations [background of EPIC Act]. Congressman Bishop has also introduced legislation that would give the U.S. Border Patrol greater access to federal lands along the border, cutting off some of the most highly traveled routes by drug smugglers and human traffickers. Information on the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 2398]can be found here.
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today joined with 20 fellow Members of Congress to introduce the Repeal Amendment [H.J. Res. 115]. This legislation would allow states to repeal a federal law or policy viewed to be out of touch with the priorities of the country by joining together in supermajority opposition. States' ability to hold the federal government accountable for passing out-of-touch policies will help restore the proper balance of power between states and the federal government intended by the U.S. Constitution. Specifically, the amendment states: "Any provision of law or regulation of the United States may be repealed by the several states, and such a repeal shall be effective when the legislatures of two-thirds of the several states approve resolutions for this purpose that particularly describe the same provision or provisions of law or regulation to be repealed." "Over the course of history, states have unfortunately lost the ability to compete against the dominant and powerful federal government. We know that this is antithetical to what our founding fathers envisioned for our country because they specifically outlined the balance of power between the people, states, and federal government in the 10th Amendment. We commonly recognize the defined powers of the people, states, and federal government as the concept of Federalism. Without restoring Federalism as the foundation upon which all policy decisions are based, the size and scope of the federal government will unquestionably continue to grow," said Congressman Bishop, co-founder of the House 10th Amendment Task Force. The Repeal Amendment would require two-thirds of the states to collectively agree that repeal of a federal policy is necessary. The states would vote to proceed with repeal action in their state legislatures. Once a supermajority of states has agreed upon repeal of the law, Congress may determine to uphold the repeal or vote to pass the law one final time. "We need to look no further than the $17 trillion debt to see that the approach we have taken as a nation is not working. This immense debt is the direct result of the federal government not just spending too much, but doing too much. The Repeal Amendment is a solution that deserves thoughtful consideration as we work toward returning power currently at the federal level back to the people and states," Bishop added.
05.19.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging that he refrain from designating a new national monument on the U.S.- Mexico border given the ongoing violence occurring on federal lands in the southern border regions. News broke last week that a National Park Service (NPS) employee was brutally attacked by drug smugglers on federal land. It has been rumored that President Obama is considering using the controversial Antiquities Act to create a new national monument in the Organ Mountains-Desert Peak area of southern New Mexico. The proposed new national monument lacks local support and there are concerns that it will impede upon the U.S. Border Patrol's ability to conduct security operations. Dear Mr. President: I am writing to urge the Administration to reconsider any and all efforts to designate lands along the United States-Mexico border as National Monuments under the Antiquities Act. Unresolved security gaps along the border and a recent violent attack of a U.S. National Park Service (NPS) employee at Chiracahua National Monument raise serious concerns about safety and ongoing violence along the border. In light of the unresolved criminal activity taking place on federal land along the border, I am asking the Administration to abandon any efforts to move forward with new national monument designations. National Parks, monuments, and wilderness areas along our southern border have become prime drug-trafficking corridors for violent criminals and drug cartels. Restrictive environmental laws within these federal corridors limit Border Patrol access and, as a result, make it easier for drug smugglers and human traffickers to move their drugs and people in and out of the United States unnoticed. In an October 2009 letter, then Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano illustrated the difficulty that certain environmental policies create with regards to the U.S. Border Patrol's (USBP) fulfillment of their mission[1]: "While the USBP recognizes the importance and value of wilderness area designations, they can have a significant impact on USBP operations in border regions. This includes that these types of restrictions can impact the efficacy of operations and be a hindrance to the maintenance of officer safety." More recently, a public servant with the National Park Service on duty at Chiracahua National Monument was viciously attacked by a drug-smuggler. The assailant beat the NPS employee with a large rock, dragged her into a nearby NPS facility, and then fled the scene in the employee's truck[2]. The employee suffered brain damage among other serious injuries. It's irresponsible to focus efforts on new land designations rather than finding solutions to existing criminal activities plaguing the border. I am concerned that new federal land designations along the southern border will only add to the ongoing criminal activity already taking place. New and restrictive federal land designations on the border will further hamper the U.S. Border Patrol's ability to conduct routine patrols and apprehensions, allowing drug smuggling and human trafficking to occur on our federal land. As a sovereign country, this is inexcusable. Statistics prove that areas where the Border Patrol has unfettered access are among the safest and secure areas along the southern border. Areas with strict federal land policies that block the USBP from having necessary access are among the most highly trafficked routes. I am specifically concerned by the Administration's identification of the 1.2 million acre Otero Mesa in southern New Mexico as a leading candidate for a designation under the Antiquities Act. This area was described in the Administration's Treasured Landscape memo as one of the most endangered ecosystems in the country[3]. Sadly, unfettered border crossings by drug cartels are not only a scourge on communities but they are fueling ecosystem degradation. It's been widely reported that thousands of pounds of trash are left along the border by illegal crossers and drug smugglers[4]. Other sites along the border are being considered by the Administration for a unilateral designation under the Antiquities Act. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell recently led a listening tour of the Organ Mountains-Desert Peak area of southern New Mexico. Despite local opposition, interest groups and the Department are pushing a 600,000-acre national monument via the Antiquities Act and circumventing an open and transparent congressional process. It's time to revisit our conservation policies along the United States-Mexico border. The current system harms border patrol agents, land managers, and environmental advocates. The only groups that benefit under the current system are the drug smugglers and human traffickers. We can do better. Our new approach to conservation must involve local communities, Congress, and multiple agencies within the executive branch. The Antiquities Act is not the answer. I hope that we can work together to address the deteriorating security situation along the United States-Mexico border. Protecting the homeland and preserving the environment are not mutually exclusive, but environmental laws cannot and should not be used to impede and limit Border Patrol activities and pursuits. Thank you for you attention on these important issues. Sincerely, Rob Bishop Member of Congress [1] Letter from Secretary Napolitano to Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (October 2, 2009) Retrieved May 16, 2014 from /uploadedfiles/dhs.pdf [2] Murrillo, Lupita (May 14, 2014) Chiracahua park employee recalls near-deadly attack. Retrieved May 16, 2014 from http://www.kvoa.com/news/chiracahua-park-employee-recalls-near-deadly-attack-94406/ [3] Treasured Landscape document. Retrieved May 16, 2014 from http://naturalresources.house.gov/uploadedfiles/doimonumentdesignationdocs_revised062910.pdf [4] Illegal immigrants trash border lands with tons of waste (February 1, 2012) Retrieved May 16, 2014 from http://www.judicialwatch.org/blog/2012/02/illegal-immigrants-trash-border-lands-with-tons-of-waste/
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Bishop (UT-01) today applauded the announcement of a plan that will manage and conserve a plant species knows as Graham's and White River beardtongues while also providing opportunities for economic development. The 15-year plan was reached between the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of Utah, School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration (SITLA), and Uintah County. Special interest groups have been pressuring federal land management agencies to list the plant species as "threatened" under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The plant is found only on outcroppings where oil shale deposits exist. "Conservation and multiple use can coexist in the same realm. This plan is an example of that. I commend Uintah County Commissioner Mike McKee for his leadership on this issue. He was instrumental in finding a balance between protection of the plant species and protection of economic development for the state and county. I hope that this plan can serve as a template for future collaboration," said Congressman Bishop.
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON —In response to the latest U.S. sanctions, Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin addressed America's reliance on the Russian Soyuz to transport astronauts to space. Rogozin stated, "I propose that the United States delivers its astronauts to the ISS with the help of a trampoline." In 2010, when President Obama announced plans to kill NASA's manned space flight program in favor of yet-to-be-developed private technologies for human transport to space, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) cautioned the Administration that ceding our position as global leaders in space technologies to countries like Russia was irresponsible and risky. When the Ares Rocket and Constellation Program were cancelled, the United States became solely reliant on Russia to transport U.S. astronauts to the International Space Station (ISS) via the Russian Soyuz. Deputy Prime Minister Rogozin delivered the following statement about the U.S.'s ability to access the ISS: "The United States introduced sanctions against our space industry... We warned them, we will reply to statements with statements, to actions with actions," Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, who heads Russia's defense industry, said on Twitter, according to Reuters. American astronauts depend on Russian rockets to get to the ISS, but after the U.S. imposed sanctions – which deny export licenses for high-tech items that could aid Russia's military -- Rogozin offered up a different idea. "I propose that the United States delivers its astronauts to the ISS with the help of a trampoline," he said. Four years ago, Congressman Bishop cautioned the Administration against cancelling NASA's manned space flight program, noting the dangers of relying on unstable countries like Russia. Bishop also shared concerns about the detrimental impact this would have on military preparedness and missile defense capabilities. Bishop meets with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden to discuss future of manned space program.
04.15.2014	WASHINGTON—The Government Accountability Office (GAO) today released their findings from an extensive audit of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The audit was done at the request [letter] of House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) who has raised concerns about the time and costs associated with NEPA reviews. Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06), Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25), and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-09) also joined Congressman Bishop in calling for the GAO audit of NEPA. "This report substantiates concerns that the federal government has no system to track time or costs associated with NEPA, which is one of the most expansive regulatory laws in the country. The findings of this report are not insignificant and deserve to be given considerable attention and oversight moving forward. The National Environmental Policy Act is important for many reasons, however, I remain concerned about the exorbitant costs and delays associated with the process. I am also very troubled by the constant use of NEPA as a litigious weapon to halt or delay projects that wealthy special interest groups don't like. This report will be instrumental as we work toward finding solutions for some of the biggest problems plaguing this 70's-era law," said Bishop. Notable Findings Costs: § GAO report confirms that no reliable data exists on the costs of the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). (pg. 1) § Agencies do not track the number of analyses performed each year required by NEPA. (pg. 6) § Agencies do not routinely track the total cost of performing analysis required under NEPA. (pg. 10) § According to the Department of Energy, the cost paid to contractors (not including Agency time and resources) for an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) averages to $6.6 million but is as much as $85 million. (pg. 12) § Government-wide information is intended to be tracked by the EPA but GAO found this information to be inconsistent and unreliable. (pg. 8) § It takes an average of 4.6 years to complete an EIS. Data shows that between 2000 and 2012, the time taken to complete an EIS increased at an average rate of 34.2 days a year. (pg. 13) Litigation and Delays: § GAO confirms that most plaintiffs are "public interest groups" defined by CEQ as "citizen groups and environmental nongovernmental organizations." (pg. 20 fn 42) § GAO confirms that one individual lawsuit can "affect numerous federal decisions" and have a "far-reaching impact". (pg. 19) § DOJ's Case Management System only tracks limited information on cases handled by the Environment and Natural Resources Division. (pg. 33) § When asked by Congressman Bishop and Chairman Hastings in May 2013 about the current status of NEPA litigation, the DOJ noted that between FY 2009 and March 2013 there were 1,022 cases open during that period and more than $22 million was spent on attorney fees for NEPA-related cases. The attorney fees do not include the money spent on agency staff and other case-related resources. (Information received September 25, 2013).
04.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Five members of Utah's congressional delegation – U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee, and Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), and Chris Stewart (UT-02) – today urged the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to keep cattle seized in Nevada out of Utah. In a letter to BLM Director Neil Kornze and Amy Leuders, State Director of BLM's Nevada Field Office, the members of the delegation cited health and safety concerns to Utah's cattle industry, workers involved in a potential sale and that of residents in the communities around where any sale may take place. In the letter, Hatch, Lee, Bishop, Chaffetz and Stewart wrote that "We strongly support Governor Herbert and echo his concerns, expressed in his April 2nd letter to you, that going forward with the plan to transport the Nevada cattle to Utah may endanger the health of Utah herds and place Utah state employees and other Utah residents in danger." The letter adds that "endangering [the cattle industry], particularly when there are alternatives available for selling the animals in Nevada, would be imprudent and careless." A signed copy of the letter to the BLM can be found HERE, and the text is below: Mr. Neil Kornze Director Bureau of Land Management 1849 C Street, N.W., Room 5665 Washington, D.C. 20240 Ms. Amy Lueders State Director BLM Nevada State Office 1340 Financial Boulevard Reno, Nevada 89502 Dear Mr. Kornze and Ms. Lueders Over the past several weeks, Utah leaders have expressed to you in letters, hearings, and personal conversations our concerns with the Bureau of Land Management's plans to transport cattle seized in Nevada to Utah for sale. As members of the Utah delegation, we again strongly urge you to develop a plan for the cattle which does not involve transporting them to Utah. The fact that the BLM is legally able to transport the cattle to Utah does not mean it would be wise to do so. Under the circumstances, bringing the cattle to Utah would be foolish and unnecessary. We strongly support Governor Herbert and echo his concerns, expressed in his April 2nd letter to you, that going forward with the plan to transport the Nevada cattle to Utah may endanger the health of Utah herds and place Utah state employees and other Utah residents in danger. With 5,589 beef producers and 364,744 beef cattle, the Utah cattle industry is an important part of the state's economy. Endangering this industry, particularly when there are alternatives available for selling the animals in Nevada, would be imprudent and careless. We also share the concerns of Governor Herbert and other stakeholders that bringing any of the animals to Utah—not just those determined to be feral—may precipitate a needless confrontation. Regardless of who is to blame for the current environment, you clearly have the power to lower the emotions involved by keeping the cattle out of Utah. As Governor Herbert wrote, "the proposed transaction is a Nevada issue, involving Nevada residents and Nevada livestock." We ask that BLM please implement an immediate change of course. Simply postponing your plan will not solve the problem. We hope to work productively with you in your respective roles in the coming years, and to that end we hope you will recognize the very legitimate concerns of Utah leaders and respond accordingly. Sincerely,
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the budget for fiscal year 2015. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), a stalwart advocate for spending reforms and a strong national defense, joined with 218 colleagues in support of the 2015 Path to Prosperity. The Budget Control Act of 1974 requires Congress to establish and pass a budget. While the Senate has been delinquent in their responsibilities, the House has passed a budget each year over the last four years. "The framework of the federal budget should support the constitutional responsibilities of the federal government. Unfortunately, over the years, this has changed and spending has focused less on Congress' constitutional role and more on programs that expand the scope of the federal government. This has resulted in budgets that don't balance and an unacceptable deficit. This budget balances, focuses on core constitutional duties such as national defense, and cuts the growth of spending. While I may not support every single aspect of it, this is the responsible path forward and I was pleased to lend my support to the measure," said Bishop.
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON— Today the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee held a hearing to consider legislation, including the discussion draft for the re-authorization of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (FLREA), which expires next year. Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Ranking Member of the full committee Peter DeFazio (OR-04) addressed the importance of updating the law and have committed to work together to make much-needed improvements in advance of its expiration. They issued the following joint statement regarding today's hearing: "Re-authorization of the Federal Lands and Recreation Enhancement Act of 2004 is an area where we can work together to improve government and protect the taxpayer. We heard testimony today on draft legislation that seeks to address problems we have had with the program over the last ten years. There is still a lot of work to do, including addressing special recreation permits and the services of outfitters and guides. We look forward to working together on this legislation in the coming months," said Congressmen DeFazio and Bishop.
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1459, the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act. This legislation, introduced by House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), requires the application of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) whenever the Antiquities Act is used by the President to establish a new national monument greater than 5,000 acres. Application of NEPA ensures that the American people are no longer shut out from the national monument designation process. "When new national monuments are established by a President, there is absolutely no requirement that the public be given an opportunity to share their concerns or opinions about the potential designation. We're finding that this can result in complications about the management and execution of the designation itself. The application of NEPA would bring such issues to light prior to the designation being made. National monuments created by Congress are required to go through a public process that includes transparency and public participation. It's common sense that the public should be involved regardless of whether or not Congress or the President initiates the designation. Today's bill is a win for the American people," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, H.R. 1459: · Classifies National Monument declarations under the Antiquities Act as a major federal action, which would require the application of NEPA; · Allows for a temporary "emergency" designation (5,000 acres or less for a three-year period) by the president if there is an imminent threat to an American antiquity. After three years, the designation would only become permanent if the NEPA process is completed or it is approved by Congress; · Limits National Monument declarations to no more than one per state during any four-year presidential term in office, unless otherwise approved by Congress; · Prevents the inclusion of private property in monument declarations without the prior approval and written consent of property owners; and · Requires within one year of a declaration, a feasibility study and an estimated cost to taxpayers associated with managing the monument in perpetuity, including any loss of federal and state revenue. Read more about the legislation here
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON—Over the course of his 28 years as a public school teacher, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) graded thousands of papers. He happily awarded A's for outstanding work, but for students who clearly did not do their homework or the necessary research, he often assigned an incomplete with a required re-write. After reading the following Dear Colleague letter written by Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Congressman Bishop assessed that they clearly hadn't done their homework or the necessary research to get a passing grade on their analysis of the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act. He provides context for his grade of "incomplete": click here to view Bishop's critique of the letter
03.21.2014	WASHINGTON– Next week, the House of Representatives will consider H.R. 1459, the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act. This legislation ensures that the American people have the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process leading up to a new national monument designation. The legislation ensures that when presidents make a national monument declaration, it is done transparently and with the application of the nation's primary public involvement law, the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA). Under the 1906 Antiquities Act, a century old law, the President can single-handedly designate a national monument without fulfilling the NEPA process. Subsequently, the President does not have to take into consideration input from the American people or local citizens. In contrast, a national monument established by Congress goes through an open and deliberative process that includes input and participation from the public. "The American people deserve the opportunity to participate in land-use decisions regardless of whether they are made in Congress or by the President. This bill ensures that new national monuments are created openly with consideration of public input. Decisions that impact the livelihoods of so many people deserve to be made out in the open, not behind closed doors," said Congressman Bishop. "There is no legitimate reason that the President should be able to block the public from being involved in this process, that is why we are adding NEPA to presidential declarations. This bill is simply about transparency and fairness. If the President is confident that a designation is really in the best interest of all American people, then this small modification to the application of the Antiquities Act should be non-controversial."By circumventing NEPA, the President does not have to take into consideration concerns or priorities of the American public, local community leaders, local businesses, or elected officials. This legislation, H.R. 1459 would apply NEPA to all Presidential national monument designations 5,000 acres or larger. This would bring continuity to the process and would ensure that the public is included regardless of how national monuments are created. The Antiquities Act was passed before any of today's modern environmental and preservation laws were enacted and was intended to be used in emergencies to protect historic artifacts and sites of scientific value from imminent threat confined to the smallest area possible. The House Natural Resources committee held a legislative hearing on H.R. 1459 in April and the bill was adopted by the full Committee in July. For more information on H.R. 1459 click here.
03.11.2014	WASHINGTON— House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's designation of Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands as part of the Coastal California National Monument: "The President's use of the Antiquities Act to expand the Coastal California National Monument is disappointing to say the least. It is also purely political and undermines sincere efforts to reach consensus on questions of conservation. The House passed legislation to incorporate these public lands into the national monument with bipartisan support- both at the committee level and on the House floor. The fact that this bill hasn't yet been considered in the Senate is not an oversight, it was intentional. The legislation was held up in the Senate so the President could usurp the congressional process. In other words, the House was punked by the President. There is no immediate urgency to make this a national monument. Had the Senate done its job, the bill would have been considered and passed under regular order. There was broad support for the measure. The President seems to view the legislative process as relevant only when it is politically convenient. Unfortunately, that is not how our founding fathers intended for the federal government to operate. I am troubled by the way President Obama and Harry Reid misuse the powers entrusted to them by the American people. This only hurts our country as we move forward tackling some of the biggest issues facing the American people." The House passed H.R. 1441 sponsored by Jared Huffman (CA-02) in July 2013. The bill sought to add the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands to the California Coastal National Monument. Companion legislation was introduced by U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer.
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON— President Barack Obama today released his proposed budget for fiscal year 2015. The President's budget contains requests and recommendations to Congress that they may consider during the development of the official federal budget for the upcoming fiscal year. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to the President's proposed budget for FY2015. "This budget will be a useful campaign tool for some Democrats, and after reviewing it, I am confident that is its intended purpose. However, it is possible, even within this politically motivated budget, to find a small but important silver lining. I was pleased to see the President support proposals to fund suppression of the most severe forest fire activity. Wildfire has plagued the West and often, during extraordinary circumstances, funding needs can grow beyond the federal funding caps. "I am particularly concerned by the recommendation for the Land and Water Conservation Fund to receive $900 million, 64% of which would go toward land acquisition. The federal government already fails to keep up with management on the 650 million acres it already owns. This is further compounded by the fact that the President's budget woefully underfunds Payment in Lieu of Taxes, something that affects Utah and other western public lands states. Apparently he views acquisition of more land as a greater priority than supporting counties and states that struggle to fund essential services and infrastructure. This is just one of many examples of misplaced priorities within the budget. "If the President's proposal were to be enacted, it would mean new taxes and fees for our nation's energy producers and would require our military personnel to shoulder 27% more in health care costs. We do not recruit and sustain the finest all-volunteer military force in the world by continuing to nickel and dime them and their families to death even as we call on them to sacrifice so much abroad in defense of our country. "As our military's aging fleet of aircraft struggle to keep pace with new technological advancements occurring around the world, the President's budget would further reduce the number of F-35 aircraft that will be built in FY15 by eight. Such actions would delay the program and drive up costs. Further reducing our air capabilities, the President proposes to cut the A-10 Warthog aircraft. The A-10 has proven to be effective in providing close air support for our troops. With nothing comparable to take its place, this will further hollow out our defense capabilities. As the President proposes a plan to weaken U.S. defense systems, other countries like China and Russia continue to bolster their air and ground capabilities. Right now, China and Russia are modernizing and advancing missile defense technologies, whereas funding to modernize the U.S. ballistic missile defense system is missing from the budget. "Under President Obama's leadership, America is getting left behind on many fronts. His budget also proposes cuts to NASA's Space Launch System by $331 million but increases funding for commercial space technology by nearly the same amount. With the President's untimely cancellation of NASA's manned space exploration program, and our subsequent reliance on Russia to get to space, it seems irresponsible to lose sight of supporting America's core rocket technology capabilities. Relying on Russia for anything seems dangerous on a good day, but especially today with the deterioration of U.S.-Russia political relations. "This budget is concerning on many fronts beyond the aforementioned. However, I am confident that the House will carefully scrutinize these recommendations as we work to develop a responsible budget that supports and advances the interests and priorities of the hardworking American people."
02.24.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), today issued the following statement in response to Department of Defense (DOD) Secretary Chuck Hagel's remarks about new cuts to military spending: "Defense sequestration has proven to be as bad as I had feared, and its consequences are exactly why I voted against it in the first place. The draconian cuts made by former Defense Secretary Gates during President Obama's first term were devastating to our national defense capabilities. Those reductions, now compounded by a series of spending cuts known as sequestration, have resulted in a force structure that barely rivals what we had prior to the depression era. History tells us that a weakened national defense invites aggression from abroad, something I think we all agree we don't want to see. To weaken our military to the point where the Obama Administration seems to want to take us with this latest budget is extremely short-sighted and dangerous. There is no justification for where we are today. This Administration's priorities are misplaced and focused beyond our core Constitutional responsibilities. "The solutions we desperately seek will not be found by cutting the Air Force's A-10 fleet or taking the Apache Helicopter away from the National Guard. They won't be found by taking away military families' access to affordable goods and services at base commissaries, cutting housing allowances, or slashing their health care benefits. Needed savings will be found by cutting irresponsible spending and improving the management of the federal resources provided to our country by hardworking men and women. This proposed budget would inflict more pain on our troops and military capabilities while other areas of federal spending, such as entitlements, seem to continue to grow unchecked. I hope that the Congress can work to re-prioritize the appropriate and responsible level of defense spending to help maintain our national security and our way of life."
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON— The House of Representatives today passed 10 bills that improve the way our public lands are managed and accessed. Included in the bipartisan package of bills was the Land Disposal Transparency and Efficiency Act [H.R. 2095], authored by Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Rob Bishop (UT-01). The Land Disposal Transparency and Efficiency Act would require the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to create a centralized online database that would track and identity surplus federal lands. By statute, the BLM is required to identify federal lands that no longer serve a federal purpose and can be returned to state or private use. Surplus lands are currently identified through more than 150 separate Resource Management Plans. Tracking this data and the plans is time consuming, burdensome, and inefficient. The Land Disposal Transparency and Efficiency Act would help modernize the way this information is organized and made available to the public. "This database is something that should already exist within the BLM. It would help improve the way the federal government manages and shares information about surplus lands. As we continue to work to find new ways to improve transparency in Washington, we ought to consider proposals such as this that give the American people greater access to information. This bill is a no brainer and I am hopeful it gets the consideration it deserves from the Senate," said Bishop. Other bills included in the public lands package: 1. H.R. 2954, Escambia County, FL Land Conveyance (Miller-FL) 2. H.R. 585, Anchorage Land Conveyance (Young-AK) 3. H.R. 1170, Fernley, NV Land Conveyance (Amodei) 4. H.R. 819, Preserving Access to Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area Act (Jones) 5. H.R. 908, Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act (DelBene) 6. H.R. 3492, River Paddling Protect Act (Lummis) 7. H.R. 657, Grazing Improvement Act (Labrador) 8. H.R. 3188, Rim Fire Emergency Salvage Act (McClintock) 9. H.R. 739, Chesapeake Bay Accountability and Recovery Act (Wittman)
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON – This week, U.S. Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and U.S. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) wrote to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell seeking to reauthorize a successful pilot program that has helped the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) improve efficiency and balance complex demands, including oil and gas permitting and environmental conservation. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 created the pilot program to improve the federal mineral development permit process and help ensure local BLM offices had needed resources. Under the existing program, the Secretary of the Interior may allocate a portion of rental fees paid by producers to specific BLM offices in New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, Montana and Colorado, which can be reinvested to hire additional staff or resources that would improve efficiency and support work on the BLM's diverse responsibilities, such as processing mineral leasing permits and wildlife and range conservation. In their letter, Udall and Bishop wrote that the program, which expires in 2015, has proved to be extremely successful, helping to streamline permitting and enabling the BLM to better manage its additional responsibilities. As part of the process for reauthorizing the program, Udall and Bishop asked Jewell to help them craft "legislative ideas for how to improve and continue the functionality and applicability of the program." "In the past 10 years, the United States has seen a resurgence of production in the oil and natural gas industry. While this jumpstart has mostly happened on state and private lands, multiple-use public lands have a huge role to play with vast, untapped resources," Udall and Bishop wrote. "In order to see this success replicated on public lands, programs that create a more efficient working environment for producers and permitting agencies are vital." "The pilot project and the pilot offices have proven to be successful. In states like Utah, multiple use of our federal lands and resources is a critical component of our ability to address, among many other things, the state's growing education needs. Now, through the pilot offices and the additional resources they provide, BLM staff are able to more effectively and efficiently evaluate energy opportunities in worthwhile areas throughout the West. It is my hope that Secretary Jewell and the Bureau of Land Management will recognize the merits of this project and agree to an extension," said Congressman Bishop. "Streamlining the federal permitting process is of critical importance to local communities, energy producers, and our nation's energy security. Uintah County is pleased that Congress, led by Congressman Rob Bishop, is working in a bipartisan manner to renew an important BLM permit-streamlining program," said Uintah County Commissioner Mike McKee. "The Vernal Field Office benefits from this program and long-term growth in the Uintah Basin will be aided by the program's renewal. We look forward to working with Congressman Bishop on renewing and strengthening this program." "Oil and natural gas production in New Mexico generates critical revenue to support state functions, including education and health," Senator Udall said. "The two New Mexico pilot offices are among the busiest in the country, and thanks to this program, they're more efficient and effective. That ensures we're making smart, strategic decisions about our energy future and providing better service to all New Mexicans. We need to keep them humming by reauthorizing this program and making any changes that would further improve on the success we've already seen." The text of the letter is available below and HERE. Dear Madam Secretary: Thank you for the important work you are doing at the Department of the Interior. As part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Secretary of Interior established a Federal Permit Streamlining Pilot Project under a memorandum of understanding in conjunction with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Through this program, a series of pilot offices were established for a ten-year period for BLM offices in Wyoming, Montana, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah to improve federal permit coordination. Congress supported this program more recently on a bipartisan basis with enactment of Public Law 113-69 in December 2013. At the time of implementation, these existing BLM offices processed nearly seventy percent of the applications for permits to drill (APD) that were received by the BLM. Through the pilot project, these participating offices were eligible to receive a portion of the rental fees—paid by producers to the BLM—from leases across the continental United States in order to reinvest the capital in additional staff or resources to increase the efficiency of the office. BLM offices were able to use the additional funding to process drilling permits and support other agency resources related to range, wildlife, and archeological conservation. In the past ten years, the United States has seen a resurgence of production in the oil and natural gas industry. While this jumpstart has mostly happened on state and private lands, multiple-use public lands have a huge role to play with vast, untapped resources. In order to see this success replicated on public lands, programs that create a more efficient working environment for producers and permitting agencies are vital. As you know, this pilot program is set to expire in 2015. Having been a successful program, we are requesting a reauthorization of this program. We would like to work with the Department to craft language that would be mutually beneficial. We welcome your legislative ideas for how to improve and continue the functionality and applicability of the program. Please send our office your ideas for continued success of this program by March 4, 2014. We look forward to your reply. U.S. Senator Tom Udall U.S. Representative Rob Bishop #######
02.04.2014	By Amy Joi O'Donoghue, Deseret Newsview the story on DeseretNews.com here SALT LAKE CITY — A new report concludes the potential listing of the greater sage grouse in Utah and 10 other western states is a "case study" on why conservation of species through litigation is a practice that fails both animals and people. Released Tuesday by the Endangered Species Act Congressional Working Group, the report said the Endangered Species Act is akin to a regulatory straitjacket that thwarts good conservation work. "The ESA is stuck in a litigation driven model. This outdated model hinders the boots on the ground conservation we should be harnessing to actually recover endangered species, not just spout flowery rhetoric about the law in the courtrooms," said Rep. Cynthia Loomis, R-Wyoming. The report notes that the decision by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to potentially list the greater sage grouse is being driven by a "mega settlement" in which federal agencies concede they are acting hastily to meet a deadline. Such use of closed door settlements, it emphasizes, drives arbitrary mandates and deadlines that do little to promote the recovery of species. The working group was formed in May of 2013 to examine issues related to the implementation of the Endangered Species Act 40 years after its passage. The report contains comments and considerations from outside individuals as well as testimony from nearly 70 witnesses who appeared before the Working Group and House Natural Resources Committee hearings. Thirteen members of the House of Representatives sit on the group, including Utah Rep. Rob Bishop, R-Utah. "The intent of the Endangered Species Act when it was first drafted was noble and the report acknowledges the continued need for the Endangered Species Act," Bishop said. "Unfortunately, however, since its introduction in 1973, the law has been co-opted by activist special interest groups as a tool to snuff out multiple use of our lands and resources." Citing an "unacceptable" species recovery rate of 2 percent, the report details abusive examples of how the act fails in Utah and elsewhere, including: Of the only 30 species of foreign and domestic plants or animals that have been "de-listed," 30 percent of those were removed from protections because they had been erroneously added to the list. With one Texas plant, for example, agencies said there remained only 1,500 plants, when in reality there were more than 4 million. It took more than a decade to get the plant off the list. The discovery of Ute-ladies' tresses — a seasonal plant with a short growing season — in one area of Cache County requires developers to get a survey done throughout the county. Because it is best identified in August, if a developer misses the opportunity to survey that month, they have to wait until the following year to get a permit. A dime-sized spider not seen in the San Antonio area for more than 30 years derailed the construction of a $15 million highway and plugged plans for a $11 million pipeline. Two Utah counties and private landowners have been unable to control an influx of prairie dogs that have destroyed private lands because the federal government counts prairie dogs found on public lands, not private lands, for recovery purposes. The report said this interpretation cost one rural electric cooperative over $150,000 to airlift transmission poles around federal lands that have been designated for Utah prairie dogs, despite private landowners being able to obtain permits to kill them on nearby lands. The report also points to the Fish and Wildlife Service's own acknowledgement that less than 5 percent of the 1,500 species on the list are actually improving and stressed that species management practices invoked by the act have increased the risk of catastrophic wildfires. Multiple recommendations are contained in the report, including overhauling the Endangered Species Act to ensure greater transparency, reducing litigation and encouraging settlement reform, empowering state and private landowners to have more say and demanding more accountability of the act's data and science. Environmental groups said the report is less about reforming the Endangered Species Act and more about "gutting" it. "Time and again Americans have voiced their support for the Endangered Species Act — they see signs of its success in every state. It's why we still have bald eagles, grizzly bears and wolves in the lower 48 states," said Brett Hartl, the Center for Biological Diversity's endangered species policy director. "Now these Republicans are asking Congress to tip this law in favor of profiteers and local politicians rather than the plants and animals it was designed to protect."
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with fellow members of the Congressional Endangered Species Act (ESA) Working Group in releasing a report that examines the past and present effectiveness of the Endangered Species Act. The report also makes recommendations for improvements to the now 40-year old law. "The intent of the Endangered Species Act when it was first drafted was noble and the report acknowledges the continued need for the Endangered Species Act. Unfortunately, however, since its introduction in 1973 the law has been co-opted by activist special interest groups as a tool to snuff out multiple use of our lands and resources. In the last four decades, 1500 species have been listed and efforts are presently underway by certain non-government groups to unjustly add hundreds more," said Congressman Bishop. The report is the result of more than eight months of careful examination and analysis of the ESA. The report includes input from differing viewpoints and angles on the efficacy of the ESA as it is currently considered and implemented. The report contains comments and considerations from outside individuals as well as testimony from nearly 70 witnesses who appeared before the Working Group and House Natural Resources Committee hearings. "The goal of this report is to identify areas where the law can be improved so that we can return to the original intent of species recovery and away from the current litigation-based model. The success rate of this law in its current form is abysmal. The report identifies the need for greater local and state involvement, a heavier reliance on proven science, and a review of how the settlements are made and special interest groups are paid with taxpayer dollars. I found it exceptionally concerning that state recovery efforts are being disregarded, despite their proven record of success. I was also concerned by the lack of transparency that accompanies the settlement and repayment process. It is deeply troubling to see that special interest groups are acting as a shadow government, dictating listings of species," Bishop added. Key concerns identified in the report: In the last 40 years, 1500 species have been listed (pg. 3) only 2% have been recovered (pg. 2) The federal government annually awards attorney's fees to plaintiffs (special interest groups), however, the exact amount spent by the American taxpayer is unattainable (pg. 6) The last authorization for federal dollars to fund ESA occurred in 1988 with caps for each fiscal year through 1992. Every year since then, Congress has appropriated funds for ESA-related activities despite the expiration of the statutory authorization. (pg. 6) Despite a 2% success rate, a representative from Wild Earth Guardians (WEG) stated that "increasing the rate of recovery will require more, not less, protective regulations—the type of regulations that have the potential to affect the economic activity." (pg. 7) ESA litigation has increased the federal government's inability to control catastrophic wildfires (pg. 9) In May and July 2011, the Obama Administration negotiated and agreed to two "mega settlements" mandating that over 250 species be reviewed for final listing as either threatened or endangered. These settlements combined 13 federal court cases and more than 85 lawsuits and legal actions made by the two special interest groups: Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) and Wild Earth Guardians (WEG) (pgs. 7, 8) 201/250 resulted in new listings or proposals to list by the Fish and Wildlife Service (pg. 8) FWS acknowledges that less than 5% of more than 1,500 species on the ESA list are improving (pg. 13) More than 30% of delisted species were removed from the ESA due to data errors indicating they should have never been listed (pg. 15) The FWS has taken the position that it is not required to act on delisting of a species unless and until "an interested party" petitions for action and then follows up with a lawsuit. (pg. 16) Property rights advocates note that farming, livestock grazing, and timber production is regularly prohibited by ESA (pg. 18) One biologist stated that "the collective needs of non-human species must take precedence over the needs and desires of humans (pg. 21) The BLM's National Technical Team's (NTT) used opinions rather than science when drafting its report on the Greater Sage Grouse (pg. 22) The FWS decision to list the Greater Sage Grouse is based on a taxpayer-funded report done by Edward O. Garton. The data used in the study is not available to the public (pg. 23) In 2012 the Department of Justice (DOJ) stated that they had case information on 613 ESA-related cases…537 of which were cases where federal agencies were sued under the ESA (pg. 27) The Department of Interior (DOI) acknowledged that the settlement agreements require federal officials to meet annually with environmental groups to review the status of the settlements. These meetings are CLOSED to the public (pg. 28) From 2000-2010, ESA was the most expensive and litigious statute for DOI [$22 million] (pg. 29) There is no statutory requirement to keep records of litigation expenditures (pg. 30) Some attorneys representing special interest groups have been reimbursed at rates as much as $500 per hour (pg. 31) Documents from the FWS show that environmental groups have filed notices of intent to sue if the government does not make species-specific findings on more than 400 species in a three month time-frame (pg. 34) The bipartisan Western Governors' Association has raised concerns that state's role of species management under ESA and current implementation practices is "largely optional and has been provided by the federal government inconsistently." (pg. 35) The FWS failed to properly notify a county and landowners on a proposal to list a subspecies and the FWS had to ask permission from the Center for Biological Diversity to amend the original settlement deadline to list (pg. 38) The report recommends the following considerations and changes to the ESA in the following four categories: Ensuring Greater Transparency and Prioritization of ESA with a Focus on Species Recovery and Delisting Reducing ESA Litigation and Encouraging Settlement Reform Empowering States, Tribes, Local Governments and Private Landowners on ESA Decisions Affecting Them and Their Property Requiring More Transparency and Accountability of ESA Data and Science
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), released the following statement in response to President Obama's 2014 State of the Union Address: "The President's premise tonight was a good one, and one with which I typically agree. I agree that all Americans should have an opportunity to succeed and to achieve their dreams despite race, religion, or socio-economic status. Unfortunately though, his outline for how our country ought to go about helping Americans get ahead is fatally flawed. It is clear that he has no firm grasp on history, U.S. or international for that matter. If he did, he would not be setting the United States up to repeat mistakes made by other unsuccessful leaders. Anyone with an understanding of history would not insist upon rehashing failed programs of the past. "History tells us that acting unilaterally sets the country up for failure, not success. The Constitution is not something to be disregarded or ignored, it's the rule of law governing our country. The President seems to have forgotten this somewhere along the way. If he truly wants to get the country back on the path to success, he ought to reconsider his decisions to dictate laws via executive fiat that only serve the interest of few and not the entire nation. "The President did get something right in that energy production is up, but it has little or nothing to do with him or his Administration. The production occurring can be attributed to ingenuity and dedication on behalf of hard working Americans and policies set into place before this Administration. His touting this as a personal accomplishment is cute, but it's far from reality. I did however appreciate his willingness to cut red tape. The irony is that most if it has been tape put in place by his own Administration. Further irony is that energy production is in fact soaring on land that the President doesn't control, but if you want to see where he really stands on energy production, look at his policies for public land use. Tonight, instead of unleashing the vast energy potential found throughout the 660 million acres of federal land, he instead said he intends to "use my authority" to lock up federal lands by executive fiat. We need to look no further than Kane and Garfield County, Utah to see how damaging it can be to communities when the President comes in and locks up land as a national monument. Communities across the West live in constant fear of unilateral monument declarations. This is unfair and undemocratic, and I urge the President to abandon these scare tactics and work collaboratively with Congress. Just today it was Democrats who voted against creating new land protections, specifically new wilderness areas, so we see that this has nothing to do with bipartisan policies about public lands, and everything to do with capitulating to the pressures from special interest groups to lock up land by executive order. "If this year is supposed to be President Obama's "year of action" I remain very concerned about what he has in store for our country. The past five years by default must have been his years of inaction and revisiting them we are reminded of his disastrous policies on education, the economy, national defense, energy, and many more. President Obama's lack of interest in learning about history tells us that he is doomed to repeat mistakes and failures of the past. I will work to support policies, Democrat or Republican, that protect the freedom and power vested to the people and states by the Constitution and I will work to thwart efforts that deprive Americans of the type of government our founding fathers intended."
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, announced the approval of a comprehensive public lands package that will create new wilderness areas, release unnecessary wilderness study areas (WSA), convey federal land to local governments, provide land for economic development, and offer new outdoor recreation opportunities in Northern Nevada. The bipartisan Northern Nevada Land Conservation and Economic Development Act, co-authored by Congressman Mark Amodei (NV-02) and Congressman Steven Horsford (NV-04) passed during the House Natural Resources full committee markup by a vote of 29-14. "We are on the cusp of a new paradigm of land management. This bill is among the steps I hope we continue taking toward changing the status quo of how we solve public land management challenges. In order for these new efforts to be successful, we must all approach these issues differently and abandon the tired arguments and positions of the past. We may not be able to fix all that is broken in Washington but we can certainly do our part by changing the way we address federal land policies. This public lands package addressed a complex array of interests and priorities in Northern Nevada. I am pleased with the final bill and commend Congressman Amodei and Congressman Horsford for overcoming political barriers and other outside pressure to do what is right for Nevadans. I look forward to joining with colleagues on both sides of the aisle in support of this bill when it comes to the floor for a vote," said Congressman Bishop. The Northern Nevada Land Conservation and Economic Development Act is comprised of several different public lands bills. Specifically, it: -creates 73,500 acres of new wilderness -conveys 23,000 acres for economic development -releases 990 acres within a wilderness study area -provides a 3-to-1 ratio of wilderness-to-economic development, which far exceeds the 1-to-1 standard supported by the wilderness community In addition to the Northern Nevada Land Conservation and Economic Development Act, the House Natural Resources Committee passed the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore Conservation and Recreation Act, which created 33,000 acres of new wilderness.
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014. The budget resolution passed by both the House and Senate in early December established an agreement to work toward a bipartisan appropriations bill that would fund the operations of the federal government through the remainder of fiscal year 2014. Congressman Bishop (UT-01) joined with the entire Utah congressional delegation in support of the measure, which passed with 359 votes. "For years now, differing views on how we ought to prioritize federal funding have led to impassable gridlock between the House and Senate. That resulted in the necessary passage of short term spending bills known as continuing resolutions. The one thing upon which both the House and Senate agreed was that this was not the ideal way to budget and fund annual federal operations. Subsequently, we were able to find enough common ground to produce a comprehensive appropriations bill for 2014. Although the final bill isn't what I would have drafted had I been the sole author, it ensures that Congress returns to regular order and gets back to addressing some of the biggest priorities facing our nation. I was pleased with some components, and displeased with others. It's safe to say that nobody walked away completely satisfied. I am pleased that with the passage of this bill, we will effectively prevent future furloughs and avoid another potential shutdown of the government. I was disappointed by the exclusion of PILT, however, there is commitment from both sides of the aisle in both chambers of Congress to get that done through a different legislative avenue. It is my hope that this appropriations bill will turn a new leaf for the Senate, and they will recognize the merits of providing stability and certainty for both the federal government and for the country," said Congressman Bishop.
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today announced that fiscal year 2014 funding for the federal Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program will occur this year despite the fact that it was left out of the current omnibus appropriations bill being considered this week by Congress. Bishop, who serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee for Public Lands and Environmental Regulation, made the announcement after an emergency meeting held today with Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH), House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA), House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA), House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (R-CA), and members of the Congressional Western Caucus to discuss the path forward for Fiscal Year 2014 PILT funding. "Many of us were given early assurances that PILT would be funded in the omnibus bill. Since learning last night that this would not be the case, I have joined with House colleagues from across the country to find a solution. The problem is that in 2008 PILT was unwisely removed from the appropriations process and funded by TARP, a source of revenue that has since expired. Now we are in a situation where we have to find a new funding source for PILT. We were pleased today to hear that Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor have pledged their support to ensure that qualifying counties receive 2014 funds. While many ideas are being considered we are confident that we can find an appropriate legislative path for the measure. This latest illustration of Washington, D.C. instability further fuels the need to reassess current federal land ownership and emphasizes the importance of transferring more power and management of these resources to the states. Moving forward, we must fix the problem created in 2008 and determine a solid process that will ensure regular funding in the future. This is a discussion that I plan to lead over 2014 and beyond," said Congressman Bishop. BACKGROUND: Counties with federal land in their jurisdictions are denied tax revenues typical of communities with privately owned land. The diminished tax base hinders rural communities from fulfilling some of their most basic functions. In some counties, 90% or more of the land is federally owned. The Payment in Lieu of Taxes program helps offset the loss of these important revenues and fulfill the federal government's obligation to local communities where swaths of federal land exist.
01.09.2014	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced his support of H.R. 3790, which would provide retired veterans with the full cost of living adjustment (COLA) that was modified by 1% in the budget recently passed by Congress. Congressman Bishop is an original co-sponsor of the bill. "The budget importantly stopped looming defense cuts, will help us avoid another government shutdown, and reduced the deficit by nearly $23 billion. In an era where the House and Senate typically disagree as a result of differing party principles, it was important that we provide a budget outline on which the operations of the federal government will be run. The current political makeup of the House, Senate, and White House means that no one entity walked away with everything it wants. If I had sole authority to write the budget, there are many things I would have done differently. In particular, I wouldn't have included the President's recommended 1% reduction to retired veterans' COLAs. Far too many Americans are having to do more with less as we all work to recover from more than five years of a stagnant economy, however, we cannot balance the financial issues of this country on the backs of our nation's veterans. While the budget is merely a guidance document upon which the appropriations process is based, the COLA provision was one of the few items that did actually go into effect. To my dismay, some in Congress and the White House actually continue to champion this provision. However, I am proud to join in support of H.R. 3790, which will reverse this misguided policy and restore the full COLA increase to our nation's retired veterans."
12.18.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today noted the importance of the U.S. Senate's passage of the budget measure, which avoids another government shutdown, protects military and civilian defense workers in Utah, and reduces the deficit by more than $23 billion. The bill will now head to the President's desk to be signed into law. According to a study conducted by George Mason University, defense sequestration in the State of Utah hit more than 8,000 jobs in the defense and aerospace sectors, which had a significant impact on our nation's military readiness capabilities. "With today's passage, we are ensuring that jobs and critical components of our national defense capabilities aren't crippled as the result of sequestration and another government shutdown. Congress has a responsibility to uphold the fundamental tenet of the Constitution to provide for the common defense of our country. This budget was far from perfect but it does protect our national defense. If we had more reasonable leadership amongst Senate democrat leaders, this bill would have likely turned out far better. The bottom line is that our country needs a budget and to get one done, we had to get past Senator Harry Reid. The fact that we have been able to avoid a shutdown, curtail the defense sequester, and reduce the deficit is significant," said Congressman Bishop.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the budget to authorize the funding of the federal government during fiscal years 2014 and 2015. The budget importantly reduces the deficit by $20-23 billion and protects the military from drastic sequester cuts over the next two years. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with 332 colleagues in support of the measure, noting the relief it will bring to our national defense. "Passing a budget is important and just like families and businesses across the country realize, sacrifices are necessary. In this instance, I would have liked to have seen deeper spending cuts. However, the House, Senate, and White House don't share the same outlook on fiscal conservatism. The key point, though, is that for the next couple of years this bill relieves the burden of sequester on our nation's military while still reducing the deficit over the long-term. The hard working men and women who serve our country have shouldered more than their fair share from President Obama's draconian cuts to defense as well as the President's sequester cuts to defense. You can't balance the budget on the back of our military. Stopping these looming sequester cuts is the right thing to do. If we want to get serious about addressing the budget and curbing spending, we need to expand our sights beyond the Department of Defense," Bishop stated.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON– The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes three provisions benefitting Northern Utah that were included at the request of Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee. "It is important that we pass the NDAA each year. The bill authorizes just about every aspect of our national defense infrastructure and capabilities. This year I am especially pleased that provisions to support Utah's National Guard, Air National Guard, and Hill Air Force Base have been included. The land conveyance for Camp Williams and the transfer of ownership of Francis Peak Radar Site are important to the state. I am also pleased that we continue to prepare for the arrival of the F-35 at Hill Air Force Base. Hill will not only be home to the first F-35s but will oversee much of the maintenance on all of the other F-35s in the country," said Bishop. The NDAA directs the Secretary of Interior to convey 420 acres of federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land located within Camp Williams to the State of Utah. The land will permit the Utah National Guard to conduct ongoing military training and readiness exercises and will streamline the management and utilization of the property. In addition to securing land for the Utah National Guard, the NDAA authorizes the Utah Air National Guard to transfer the Francis Peak Radar Site to the State of Utah. Allowing the state to save this infrastructure from demolition ensures the continuation of emergency communications (including 911 services to Davis County) and relieves the Utah Air National Guard of its obligations now that its mission for the site has ended. Should this not have happened, the Guard would have been obligated under existing Department of Defense (DOD) regulations to dismantle existing infrastructure at a cost to the taxpayers of nearly $2 million dollars. This would have resulted in the loss of communications to the Utah Emergency Network. The NDAA also funds new infrastructure projects at Hill Air Force Base to prepare for the anticipated arrival of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. "I sincerely hope that the Senate will consider setting aside their typical partisan antics in order to do what is right for the country. This is not a bill that ought to be leveraged in a political fight. We absolutely must pass this bill to ensure that our defense efforts, including the men and women serving this country, are not disrupted or jeopardized in any way," Bishop added.
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Sally Jewell today received a letter from Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, requesting further information about the protocol and review process for the submission of official comments by the DOI and related agencies. The letter stems from the recent discovery that the National Park Service used unsubstantiated data from a New York Times opinion piece in official comments made to the Bureau of Land Management. In a September 05, 2013 letter to NPS Director Jon Jarvis, Congressman Bishop highlighted that the comments from the NPS to the BLM used the erroneous information to make a case against hydraulic fracturing. Congressman Bishop recently received a letter from Director Jarvis stating that the comments were made in error and would be withdrawn. Excerpts of the letter: The NPS comments enabled the false narrative that hydraulic fracturing is not regulated and is unsafe. On August 29, 2013, just six days after the NPS comments were filed, the Independent Petroleum Association of America outlined, in a letter to the NPS, the plethora of inaccuracies included in the NPS comments. On September 6, 2013, I sent a letter to NPS Director Jarvis requesting the withdrawal of the comments because of the well-documented inaccuracies. It's further troubling that the NPS lacks a system of data accountability and quality control. Director Jarvis wrote in the November 13, 2013 letter: "I did not, nor did anyone from management, review the comments". This is very puzzling and raises further questions and concerns. view the letter here
12.02.2013	In Case You Missed It… "I have requested that the comments be withdrawn from the record," Mr. Jarvis [NPS Director] said in the letter, dated earlier this month, in which he said nobody "from management" at the agency or at the White House Office of Management and Budget ever reviewed the document before it was submitted. National Journal:Park Service Director Pulls Back Criticism of Hydraulic Fracturing Washington Times: Park Service pulls objection to fracking; used op-ed instead of scientific evidence Park Service pulls objection to fracking; used op-ed instead of scientific evidence By Stephen Dinan, The Washington Times November 26, 2013 The National Park Service has officially withdrawn a controversial document objecting to fracking, scrubbing the record and acknowledging that it broke its own rules on sticking to strict science in its zeal to pressure a fellow federal agency. The embarrassing admission, which came from Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis in a letter to Rep. Rob Bishop, said the comments never should have been submitted, went out without his review, and shouldn't have cited a New York Times op-ed as scientific evidence. "I have requested that the comments be withdrawn from the record," Mr. Jarvis said in the letter, dated earlier this month, in which he said nobody "from management" at the agency or at the White House Office of Management and Budget ever reviewed the document before it was submitted. Mr. Jarvis didn't acknowledge that the science his agency relied upon was bad, but Mr. Bishop said withdrawing the document is a tacit admission that the Park Service was "misleading" Americans. "It concerns me that the National Park Service attempted to pass off unsubstantiated information as ‘science,'" the Utah Republican said. "This thinly veiled attempt to vilify energy production and hydraulic fracturing on our public lands illustrates a shared agenda between the administration and anti-energy special interest groups." …continued here Park Service Director Pulls Back Criticism of Hydraulic Fracturing By Clare Foran, National Journal November 27, 2013 The National Park Service is withdrawing public comments submitted in response to a draft proposal of regulations for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, proposed by the Bureau of Land Management following conservative attacks that the comments, which criticized the drilling technique as a possible health and environmental hazard, were unfounded, according to The Hill. When NPS formally commented on the BLM's proposed fracking rule in August the agency cited an op-ed written by Cornell University Professor Anthony Ingraffea, which raised the possibility that fracking is a contributor to global warming because it releases methane gas. This sparked pushback from oil and gas industry groups and conservative lawmakers who charged that the op-ed was speculative rather than scientific. In September, Rep. Rob Bishop, R-Utah, chairman of the House Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, wrote to Park Service Director Jonathan Jarvis calling the comments inconsistent with the agency's scientific-integrity policy and asking the director to defend the response. In mid-November, Jarvis wrote to Bishop with notice that the park service is formally withdrawing its previous comments on the rule. Jarvis claims, in the letter, that the agency did not intended to submit the comments and that they were not properly vetted internally. Bishop responded to the news with an attack on the administration… continued here Additional stories: PARK SERVICE WITHDRAWS COMMENTS ON BLM FRACKING RULE (Energy and Environment News) PARK SERVICE CHIEF WITHDRAWS ‘FRACKING' COMMENTS (The Hill) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE WITHDRAWS 'INAPPROPRIATE' COMMENTS ON PUBLIC LANDS FRACKING RULE (Huffington Post/AP) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE MAKES ANTI-FRACKING COMMENTS, THEN TAKES IT ALL BACK (Salon) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CITES ANTI-FOSSIL FUELS NYT OP-ED AS ‘SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE' (Daily Caller) ANTI-FRACKING SCANDAL: MORE JUNK 'SCIENCE' (Tribune Review)
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman of the Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, today received a letter from National Park Service (NPS) Director Jon Jarvis admitting that comments recently issued by the NPS to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) about hydraulic fracturing are wrong. Director Jarvis conceded that information used to support the National Park Service's positions on hydraulic fracturing, which they obtained from a New York Times opinion piece, was inappropriate and that the NPS will withdraw its comments. In a letter sent to Director Jarvis on September 06, 2013, Bishop noted that the NPS's comments to the BLM were inconsistent with the policy on Integrity of Scientific and Scholarly Activities. Bishop also raised several other concerns in the letter that were addressed by Director Jarvis in his response letter. "It concerns me that the National Park Service attempted to pass off unsubstantiated information as ‘science'. This thinly veiled attempt to vilify energy production and hydraulic fracturing on our public lands illustrates a shared agenda between the Administration and anti-energy special interest groups. I'm pleased that Director Jarvis will rescind the comments and hope that, moving forward, the NPS will direct their efforts toward promoting the responsible use of our diverse lands and resources and away from misleading the American people," said Congressman Bishop. Sept. 06, 2013 letter from Bishop to Dir. Jarvis November letter from Dir Jarvis to Bishop
11.21.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, today held a legislative hearing to examine bills pertaining to state and federal management of national parks and other public lands. Utah's Lieutenant Governor Spencer Cox was among the guests testifying at the hearing today. "The common thread among the legislation we considered and of the testimony we heard today was that the centralized soviet-style management of our public lands and resources should be abandoned. It's the ‘old' way of doing things and we're in an era where that simply no longer works. I'm not sure that it ever worked and we need to reevaluate how we go about managing federal land. States have proved that they are better equipped with regards to land and resource management. The notion that the federal government is the only entity that can oversee our resources is asinine and is regularly debunked. I am grateful to those who testified today about these important issues and was especially thankful for the testimony of Utah's new Lieutenant Governor Cox," said Congressman Bishop. The following bills were reviewed today by the subcommittee: Protecting States, Opening National Parks Act [H.R. 3286] introduced by Congressman Steve Daines (MT-At Large): To direct the Secretary of the Treasury to reimburse States that use State funds to operate National Parks during the Federal Government shutdown, and for other purposes. State-Run Federal Lands Act [H.R. 3294] introduced by Congressman Don Young (AK- At Large): To establish a streamlined process through which a State may claim authority over and responsibility for management of Federal lands located in the State without claiming ownership of the land, and for other purposes. Providing Access and Retain Continuity (PARC) Act [H.R. 3311] introduced by Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02): To direct the Secretary of the Interior to enter into agreements with States to allow continued operation of facilities and programs that have been determined to have a direct economic impact on tourism, mining, timber, or general transportation in the State and which would otherwise cease operating, in whole or in part, during a Federal Government shutdown that is the result of a lapse in appropriations, and for other purposes. River Paddling Protection Act [H.R. 3492] ? introduced by Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (WY- At Large): To provide for the use of hand-propelled vessels in Yellowstone National Park, Grand Teton National Park, and the National Elk Refuge, and for other purposes. [H.R. 915] introduced by Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04): To authorize the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for other purposes.
11.20.2013	WASHINGTON– The House of Representatives today passed legislation to improve the current leasing and permitting process for resource development on federal land. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, has been a leading proponent of the - Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act [H.R. 1965] and lauded the House's support for the measure. The average time for lease holders to obtain a state-issued permit to drill on approved state land is 12-15 days. According to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) the average time for lease holders to obtain a permit on federal land is 307 days. It currently takes 30% longer to develop resources on federal land than on state land. "It's time for the Administration to take their stranglehold off of western states. In states like Utah, federal land accounts for nearly 67% of the state. Federal land means no property tax revenue and no tax revenue means no funding for education and other essential community programs. Revenue from recreation and conservation is not enough and I challenge anyone who says that it is. It's unfair that children whose families cannot afford private school don't have access to the same educational resources as states like New York and Connecticut. The only way western states can generate funding for education is to utilize the diverse resources found on federal land. There has to be a fair balance between recreation, conservation, and development. I support conservation where it makes sense and it's time that the Administration support energy development where it also makes sense," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, H.R. 1965 · Eliminates unnecessary delays regarding the leasing process for oil and natural gas projects on federal lands · Reforms the permitting process so that once a lease is in hand energy companies will be able to more easily complete the requirements necessary to begin development of the resources, · Seeks to set clearer rules for the development of U.S. oil shale resources
11.18.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) today responded to the Bureau of Land Management's announcement that it will defer an additional 99,960 acres of land in Southern Utah from its quarterly oil and gas lease sale. This latest deferment brings the total number of acres withdrawn from the lease sale to over 800,000. The BLM's Price and Vernal Field Offices will instead offer a mere 44,021 acres for oil and gas leases, a mere 5% of what could have been offered. "It's silly of the BLM to think that it can pass this arbitrary decision off as anything other than what it really is, which is an appeasement of special interest groups that are opposed to all resource development in this area. Their motives are thinly veiled. It is no coincidence that the areas withdrawn from the lease sale are located within the boundaries of a proposal introduced by New Jersey Congressman Rush Holt (NJ-12) that seeks to lock up more than nine million acres as new wilderness. The irony of the situation is that the deferred lease areas are within, or adjacent to, existing federal and state oil and gas leases, which currently coexist in harmony with outdoor recreation. By succumbing to fear mongering from special interest groups, the BLM is further demonstrating the need for locally-driven solutions that support balanced use of the public lands. Revenue from recreation is important to the state of Utah and helps support some communities, but it alone won't pay the bills. We absolutely must have a balanced land-use portfolio that includes resource development and conservation for recreation. I remain committed to working with all interested parties to build consensus over land-use policies, thereby giving communities and land users the certainty they need and deserve," said Congressman Bishop. "Too often, opponents of high-paying energy jobs argue that we can't have both energy development and recreation. This is a false choice. We can have both, and rural Utah desperately needs more high-paying jobs that the energy industry provides. Nearly three times as much land in Emery County is protected from development for every acre that is leased for oil and gas. We need to strike a better balance," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. Click here to view map of previous and current lease offerings. Purple areas indicate parcels that the BLM will offer on November 19th. Areas in blue indicate the parcels withdrawn from lease sale.
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON– Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013 to address the fallacy told by President Barack Obama that the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) would allow the American people to retain their health insurance plan if they chose to do so. The legislation [H.R. 3350] will allow health insurance issuers to continue offering plans in 2014 that don't necessarily meet the Obamacare requirements, ensuring that Americans who like their plans can keep their plans as the President promised. On August 15, 2009, President Barack Obama stated: I just want to be completely clear about this; I keep on saying this but somehow folks aren't listening — if you like your health care plan, you keep your health care plan. Nobody is going to force you to leave your health care plan. (source: whitehouse.gov) Despite assurances from President Obama and other Obamacare backers that "you can keep your health care plan," more than three and a half million Americans on the individual insurance market have received notices that their health insurance plans are being cancelled and that they in fact will not be able to retain their current coverage. "President Obama, Nancy Pelosi, and Harry Reid sold the American people a bill of goods. They lied and now they expect us to trust them to fix it. The roll out of this law has been so fraught with error, it could be fodder for a tragic comedy theater production," said Congressman Bishop. President Obama has signed seven bills into law that have repealed portions of Obamacare since it was first passed in 2010. Additionally, the President has unilaterally issued administrative fixes to the law. "It is unlikely that Harry Reid will ever agree to repeal this disastrous law, but a full repeal is the best solution. In the meantime, the House will continue to roll back some of the most egregious components of the bill. Changes to existing law should be the result of an open and legal constitutional process and not the President's capitulation to current political trends. The President's decision to change laws whenever he wants because of political pressure illustrates his lack of regard for the rights and freedom of the American people," Bishop added.
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, today released a statement regarding President Barack Obama's official nomination of Neil Kornze as Director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Kornze has been serving as Interim Director since the departure of Director Mike Pool. "I enjoyed working with Director Pool and found him to be responsive, professional, and knowledgeable. I was disappointed to see him leave the BLM and hope to have a similar working relationship with Mr. Kornze. I have heard some very good things about him from people I respect. I look forward to working with him on matters concerning Utah and our nation's public lands and hope he will be open-minded about the importance of multiple use."
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) today named the following House Republican negotiators to serve on the House-Senate Conference Committee charged with resolving differences over the Water Resources Reform & Development Act (WRRDA). "Reforming the way our country develops and maintains vital ports and waterways will strengthen our economy and help create new jobs," said Speaker Boehner. "The vote for the House bill was nearly unanimous. It cuts red tape, increases accountability, and protects taxpayers – all without earmarks.I'm confident our negotiators will come to a quick resolution that includes these reforms – one that both the House and Senate can pass and the president can sign." NOTE: Here are the House Republicans the Speaker is naming to serve on the House-Senate conference committee: Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Conferees: Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) Rep. John Duncan (R-TN) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) Rep. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Rep. Larry Buschon (R-IN) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL) Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC) Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Natural Resources Committee Conferees: Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT)
10.10.2013	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee today praised Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert and U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell for working on a compromise agreement to reopen national parks in Utah. Secretary Jewell has also joined with governors in three other states to strike similar agreements. "I commend Governor Herbert and Secretary Jewell for setting politics aside to keep parks open. However, this wouldn't be necessary if the Senate would pass the bill sent over by the House to fund national parks during the government shutdown. The pain passed on to park visitors and businesses is certainly an unintended consequence that has come as a result of Senator Reid's unwillingness to work out a budget agreement with the House. The partnership between states and the Department of Interior illustrates that compromise is indeed possible and that if we work together, it is possible to find solution to the problems we face. This type of arrangement was made in Arizona during the 1995 shutdown. I am confident that similar terms to that agreement can be reached to ensure that states are compensated for supporting tourists and businesses while the Department of Interior is unable to," said Bishop.Feds tells Utah it will accept state money to open national parks By Robert Gehrke The Salt Lake Tribune October 10, 2013 Interior Secretary Sally Jewell notified Utah Gov. Gary Herbert Thursday that the federal government would accept the state's offer to lend money or resources to reopen Utah's national parks, shut down as a result of the federal budget stalemate. Jewell spoke with Herbert by phone Thursday morning, notifying him of the decision, said Herbert's spokesman, Nate McDonald. A letter is also en route to the governor, according to The Associated Press. Details of how and when the parks might reopen still has to be worked out, as well as the cost for restoring the shuttered operations. It is possible that Herbert may have to call the Legislature into a special session next week to approve the loan to the federal government to reopen the parks. It costs about $21 million a year to operate Utah's five most prominent national parks, or about $60,000 a day. The closures of Zion, Canyonlands, Arches, Bryce Canyon and Capitol Reef national parks had been a devastating blow to the tourist-dependent gateway communities around the tourist attractions. Zion National Park, for example, is the state's third-most-visited tourist destination and a key piece of Utah's $7.4 billion tourism economy. Several Utah counties had passed emergency declarations as a result of the closure and there were discussions of the state unilaterally reopening the parks, forcing a potential showdown with the federal managers. Governors of South Dakota, Arizona and Colorado have made requests similar to Utah's. The Tribune will update this story as more information becomes available. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted in support the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act and the Flight Safety Act. The Senate must vote in support of both bills before they go to the President for signature. "The House continues to work toward addressing the unintended consequences that have come as a result of President Obama and Senator Harry Reid's refusal to work with us on a budget agreement. There is certainly common ground that can be found in all of this but it takes the willingness of both parties in both chambers of Congress to come together. Today, both democrats and republicans came together to pass legislation that will fund the Federal Aviation Administration, which helps ensure safe air travel across the country. We also passed legislation supporting the families of those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. The Administration should choose to restore payments to these families immediately. In the event that they don't, this legislation will ensure that families get the benefits necessary to address their needs during this difficult time. These families should not have had to worry in the first place and shame on President Obama for not stepping up to the plate to reassure them that they would receive the help and support they deserve. It appears the Administration allowed this matter to linger as part of their efforts to be as vindictive about the shutdown as possible. The Senate should pass both bills immediately," said Bishop.
10.08.2013	WASHINGTON— Today, the National Park Service (NPS) opened sections of the National Mall for a rally. Upon learning this, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, is calling on the Administration and Senator Harry Reid to support legislation that would fund national parks while Congress continues to negotiate a budget agreement. The Open Our National Parks and Museums Act [H.J. Res 70] was passed by the House and sent to the Senate on October 02, 2013. "It is unfair that the National Park Service is hurting so many visitors, businesses and communities while at the same time selectively choosing who they want to help out. If they make exceptions for a few, they should make exceptions for all. Furthermore, I have received anecdotal evidence of NPS staff taking things too far. There is absolutely no excuse for this and it's clear that the actions of the Park Service are purely vindictive because they certainly aren't necessary. Businesses and communities across the country rely upon these lands to survive and the pain they are enduring today is the result of Senator Harry Reid's obstinacy. It's time he allow the Senate to vote to keep our national parks open to the public and I hope the Administration will urge him to do so immediately.
10.07.2013	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) praised the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) announcement that as many as 400,000 civilian defense workers, including nearly all of those at Hill Air Force Base, would be able to return to work with full pay amid the shutdown of the federal government. The Pay Our Military Act [H.R. 3210], which was co-sponsored by Congressman Bishop and signed into law Monday, September 30th, requires the Secretary of Defense to pay active duty military personnel. The law also gives the Secretary of Defense broad discretion regarding the pay of civilian defense workers, giving him the authority to keep civilian defense employees working. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) was among those who urged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel [letter] to uphold the tenets of the law that enabled civilian defense workers to return to service and receive pay during the shutdown of the federal government. In response to the DOD's announcement about their interpretation of the law, Bishop released the following statement: "I am pleased that the civilian defense workforce will return to service and receive pay during Congress' ongoing budget negotiations. This was the intent of Congress when the law was drafted and it is concerning that some at the Department of Justice sought out a different interpretation that would allow furloughs to continue. Our dedicated civilian defense workers play an important role in our defense capabilities and have already suffered more than their fair share from this Administration. After six unnecessary furlough days this past summer, enough is enough," said Bishop.
10.03.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Honoring our Promise to America's Veterans Act with bipartisan support. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who continues to fight for pay and support of our nation's military, civilian defense workers, National Guard, reservists, and veterans, voted in support of the legislation. "As we work toward finding a resolution to the issues regarding Obamacare and subsequent shutdown of the federal government, the House continues to make good-faith efforts to keep essential aspects of government running. This includes our armed forces, civilian defense workers, and key veterans programs. Just as the Senate followed the House's lead in funding our troops through the Pay Our Military Act, they should also choose to support of our nation's veterans by passing this legislation. This bill would help alleviate delays with regards to disability claims and will help ensure that veterans are not delayed in receiving their benefits," said Bishop.
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04) and Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today sent a letter to National Park Service Director Jonathan Jarvis regarding the Obama Administration's actions to restrict public access to the World War II Memorial and other open-air monuments, memorials and parks in Washington, D.C. These open-air sites have no doors or gates and are normally open to the public 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Such sites were not closed to the public during the last government shutdown in 1996. The letter requests that necessary steps be taken to keep documents related to these decisions, as the Committee intends to soon send a formal document request letter. The letter also notes that the Committee is considering future oversight hearings on the Park Service's closures, as well as the resources and staff time used to erect physical barriers to keep out veterans and other members of the American public from visiting these open-air sites. Full text of the letter: Dear Director Jarvis, Through this letter, the Committee on Natural Resources ("Committee") requests that the National Park Service ("Park Service") take steps as necessary to keep and not destroy documents related to the decision this week to restrict public access to the National World War II Memorial, the Lincoln Memorial, the Korean Veterans Memorial, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial, and other open-air monuments, memorials, and parks in the Washington, D.C., region. The Committee expects to soon send a formal document request as a follow up to this letter. The Committee is also considering conducting an oversight hearing in the near future to better understand the Park Service's closures, as well as the resources and staff time used to erect physical barriers to keep out veterans and other members of the American public from visiting these open-air sites. The World War II Memorial and other open-air sites are ordinarily accessible to visitors 24-hours a day, 365 days a year, and are normally staffed by Park Service rangers only from 9:30 am to 11:30 pm, with visitors able to tour the sites throughout the day and night. However, the Park Service has now determined these sites must be closed to all visitors at all times due to the lapse in appropriations. In response to considerable public outcry against the decision to ban veterans and others from these sites, the Park Service today reversed course and announced it will permit certain veterans groups to visit and exercise their First Amendment rights at the World War II Memorial. It remains unclear whether other veterans groups and members of the public will be allowed to visit and exercise their First Amendment rights at the other open-air memorials and sites across the capital area that are currently closed. It is imperative that the Park Service remove the barriers and allow the American public to resume visiting these open-air memorials, monuments, and parks without further delay. According to news reports earlier today, a Park Service spokesperson said the White House Office of Management and Budget ordered the Park Service to take such extraordinary steps as blockading public sidewalks and access roads around these memorials, suggesting the outrageous closure decision was made in order to make the current lapse in appropriations as conspicuous and painful to the public as possible. The Park Service's earlier statements that such closures were necessary to protect the monuments and memorials and were required by law seem especially dubious given these reports and the Park Service's failure to take similar steps previously or at less visible Park Service sites in the capital area. For example, the Park Service did not close the Lincoln Memorial during the lapse in appropriations in 1996 and, in 2011, protestors were allowed to take over and occupy Park Service sites in the District of Columbia, some of which were damaged at considerable taxpayer cost. Here, the Park Service's decision to barricade the open-air memorials from veterans and other Americans flies in the face of common sense, given their interest in visiting memorials that honor their service and sacrifice to the country. Among the issues of most concern to the Committee are whether the Park Service discussed or considered alternatives to actively excluding the public from these open-air sites, including allowing access to previously scheduled visits by veterans groups; whether direction or guidance came from the Department of the Interior or the Office of Management and Budget to actively restrict public access to these sites; the staff time and costs associated with the transport, erection, and maintenance of the barriers, including whether the barriers are owned or rented by the Park Service; the staff time and costs associated with trash removal from these sites, including any differences between such costs and the costs related to installing and maintaining the barricades; the staff time and costs associated with patrolling and securing these sites prior to and during their closure; the cost to operate these sites during overnight hours; and law enforcement policies and actions concerning trespass on the National Mall and other open-air monuments, memorials and parks throughout the capital region. It is expected that the Park Service will cooperate with the Committee's oversight by not destroying potentially responsive records and providing records to the Committee upon request. Sincerely, Doc Hastings Rob Bishop Chairman, Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation # # #
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who serves on the House Armed Services Committee, is working with House colleagues to ensure that civilian defense employees are deemed "essential" during the government shutdown. Bishop signed a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting that he take into consideration the important role that civilian defense workers, the National Guard, and reservists have in ensuring our nation's readiness capabilities. The letter echoes a similar request to Secretary Hagel made by Buck McKeon, the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The Pay Our Military Act [H.R. 3210], which was initiated by the House and signed into law Monday, September 30th, requires the Secretary of Defense to pay active duty military personnel. The law also gives the Secretary of Defense broad discretion regarding the pay of civilian defense workers, giving him the authority to keep civilian defense employees working should he choose to do so. "It is shameful that this Administration is even considering burdening civilian defense workers with more furloughs when they were already forced into six days without pay this past summer. It's fair to say they have paid more than their fair share for the federal government's irresponsible spending practices. The Administration needs to keep their hands off the pay of these hard workers who are all essential to supporting the warfighter and the common defense of our country, which is a primary function of the Federal Government under the Constitution. I join with many of my colleagues in urging the Administration and Secretary of Defense to keep civilian defense workers, the National Guard, and reservists working in defense of our country," said Bishop. The letter signed by Bishop requests that Secretary Hagel take into account the importance of civilian defense workers with regards to national defense and to use his power to not furlough their jobs and to continue their pay. "In July, the House passed a Defense appropriations bill for the coming year by a large bipartisan majority of 315 in favor to 109 against. The Senate has failed to act on this appropriations bill even though they have had months to do so. I urge the Democratic Senate leadership to move to act on this essential defense funding bill as well as other appropriations bills that have passed the House with bipartisan support to restore some order to the way we fund essential aspects of government. Senator Reid has been around long enough to realize that some of the biggest challenges we face today are the direct result of his lousy leadership," Bishop added.
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON-- Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined fellow House Republicans in support of a stop gap measure known as a Continuing Resolution (CR) that authorizes an extension of the current rate of funding for the federal government. The measure also includes a provision that will delay the implementation of Obamacare for one year. "I wish we were passing a bicamerally agreed upon budget today instead of yet another short-term continuing resolution. As long as Senator Reid continues to stymie the budget process, we have no choice but to pass emergency stop gap measures that keep the government running. This bill also addresses the reality that few Americans are ready for the implementation of one of the most intrusive and expensive policies to have ever been signed into law. Additionally, it repeals the medical device tax that is forcing companies to hire workers outside of the United States, killing jobs in Utah and many other states. Even the President has acknowledged that there are serious problems with Obamacare, which is why he has unilaterally implemented delays of certain parts of the law. It's troubling that in light of this, and the many problems emerging about the law, he has issued a veto threat of this continuing resolution. History illustrates that this type of governance does not result in a successful and thriving country. As George Santayana noted in his work, The Life of Reason, 'those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it.'," said Bishop. Congressman Bishop, chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, sought to include in the CR additional funding for the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Department of Agriculture's wildfire suppression and rehabilitation programs. Congressman Bishop also included a provision that would prevent construction of the current design for the official national memorial honoring former President Dwight D. Eisenhower until a resolution can be reached that addresses the project's many ongoing controversies. This provision would, among many things, help promote an alternative to the current design, which is projected to cost approximately $142 million.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON– On Tuesday, September 24th more than 180 high school students from around Utah's First Congressional District will participate in the 8th annual Education Conference held by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) at the Utah State Capitol. Each year, a select group of students from area high schools comes together at the Utah State Capitol to participate in discussions and case studies about current public policy, the legislative process, history, and elections. "I look forward to this event each year and, this year, I'm pleased to welcome students from Union High School who will be participating for the first time. The Education Conference is one of the few opportunities I have throughout the year where I get to step back into a teaching role—a job I enjoyed for nearly three decades. While text books do a good job of covering the basics of government, my goal with the education conference is to expand upon students' foundational knowledge by giving them a greater and more in-depth understanding of how government and elections work. Students and teachers from different schools have the opportunity to interact with one another and it is my experience that these types of collaborative learning events are a great addition to the traditional day in a classroom," said Bishop. WHAT: Annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop WHERE: Utah State Capitol Complex 350 N. State Street Salt Lake City, UT 84114 DATE: Tuesday, September 24th, 2013 TIME: 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. MDT *This event is open to the media Students were selected by their teachers for attendance at this event. Invitations were sent to all high schools and school districts located in the First Congressional District.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON– Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Resorting Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act [H.R. 1526.] Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee, was among the first supporters of this legislation when it was introduced in the House. The Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee held three hearings on the topic before it was brought to the House floor for a vote. The Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act will require the U.S. Forest Service to make available limited areas of our national forests for responsible timber development. As required by law since 1908, 25% of the timber receipts must go to the local counties where harvest activity occurs to help fund schools and local infrastructure. As fringe environmental policies have taken hold, timber harvests and shared revenues have dramatically reduced. "This legislation will help improve the overall health of many ailing National Forests. Over the course of the last century, the important mission of the U.S. Forest system seems to have faded from its original intention. There is a reason the U.S. Forest Service is part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Our forests are great places to visit, but they also serve as an important part of our local, state, and national economies," said Bishop. Active management and responsible timber production on federal commercial timber lands not only reduce fuel loads that contribute to catastrophic wildfires but ultimately help forests remain healthy and robust. Last year, wildfires burned 9.3 million acres, while the U.S. Forest Service only harvested approximately 200,000 acres. According to the U.S. Forest Service, 65-82 million acres of Forest Service land are at high risk of wildfires. "Improved management practices will help ensure that our national forests remain healthy and viable for generations to come. I'm also pleased that states and counties will have a more active role in helping to prevent catastrophic wildfires," Bishop added. This legislation also: --Limits the president's ability to unilaterally create national monuments in western Oregon. --Extends Stewardship Contracting Authority so that the Forest Service can continue partnerships with non-governmental groups who are better equipped to manage lands and habitat within designated forest areas. --Allows counties to actively manage portions of National Forest land through the creation of "Community Forest Demonstration Areas." --Extends Secure Rural Schools payments for an additional year to allow new forest management policies to be implemented.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON – After voting to support the Continuing Resolution to fund the government and defund Obamacare, Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chris Stewart (UT-02) and Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) released the following statement: "We were pleased to vote in favor of the House of Representatives Continuing Resolution, which does two important things—defunds Obamacare and keeps the government open and operational. Defunding and repealing Obamacare – one of the most destructive and expensive laws ever passed – is the first step in fixing our health care system in ways that enhance personal freedom and reduce the role of government. We hope Senate Republicans will preserve the defunding language, pass the bill, and send it to the President. The fight is and has always been in the Senate. We encourage them to get this done and bring final resolution to this growing problem."
09.12.2013	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in response to the President's remarks on Syria: "After attending classified briefings and having given serious consideration to the Administration's proposal, I believe it is in the best interest of the United States to refrain from taking military action in Syria. The President's handling of this matter has created far more questions than have been answered. Much remains unclear about our goals and how we would ultimately define success and that seems to be due to the fact that the President and his advisers are still trying to figure it out."
08.06.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today issued the following response regarding U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel's decision to reduce furlough days for civilian defense workers from 11 days to six days through the remainder of the fiscal year. Bishop, who opposed the defense sequester, has aggressively challenged the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) on its decision to implement furloughs. Most recently, Congressman Bishop met with Under Secretary Robert Hale to discuss the DOD's justification for furloughing employees at working capital fund depots, including Ogden Air Logistics Complex. Bishop also succeeded in passing an amendment that would prohibit civilian defense employees paid out of working capital funds from being furloughed. "Secretary Hagel is validating what many of us thought all along- that furloughing civilian defense workers, particularly Air Force workers, could have been avoided. I realize that after three rounds of draconian cuts to the Defense budget, the U.S. Department of Defense had to make cuts just about everywhere possible. However, there were early indications, particularly following congressional action, that furloughs may not actually be necessary and that cuts could be absorbed in other areas. The continued reduction of days from 22, to 11, to six illustrates that this is likely the case. After many meetings with military leaders and Pentagon officials it was clear that the Administration's decision to proceed with furloughs was based more on politics than the law or actual need and it's concerning that they played politics with the livelihoods of hard working Americans. If Secretary Hagel wants to do the right thing, he should reduce furlough days to zero. Six is certainly better than 22 but zero is the ultimate goal."
07.25.2013	By Antone Clark, Standard-Examiner correspondent WASHINGTON — An amendment sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop, R-Utah, and passed by the House late Tuesday night will prevent the furlough of some civilian Department of Defense employees working at the Ogden Air Logistics Complex at Hill Air Force Base. The amendment strengthens rules for workers paid by the self-sustaining Defense Working Capital Fund and would make them ineligible for furloughs initiated by sequestration cutbacks. Employees at capital fund depots are paid from fees customers pay, not from federal appropriations. The potential change affects workers at Hill Air Force Base, where about 11,000 civilian employees are furloughed for a total of up to 11 days until Sept. 30. "Furloughing these employees not only violates the law, but it's costing the DOD and taxpayers additional money by delaying production and increasing overhead," Bishop said. He said furloughing employees at the logistics complex will not yield any direct savings and could actually end up costing money. "We must also take into consideration the impact it will have on readiness. I'm proud that the House passed this important amendment, which will ensure that the DOD cannot arbitrarily interpret or overlook federal laws," the Brigham City Republican said. Bishop and Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., met with Under Secretary Robert Hale on Tuesday to point out the illegality of furloughing civilian DOD employees at working fund depots under sequestration cutbacks. Furloughs spurred by sequestration started July 8, with 650,000 defense employees taking the first of 11 required furlough days as part of $85 billion budget cuts. Bishop's spokeswoman, Melissa Subbotin, said the DOD may still implement furloughs of direct federal employees in the event they determine such actions are necessary, such as workload reductions associated with original budget cuts or changes associated with U.S. military efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. The OO-ALC at Hill is charged with performing maintenance on a number of Air Force weapons systems, including the F-16, the A-10 Thunderbolt, the B-2 and the LGM-30G Minuteman III systems. The center also handles landing gear systems, conventional munitions and composite materials.
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON–Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved an amendment to the 2014 National Defense Appropriations Act that would strengthen the laws governing working capital funds, and the employees associated with the fund. A component of the Ogden Air Logistics Center operates under a working capital fund (WCF). Specifically, the amendment will prevent funds from being used to implement the furlough of Department of Defense employees who are paid from the working capital fund account. The DOD may still implement furloughs of direct federal employees in the event that they determine such actions are necessary, such as work load reductions associated with original budget cuts or changes associated with U.S. military efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. "Furloughing these employees not only violates the law, but it's costing the DOD and taxpayers additional money by delaying production and increasing overhead. I recognize that the DOD faces a significant challenge in finding ways to absorb these cuts given that its budget has been drastically reduced three times in the past five years. However, furloughing these employees will not yield direct savings and may actually end up costing money. We must also take into consideration the impact it will have on readiness. I'm proud that the House passed this important amendment, which will ensure that the DOD cannot arbitrarily interpret or overlook federal laws," said Bishop. Working capital funds are revolving funds that operate on a break-even basis by charging the military for services rendered. Revenues from the sale of goods and services to customers, which in this case is the U.S. military, cover all costs involved in providing those goods and services, including direct and indirect overhead costs. According to Section 129 of Title 10 of the U.S. Code, employees of the working capital fund are indirect government employees and the salaries of these employees are not paid directly through federal appropriations. Therefore, these employees would continue to work during a shutdown of the federal government or during federal furloughs. Furloughing these employees is a direct violation of the U.S. Code, including Section 2472 of Title 10.
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), and others today met with U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) Under Secretary Robert Hale to discuss the DOD's justification for furloughing employees at Working Capital Fund depots, including Ogden Air Logistics Complex. Based on current law and the DOD's terms for working capital funds, employees paid through the self-sustaining fund should be exempt from furloughs. However, the DOD has stated that they "believe" furloughs of working capital fund civilians are permissible. Bishop, Majority Whip McCarthy, and other House Members requested today's meeting to get more details about the DOD's interpretation of the statute and then to argue against the justification for implementing furloughs on this unique group of civilian employees. Bishop brought Title 10 Section 2472 of the federal code to the attention of Under Secretary Hale, which clearly states that: The civilian employees of the Department of Defense, including the civilian employees of the military departments and the Defense Agencies, who perform, or are involved in the performance of, depot-level maintenance and repair workloads may not be managed on the basis of any constraint or limitation in terms of man years, end strength, full-time equivalent positions, or maximum number of employees. Such employees shall be managed solely on the basis of the available workload and the funds made available for such depot-level maintenance and repair. Bishop noted in the meeting that furloughing working capital fund civilian employees is a clear violation of the law. Under Secretary Hale appeared to confirm to Bishop that the DOD simply made a policy decision irrespective of the law because in their opinion it was the right thing to do. "The law is clear. The DOD may think it's the right policy decision but they do not have the authority to interpret the law as they see fit. I am frustrated by the meeting, which failed to provide any clear or positive resolution to this matter. I do not agree with the DOD's interpretation of the statute nor do I agree with the notion that they can pick and choose which laws they want to follow. I recognize that implementing furloughs on so many hard-working Americans is not an easy thing to do. However, it is wrong to penalize employees who, as it appears, should not be subject to furloughs in the first place. It is clear that we have no other recourse than to take further action. I hope to address this during this week's consideration of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act" said Bishop. Bishop voted against sequestration, citing concerns over the detrimental impact it would have to national defense. He also supported House legislation that would have prevented sequestration from being implemented at the U.S. Department of Defense. On June 21, 2013, Bishop joined with both House Democrats and Republicans in bringing the matter concerning working capital fund civilians to the attention of U.S. Secretary of Defense Charles Hagel. The letter questioned the DOD's justification for implementing furloughs on civilians paid through this specific fund. Bishop received a response letter from Under Secretary Hale on behalf of Secretary Hagel on July 5, 2013. According to the DOD's interpretation of the statute, they "believe" furloughs of working capital fund civilians are permissible. Letter from Congressman Bishop to Secretary of Defense Hagel here Read letter to Congressman Bishop from Under Secretary Hale here
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON– The U.S. House of Representatives today approved 26 amendments to the Student Success Act [H.R. 5], three of which were sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01). The three amendments sponsored by Bishop to H.R. 5 remove the mandate for federally prescribed teacher evaluations, prohibit the federal government from bypassing state authority and directly funding local districts through grants, and allow Title I funding to follow students to any public school of their choosing. Prior to being elected to Congress, Bishop taught public school in the state of Utah for 28 years.Amendment #67: Offered by Congressman Bishop and Congressman Steve Scalice (LA-01) removes the federal mandate set-forth by the Student Success Act for states to conduct federally prescribed teacher evaluations. "The best evaluations come from parents and if the federal government is establishing what the requirements must be, then parents and teachers are cut off from having any input. These decisions must be made at the local level and never in Washington, D.C. States and local school officials know their teachers and students best, and it is not the role of the federal government to tell states how to develop and implement teacher evaluations. I can say firsthand that if we want students to excel academically, we have to give teachers greater flexibility and stop Washington from interfering. The full text of the amendment can be found here Amendment #76: Offered by Congressman Rob Bishop eliminates a provision that would allow the federal government to bypass state authority and directly fund local districts through grants. States are responsible for ensuring that each school district upholds state education requirements. Without eliminating this provision, rogue districts could bypass state policy and provisions and could then report directly to the federal government. This is a wrong process to allow. "The federal government should not have a direct relationship with local school districts. The state and federal relationship is very specific and intentional, and it should remain this way. Funding is one of the most challenging components of public education and it's important that there be continuity in the way it is managed and administered from the federal government to the states. To cut the state out of the equation would hurt their ability to have adequate oversight of programs and institutions in each district." The full text of the amendment can be found here Amendment # 36: Offered by Congressman Rob Bishop and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07) will allow Title I funding to follow a student to any public education institution, should the state choose to allow it. The federal government has no process for fairly distributing money to states. The state of Utah, for example, addresses this by equalizing funding so that the funding follows each student. The current antiquated distribution formula for Title I allow some schools to get a lot of money and other schools to get nothing. This amendment not only improves the current distribution for Title I, but also enables each student to have greater options for their education. "The current distribution formula does not function properly. Funding should follow the students so that the Title I program functions as it was intended. Every child should have the opportunity to attend the school that best meets their academic needs, regardless of socioeconomic status. The goal is to give every child the opportunity to learn, excel, and reach his or her full potential." The full text of the amendment can be found here
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON—Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell today testified before the House Natural Resources Committee. During the hearing, Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) highlighted recently released emails between Department of Interior staff from September-December 2011 that have led to questions about the lack of real scientific data and legal analyses used in the production of BLM's 2011 "Report on National Greater Sage-Grouse Conservation Measures" presented by the Sage-grouse National Technical Team (NTT). Click here to view questioning during hearing "It is clear that the science used to guide new federal policies on sage grouse in the West is questionable at best. It is clear that there is a lack of continuity between science and the Department's preferred policies. In reviewing the emails I was surprised to see that policies were being developed despite there not being sufficient science illustrating a need. It's concerning that the DOI does not appear to be seriously considering Utah's sage grouse management plan when there is clear turmoil on this matter within the Department itself. States, not the federal government, consistently demonstrate that they are more capable than the federal government of managing and preserving their wildlife and natural resources. I am pleased that Secretary Jewell stated that Utah will be included in the six-month delay of the Gunnison sage grouse decision and I will reiterate my call for a longer term delay in the Department's rushed Greater sage grouse effort to allow adequate time for the state of Utah's plan to be implemented," said Bishop. In December 2012, former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar made a point to defend the administration's policy on sage grouse stating that: "The NTT report provides a summary of the best available scientific information for the conservation of sage grouse within the framework of the BLM's planning process. As such, it is an excellent reference." In addition to those highlighted today during today's hearing by Congressman Bishop, he noted the following excerpts as being additionally concerning. From: Robin A. Sell To: Raul Morales Subject: NTT Science Review Date: September 16, 2011 "I don't feel like we really got into the current science out there on sage grouse. "I would like to propose that the researchers and biologists on NTT- maybe a few other bios if appropriate- meet again the next few months for about 3 days to have a frank discussion on various studies/papers out there… the good, bad, & ugly so to speak. It would not have to hold up the current document we have worked on- the Policy and Regional ID teams can continue to work on their tasks- but a more concentrated and defensible overview of the science would be great justification for the RMP effort and an invaluable tool for more localized NEPA and project/management implementation. It would also help Colorado and Utah with the upcoming Gunnison Sage Grouse listing – we will be referencing the same data sources anyway." From: Raul Morales To: Edwin Roberson Subject: Draft NTT report Date: November 07, 2011 "The outside scientists only reviewed the Conservation Measures section of the report and not the Policy recommendations. Our team also only addressed the quick comments made by the science team. Some of the ‘longer' term comments made by the science team were not addressed and can be discussed by the National Policy Team at some point to determine the need for our conservation measures to address some of the science "shortfalls" brought up by the science team." From: Ray Brady To: BLM employees Subject: Re: Planning IM and NTT Report Date: December 20, 2011 "Page 11 makes reference to only a few literature citations that attempt to portray the impacts of rights-of-ways on sage grouse. There really are no studies that have been completed that show this direct correlation…" From: Jim Perry To: Raul Morales and Dwight Fielder Subject: Re: NTT Report and Transmittal Letter Date: December 22, 2011 "Am I missing something, is it worded poorly, or is this a misapplication of professional judgment and science?" From: Dwight Fielder To: Pat Deilbert, Raul Morales and others Subject: Re: Follow up to Today's NPT call on the NTT report Date: December 21, 2011 "But, does the NTT really want to recommend something that is blatantly illegal?"
07.16.2013	WASHINGTON—The United States Air Force announced this week that it will restore some flight training for operational F-16 units, including the 388th Fighter Wing at Utah's Hill Air Force Base. The Administration's two rounds of cuts to the Department of Defense's budget coupled with cuts from sequestration required the Air Force to reduce pilot training hours, jeopardizing certification of both pilots and planes. "This is encouraging news. Ultimately, I would like to see the full restoration of flight training hours. Addressing the degradation done to readiness over the last three months will take some time but I am pleased that we are starting that process. It's certainly better than the status quo and it's just unfortunate that we continue to have to find ways to triage the mistakes made by the President. I intend to keep working to help find ways for the DOD to restore normal training operations throughout all national defense programs so that our nation's military can return to combat mission ready status," said Congressman Bishop.
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON– The U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) today responded to a letter from Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and 30 other Members of Congress requesting that U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel explain how the DOD justifies furloughing civilian defense workers who are paid by the self-sustaining "Defense Working Capital" fund. "My understanding is that the Operations and Maintenance accounts have sufficient funding through the end of this Fiscal Year to cover existing depot maintenance obligations. I am awaiting the investigation from the General Accountability Office (GAO) and if this can be verified, it will illustrate that these furloughs could have been avoided and that the Administration is playing politics with the livelihoods of hard working Americans. Beyond that, however, it appears as though these employees should be exempt from furloughs based on the way working capital funds are administered. The workload is there and is fully funded and applying furloughs delays programs and increases costs beyond savings of the unnecessary furloughs. The Administration may think they have carte blanche authority to interpret the laws however they want, but we will continue to challenge their assessment of the rule and hold them accountable for their decisions. I don't agree with their interpretation of the rule and intend to pursue this matter further on behalf of all working capital fund civilian workers," said Bishop. The letter, sent this week by Under Secretary of Defense (comptroller) Robert F. Hale, stated: "The DOD believes short-term furloughs of working capital fund civilians – who are indirectly funded Government employees – are permissible under that statute [section 129 title 10, United States Code]." The letter sent to Secretary Hagel on July 1, 2013 questioned whether the DOD views employees at Working Capital fund depots, including Ogden Air Logistics Complex, to be "indirectly funded government employees of the Department of Defense." Based on the DOD's terms of working capital funds, it appears that employees paid through the self-sustaining fund should be exempt from furloughs. However, the letter sent by Under Secretary Hale conflicts with this widely viewed assessment of the statute. Letter from Congressman Bishop to Secretary of Defense Hagel here Read letter to Congressman Bishop from Under Secretary Hale here
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON—The U.S. Department of Interior's office of Inspector General today released a report that details the U.S. Park Police's mismanagement of hundreds if not thousands of weapons. Deputy inspector general Mary Kendall wrote that "We found credible evidence of conditions that would allow for theft and misuse of firearms, and the ability to conceal the fact if weapons were missing." Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the National Parks Service issued the following statement in response to the report: "There seems to be a serious lack of oversight that needs to be remedied immediately. I am shocked by the Department's sloppy accounting practices and such mismanagement could lead to weapons falling into the wrong hands here in the U.S. and abroad. That's a risk we simply cannot afford to take. I am curious as to how this was allowed to happen in the first place, and hope the Administration will take steps to fix this." US Park Police lost track of huge supply of weapons, report says Published June 28, 2013 FoxNews.com The U.S. Park Police has lost track of a huge supply of handguns, rifles and shotguns, according to a report released Thursday on the law enforcement agency responsible for safeguarding the National Mall and critical American landmarks. In the scathing report, the inspector general's office of the Department of Interior faults staff at the agency for having no idea how many weapons they control and says the department has no clear policies or procedures for investigating missing weapons. The office said top managers, including the police chief, have shown a "lackadaisical attitude toward firearms management." "Historical evidence indicates that this indifference is a product of years of inattention to administrative detail and management principles," deputy inspector general Mary Kendall wrote to Jonathan Jarvis, the director of the National Park Service, in a letter that accompanies the report. While surveying Park Police field office armories, investigators found more than 1,400 extra and unassigned weapons that were intended to be destroyed. They also found 198 handguns that were transferred from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and stored in an operations facility firearms room without being recorded in an inventory system. Investigators also found that an officer who had been detailed to President Obama's inauguration in January retained a semi-automatic rifle without permission and stored it at his home. Another officer stored a shotgun at his home in San Francisco without permission, according to the report. "We found credible evidence of conditions that would allow for theft and misuse of firearms, and the ability to conceal the fact if weapons were missing," Kendall wrote. The report, which was first reported by The Washington Post, concluded that the agency failed to fully investigate weapons it could not account for, including 18 pistols, shotguns, and rifles that were entered into a national database as missing or stolen. As recently as April 2013, two automatic rifles were discovered during a firearms search at the agency's aviation unit for which officials had no prior knowledge, the report states. The watchdog agency said its report was triggered by an anonymous tip suggesting that the Park Police could not account for government-issued military-style weapons. A spokesman for the agency did not immediately return an email seeking comment, and an evening shift commander said he hadn't seen the report and couldn't discuss it. The report also includes 10 recommendations to improve firearms management. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) is pleased to announce the winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. This year's top honor was awarded to Breanna Eldredge of Vernal, Utah for her artwork titled "Baby Blue Eyes" "I enjoyed visiting with Breanna and her parents Deah and Clyde while they were in Washington, D.C. for the official unveiling of the artwork in the U.S. Capitol. Breanna is a talented artist and I am proud to have her artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol representing Vernal and Utah's 1st Congressional District," said Congressman Rob Bishop. The Congressional Art Competition is held annually in every congressional district across the country. High school students are invited to participate in the competition and the first place winner from each congressional district will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol Building. In addition, the winning student is invited to participate in the official unveiling of the winning artwork.
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON–Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with colleagues on both sides of the aisle today in calling on U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to reconsider the U.S. Department of Defense's (DOD) decision to furlough defense civilian employees who are paid by the self-sustaining "Defense Working Capital" fund. The letter questions whether the DOD views employees at Working Capital fund depots, including Ogden Air Logistics Complex, to be "indirectly funded government employees of the Department of Defense," because if they are, then it appears that they should be exempt from sequestration. "Based on the DOD's terms of working capital funds, it appears that employees paid through the self-sustaining fund should be exempt from furloughs. I am eager to hear Secretary Hagel's response and interpretation of the employees paid out of the working capital fund. Besides the legal matter concerning their furloughs, cutting the time of depot employees delays the products getting back to the warfighter and will ultimately increase overall costs. This is counterproductive if the goal of sequestration is to reduce costs and spending," said Bishop.
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee, announced his opposition to President Obama's sweeping climate change proposal. Similar to Cap and Trade, which failed in the 111th Congress when Democrats controlled the House and Senate, the new proposal would seek to place new regulations on energy production and would pick winners and losers among the types of energy produced in this country. Alternatively, Bishop supports an "all of the above" approach to energy production. "Once again we see the President capitulating to the whims of special interest group allies who are frustrated with both Republican and Democratically controlled Congresses refusal to give them the carte blanche treatment they think they deserve. Disfavor with the speed or manner in which Congress takes up issues is not suitable justification for the President to unilaterally impose sweeping new policies, especially ones that will change the course of energy production in this country," said Bishop. The Sierra Club began laying the groundwork for this announcement over five months ago, which The Hill newspaper noted in a January 14, 2013 story, which stated: "With the House still under GOP control, Sierra Club is urging Obama to take matters into his owns hands. Mary Anne Hitt, director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, said Obama could bypass Congress by issuing regulations to enhance clean-energy investment and curtail carbon emissions." – Coleman, Zack (2013, Jan. 14). Sierra Club urges Obama to wield ‘full executive authority' against climate change. The Hill [link] "This announcement flies in the face of the open and public Congressional process, which, whether the President likes it or not, exists because of our Constitution. If the president wants to legislate he should have stayed in the Senate. As a former high school history teacher, it concerns me that the President has already forgotten that this type of unilateral governance has failed throughout history and there is a reason we have three branches of government, not just one," Bishop added.
06.21.2013	WASHINGTON– On June 11, 2013 the Sierra Club held an event in Moab, Utah to promote the establishment of a new national monument known as Greater Canyonlands. The Sierra Club's executive director Michael Brune stated before an audience in Moab that he is "100% certain" that a monument would be created unilaterally by President Obama through his use of the Antiquities Act. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who has launched a new Public Lands Initiative in eastern Utah that focuses on land use through a collaborative process, announced his disappointment with Michael Brune's statements. "A diverse group of stakeholders has come together to work toward finding solutions for ongoing public land policies that have stymied progress for decades. These conversations have been overwhelmingly positive and have the potential to provide new conservation areas as well as opportunities for new economic development. This process, which is being driven at the local level, is ongoing and requires continued cooperation amongst all participants. Mr. Brune's statement that a unilateral monument designation is the ‘the best and most politically viable way' undermines the collaborate effort and to suggest that he is ‘100%' certain a new national monument will be designated in Utah is further harmful to the process. Fortunately, the Utah Public Lands Initiative is bigger than just one Washington, D.C. politico and while Mr. Brune may continue to lobby for a unilateral policy out of Washington, the rest of us will continue to work together along with Utah communities to build consensus around new and responsible land policies. Any other approach ignores the diverse interests of the many different land-users," said Congressman Bishop.
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) today introduced the Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success Act (A-PLUS) [H.R. 2456]. The legislation allows states to opt out of the prescriptive programmatic requirements of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) by presenting a five-year declaration of intent to the U.S. Secretary of Education. States would then be exempt from NCLB programs and federal funding would be block granted for lawful education purposes that the state determined to be beneficial for districts, schools, and students. Congressman Bishop taught public school in Utah for 28 years. "As a former teacher I can attest to the fact that No Child Left Behind is the wrong approach to improving education standards in this country. It's overly prescriptive and limits teachers' ability to address the unique needs of their students. This nation is simply too great, too broad, and too diverse for one set of ideas to rule from coast to cast. California is not Kansas. Alabama is not Alaska, and Massachusetts is not Utah. Yet, through the eyes of No Child Left Behind, each state is the same and the educational needs of the students are addressed the same way," said Congressman Bishop. States must have the approval of at least two state entities, which include the Governor, state legislature, and state education agency. Upon garnering the approval, states may only then submit the declaration of intent to the U.S. Department of Education. "No Child Left Behind is misguided and ought to be abandoned and replaced by a common sense alternative like the A-PLUS Act. This legislation gives states, teachers, and parents greater autonomy and accountability," Bishop added. The following requirements will be made of states that present the U.S. Department of Education with the five-year declaration of intent: · States must demonstrate increased academic achievement for all students and narrow achievement gaps. · States must disaggregate performance data for various student demographic groups and provide a description of the state's accountability system to parents and the Secretary of Education. · States must also outline how they plan to improve education for disadvantaged students. · States are also required to meet all requirements of federal civil rights laws. A list of the legislation's House co-sponsors can be found HERE
06.19.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced his disapproval over President Barack Obama's announcement to make further reductions to the U.S.'s nuclear forces, bringing current U.S. nuclear deterrence capabilities to de-stabilizing levels. Reductions to the U.S. nuclear triad will likely include the Minuteman III land-based missiles, which are maintained at Ogden Air Logistics Center. In a February 2012 letter from Congressman Bishop and 33 other Members of Congress to President Obama regarding previous reductions to nuclear weapons systems, General Kevin Chilton former Commander of U.S. Strategic Command is quoted saying, "I think the arsenal that we have is exactly what is needed today to provide the deterrent." "President Obama is not Dick Cheney, and he is most certainly not President Reagan either. In fact, he's nothing like Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, or FDR who all recognized the importance of growing and improving upon national defense. Since no discussions have even started with Russia, and the President has no actual plan to implement the reductions, this appears to be more of a publicity stunt than any substantive plan for the U.S.'s future nuclear armament capabilities," said Bishop. "The President's idea to further diminish our nation's nuclear weapons systems seems to embrace and even encourage the decline of America as a superpower. Making further reductions to our defense systems could leave our country vulnerable, especially as other countries are aggressively advancing their weapons programs and nuclear capabilities. Our land, air, and sea defense systems are essential to the security of the United States and while we all wish we lived in a world free of nuclear weapons, the reality is that we don't. We need to have the ability to adequately defend our country and allies and today's decision will hurt our ability to do so. I remain concerned by the fact that the United States is far behind the curve of nuclear advancements, which is only exacerbated by the constant reductions to missile defense made by the current Administration. The U.S. weapons systems are antique compared to some of the modern technologies that have been developed by other countries, including Russia and China, in the last decade. We are not modernizing our arsenal to provide for future deterrence and today's announcement does nothing to address this. Cutting our nose off to spite our face isn't a sound national security plan."
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON–Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, today introduced the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act (H.R. 2398), which will address some of the current problems plaguing U.S. border security efforts. The bill specifically examines the role that federal land policies play in aiding drug trafficking and human smuggling into the U.S. "Taking up sweeping immigration reform is futile unless we address some of the biggest problems plaguing border security first. Right now environmental land management policies are trumping national security efforts. We have basically rolled out the welcome mat for drug cartels on federal lands because environmental policies restrict the U.S. Border Patrol's ability to secure some of the most heavily trafficked areas of the southern border," said Bishop. Specifically, H.R. 2398 gives the United States Border Patrol improved access to federal land located on the U.S. Border where current federal environmental policies restrict the U.S. Border Patrol's ability to patrol, deter, and apprehend drug smugglers and human traffickers. There are more than 20 million acres of U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) land along the southern U.S. Border. Current land management policies for these areas restrict the Border Patrol from having sufficient access. As a result, federal land along the border provides those wanting to enter our country illegally with virtually unfettered access. Many who enter the U.S. unlawfully are working for drug cartels, but the Border Patrol's lack of sufficient access to federal lands is contributing to the growing number of those that remain in our country illegally. "At some point we are going to have to take actual steps to fix the problem. Failing to address the role that federal lands play with regards to illegal entrance into this country makes any immigration bill useless because the problem will still exist. The irony is that while some are focusing their efforts solely on what to do with those already in the U.S., cartels continue to have nearly free reign on our federal lands and are causing severe environmental degradation in the process," Bishop added. "Current Senate legislation may take some good steps toward addressing the impact of environmental policies on border security, but it doesn't go far enough. We must do more and the time to act is now. It is my hope that the House will do more to sufficiently address this matter." The National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act: Prevents the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from impeding, prohibiting, or restricting the Department of Homeland Security's efforts to obtain operational control of the border. Provides the Department of Homeland Security with immediate access to federal lands necessary to provide the utmost security throughout the border region. Allows the U.S. Border Patrol to construct and maintain roads and place surveillance equipment in strategic areas that will assist in detecting and apprehending criminals. Allows the Department of Homeland Security to waive certain policies preventing them from obtaining full operational control of the border. -30-
06.14.2013	WASHINGTON–Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with his colleagues today in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2013 [H.R. 1960]. "Congress is required by the Constitution to provide for the common defense of the country. The National Defense Authorization Act is an essential component of our ability to fulfill this constitutional obligation," said Bishop. The National Defense Authorization Act is reviewed and voted on annually by Congress to provide funding for the U.S. Department of Defense's budget. Included in the FY2014 legislation are provisions that specifically facilitate defense related programs in Utah. These include: "Ensuring that Hill Air Force Base and other Utah military installations have the resources necessary to support our global defense systems is a key priority. I am glad that this legislation takes into consideration their important role in our national defense capabilities and that key provisions relating to Utah's installations were included in the final legislation," Bishop added. Camp Williams Land Transfer: Section 2843 directs the U.S. Department of the Interior (BLM) to transfer ownership of approximately 420 acres at Camp Williams to the State of Utah for use by the Utah National Guard for current and future military uses. This provision will complete the two-step process of conveying federal land in the Camp Williams growth corridor to the Utah National Guard. Congress previously authorized the transfer of U.S. Army land to the Utah National Guard. Francis Peak Radar Site Transfer: Included in section 2845, is a provision that provides for the transfer of the Francis Peak Radar Site owned by the Utah Air National Guard, to the State of Utah. The transfer will help provide for seamless and continued emergency communications (including 911 service to Davis county). Prevention of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC): As the Vice-Chairman of the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, Congressman Bishop strongly supported and advocated for language that would currently prohibit a new BRAC process. The language also prohibits the U.S. Department of Defense from using taxpayer funds to pre-study BRAC. Military Construction: Included in the bill is a new, high priority, fire station and hangar modification project at Hill Air Force Base, which will support the F-35 fighter. F-35 Fighter: The FY2014 legislation fully funds the Pentagon's request for the F-35 program, keeping it on track for Base-Ops 1 location at Hill AFB beginning in 2015. Depot Maintenance Funding: Congressman Bishop worked with Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) to maintain funding for depot maintenance work in Fy14, which is essential to our nation's military readiness capabilities. Military Training Ranges Nationwide: As both the Chairman of the National Parks and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, and as the Vice-Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, Congressman Bishop ensured the inclusion of provisions that will help ensure that the U.S. Military can continue to train on certain areas of public lands in the Western United States. Should these lands be withdrawn from use, the military would be forced to curtail certain training operations. These individual land provisions include: > Limestone Hills Training Area, Montana >White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico >Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, California >Chocolate Mountain Aerial Gunnery Range, California >Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms, California
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today announced that the U.S. Department of Interior will distribute approximately $35 million to the State of Utah through the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program to compensate for the lack of tax revenue that cannot be generated on federal lands. Infrastructure and vital community services such as, public schools, roads, and first responders are primarily funded through property tax revenue generated on private property. Counties that contain federal land lack this significant tax revenue and therefore the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program helps provide some compensation. "Less than one third of Utah is private land. This makes funding education and maintaining infrastructure and other community services difficult for many counties in the state. While PILT doesn't provide full compensation for the lack of tax revenue, it does provide some help for now. We need a long-term solution so that communities in Utah, and others throughout the West, have a dependable source of funding. Ideally, the land would be utilized in a way that provides greater support to the state. I'm actively exploring potential alternatives that would enable many communities in Utah to have more reliable revenue that more adequately funds their needs," said Congressman Bishop.
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. Department of Interior today announced that they will extend the public comment period for the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) proposed changes to the commercial oil shale regulations by an additional 30 days. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, submitted a letter to the Department of Interior on May 22, 2013 requesting that they extend the comment period to 120 days versus the 60 that the Department of Interior initially offered. The letter, led by Congressman Rob Bishop, noted that "Proper analysis and thoughtful input from interested stakeholders are absolutely critical in establishing a proper rate of structure and determining whether these regulations reduce the economic benefit of oil shale production." "I am pleased that the Department of Interior has reopened the comment period giving the public additional time to respond to the proposed new regulations. Extending it to the full 120 days would have been preferable, but this is certainly better than nothing," said Bishop. A diverse energy portfolio is important to our country's energy future. The western Unites States has more oil shale than any other country in the world and our nation must prioritize development in the same way they do in other countries."
06.12.2013	WASHINGTON– Today, the House Natural Resources Committee approved H.R. 1126, the Dwight. D. Eisenhower Memorial Completion Act, by voice vote. This legislation, sponsored by Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), seeks to build consensus around a new Eisenhower Memorial by implementing a new design competition and providing a three year extension of the memorial site designation, which is set to expire this year. "In examining the process undertaken by the current Commission to develop the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial we have discovered some very significant flaws," said Subcommittee Chairman Bishop. "This includes the selection process for the architect and the possible mismanagement of millions of federal dollars. If we don't make some changes and ensure an open, public process, millions of dollars will continue to be wasted without any significant progress being made. A new commission and a new design competition is the right way forward as we work toward developing a fitting tribute to the legacy of one of our nation's greatest leaders." The current design and competition process has been the subject of repeated scrutiny, including by members of the Eisenhower family who are opposed to the current design. At a Subcommittee hearing last March, Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of President Eisenhower, expressed concern that the cost, scale, and design of the planned Memorial are not in keeping with President Eisenhower's values and do not enjoy a consensus of support. Since 1999, Congress has appropriated $63 million in taxpayer funds for the design of the Memorial and operations of the Commission, and the Commission has requested an additional $51 million in Fiscal Year 2014 to begin construction.
06.11.2013	WASHINGTON–Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Fruit Heights Land Conveyance Act [H.R. 993], which would transfer 100 acres of U.S. Forest Service (USFS) land to the city of Fruit Heights in Davis County, Utah. The land will be used to establish a cemetery for the city, which currently relies on neighboring Kaysville, Utah for burials. Due to growth in Kaysville's population, Fruit Heights has been notified that its residents will no longer be able to be interred in the Kaysville cemetery. The legislation must now be passed by the U.S. Senate before it becomes law. "I am pleased that Fruit Heights is one step closer to having a local cemetery. Having over 65% of the land in Utah owned by the federal government poses some unique challenges for cities like Fruit Heights that must expand in order to meet growing needs. I am glad the House did the right thing for Fruit Heights and I hope the Senate will recognize the importance of passing this legislation," said Bishop.
06.07.2013	WASHINGTON– The U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife announced today that the Gray Wolf would finally be removed from the list of endangered species. They also announced that the Mexican Wolf would remain on the list of endangered species and the proposal notes that recovery efforts for this subspecies will be expanded, though expansion will not occur within the state of Utah. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, has championed efforts to have the Grey Wolf delisted as an endangered species and is pleased with today's announcement. "The delisting of the Gray Wolf is long overdue and states are more than ready to manage the wolf populations," said Bishop. "For quite some time, the Gray Wolf has been ‘recovered' and the issues with their being listed as an endangered species has limited states from employing responsible management practices, thus allowing the wolves to terrorize public land users and other animal species. I am pleased that states will now be able to actively manage the Gray Wolf population in a way that is beneficial to the wolf population as well as public land users, the sportsmen's community, and all those whose livelihoods have been impacted by the current listing," said Bishop. Further information about the U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife's decision to delist the Gray Wolf can be found here.
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. Department of Interior today announced that they will extend the public comment period for the proposed new hydraulic fracturing regulations on public lands an additional 60 days. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, submitted a letter to Secretary Sally Jewell on May 23, 2013 requesting that the Department of Interior extend the comment period to 120 days versus the 30 that the Department of Interior initially offered. Similarly, Bishop has requested that Secretary Jewell extend the comment period on the proposed oil shale regulations from 60 days to a full 120 days. [letter here] "I am pleased that Secretary Jewell heeded our request for an extension. Thirty days was far too brief and while we had hoped for 120 days total, 90 is better than no extension at all. Input from the American people is not something that should be exempt from the policies created by Washington bureaucrats. The mere notion that a federal bureaucrat is better suited to determine what is best for this country rather than the hardworking people on the ground is ridiculous. I hope that the Department of Interior heavily considers the input they are receiving. One of this Administration's biggest downfalls is that they operate in a vacuum far too often. I hope Secretary Jewell manages her agency differently than that," said Congressman Bishop.
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) along with Senator Orrin Hatch (UT), Senator Mike Lee (UT), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), and Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02) today met with U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Mark Welsh to discuss several key issues important to Utah's military installations, especially civilian defense worker furloughs and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Following the meeting with Air Force Chief of Staff General Welsh, Congressman Bishop, Congressman Stewart, and Senator Lee met with Air Combat Commander General Mike Hostage. "I appreciated the chance to talk personally with the Air Force Chief of Staff General Welsh about the detrimental impact that furloughs of civilian defense workers will have at Hill Air Force Base. General Welsh agreed that the planned furloughs ordered by Secretary Hagel will unfortunately be disruptive and costly to our dedicated civilian workforce. He pledged to continue to work with the delegation and Pentagon Leadership on trying to find ways to mitigate those impacts as much as possible," said Bishop. "Our meeting with Air Combat Commander General Mike Hostage was positive and reaffirmed that the Utah Test and Training Range remains vitally important to the future of Hill Air Force Base and is essential to the strengthening of our nation's defense capabilities. General Hostage, who flew and served as a unit commander at the UTTR and Hill AFB, spoke highly about Utah's role in the future of the Air Force," Bishop added. -30-
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation held an oversight hearing featuring testimony by Utah Governor Gary Herbert, Chairman of the Western Governors' Association. The hearing highlighted the challenges of western states regarding federal and state land management. At the hearing, Members and Governor Herbert discussed how states are able to find their own solutions to land management, tailored to their unique circumstances. In contrast, the federal government is bound by a statutory and regulatory framework that keeps them from effective land management. Utah and other states are successfully managing their lands in ways that protect natural resources and promote a healthy economy, and protect public access. "Governor Herbert illustrated during today's hearing that states are effectively and efficiently managing the lands and resources located within their borders and can handle this in the future," said Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01). "As we heard today, the federal government isn't always the better option and as federal budgets get appropriately tighter, we ought to begin examining redundancies between state and federal land management programs. Frankly, the federal government is so often more of a hindrance than a help. If we want to get serious about responsible development of our resources, better land management practices, and real recovery of wildlife species, we ought to be looking more to the states for solutions and not to federal bureaucrats in Washington. I appreciate Governor Herbert's insight and it is encouraging to see that states are truly leading the way. It is my hope that Washington will finally wake up and see that states are better suited to deal with many of the issues which Washington has managed poorly over the years." "Sadly, we have strayed far from this vision of states as independent and robust policy innovators," said Gov. Gary Herbert, UT. "No one understands state challenges and demographics better than the people who reside and govern there. No one is more committed to the most effective use of limited resources for the best possible outcome, for both our lands and our citizens, than those who will directly live with the consequences of those decisions." Governor Herbert also highlighted how poor federal government management has impacted the health of our national forests and public lands. "National Parks have an estimated $11 billion maintenance backlog. The U.S. Forest Service has its own multi-billion dollar backlog," said Gov. Gary Herbert. "Meanwhile, millions of acres of national forests have fallen victim to bark beetles and other insect and disease plights and are at risk to catastrophic wildfire. At the same time, a good portion of our federal grazing lands throughout the West are in poor condition. All of these conditions have resulted in an increase in the number and complexity of wildfires, leading further to exponentially higher suppression costs. Unfortunately, federal land management agencies operate within a statutory and regulatory framework that keeps them from effectively addressing rapid declines in range and forest health. Similarly, federal land management decisions today are paralyzed by litigation. Often, special interest groups use the judicial process to simply delay in an attempt to either wear out or bankrupt the opposition. This leads to further gridlock and the infamous ‘analysis paralysis'."
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04) and Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) sent letters to the National Park Service, General Services Administration, and seeking information about the activities and costs associated with the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission and the current design and construction of the planned presidential Memorial in Washington, D.C. · Click here to view the letter to the National Park Service. · Click here to view the letter to the General Services Administration. · Click here to view the letter to the Eisenhower Memorial Commission. The current plan for the Memorial, created by architecture firm Gehry Partners, LLP, has faced intense scrutiny for both a poor, flawed design and potential construction and maintenance costs. Subcommittee Chairman Bishop has introduced legislation, the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Completion Act, that would implement a new design competition and eliminate nearly $100 million in future funding the Commission has said would be needed to build the Memorial as currently designed. The bill would also provide a three-year extension of the site designation approved by Congress in 2006, which included a seven-year sunset on the site. At a Subcommittee hearing last March, Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of President Eisenhower, expressed concern that the cost, scale, and design of the planned Memorial are not in keeping with President Eisenhower's values and do not enjoy a consensus of support. Since 1999, Congress has appropriated $63 million in taxpayer funds for the design of the Memorial and operations of the Commission, and the Commission has requested an additional $51 million in Fiscal Year 2014 to begin construction. "Many outstanding questions remain about the accounting of millions of taxpayer dollars, and a full accounting of the funds is necessary before we can move forward with this project in any way. Right now, the accountability of the Commission and the integrity of the process remain in question, and I look forward to the responses to these letters. The bottom line is that the Eisenhower Memorial must be an appropriate and fitting tribute to one of our nation's greatest leaders and it must be done the right way," said Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop. In the letters, the Chairmen seek specific information on how appropriated funds for the Memorial and Commission have already been spent and clarification on the costs and future liabilities that could result if the Commission were to move forward with the current design. "Tens of millions of taxpayer dollars have already been spent on a design that is inherently flawed and does not even have the support of President Eisenhower's family. These letters seek to hold these agencies and the Commission accountable and provide greater clarity of how this money has been spent. Meanwhile, I will continue to work with Rep. Bishop to move forward with his legislation to seek a new design and build consensus around constructing an appropriate memorial for President Eisenhower," said Chairman Doc Hastings.
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) today released updated draft regulations of hydraulic fracturing on public lands. The draft rule will only be open for public comment during the next 30 days. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the new draft regulations: "The existing regulatory system already works. State-led efforts, as well as the practices of energy producers, have already proven to ensure the safe and responsible development of our nation's oil and gas resources. Their record illustrates this point. These new rules are duplicative and serve only to hinder energy development. The Department of Interior would be better served directing its efforts toward ensuring that our country is self-sufficient with regards to energy supplies so we can stop importing from unstable foreign countries."
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy Development Act [H.R. 356], which was introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) on January 23, 2013. The legislation would facilitate the exchange of approximately 20,000 acres of state-held mineral rights within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation for mineral rights on approximately 20,000 acres of land in the northern portion of the reservation. This long-sought exchange will preserve tribal cultural lands located within the southern part of the Reservation while also providing new opportunities for energy development further north away from cultural and environmentally sensitive areas. "I am pleased that we are one step closer to making this long-sought exchange a reality for the Ute tribe and the State of Utah. This bill balances the unique interests of both the Ute tribe and the State of Utah. With this legislation we accomplish the goals of protecting both sensitive tribal lands and the state's and tribe's ability to generate funding for public education and other vital needs," said Bishop. Congressman Jim Matheson (UT-04), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), and Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02), as well as Senator Mike Lee (Utah), are original co-sponsors of the legislation.
05.14.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) today announced that civilian defense employees will face 11 furlough days through the end of the fiscal year. Early projections estimated that civilian employees would be subject to as many as 22 furlough days when defense sequestration cuts kick in, but the official word today from Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel is that the days will be cut by half The Continuing Resolution passed by Congress in March to avoid a government shutdown and continue government operations through the remainder of the fiscal year included a provision that provided the DOD with increased flexibility to shift funds within its current budget. This increased flexibility was intended to help alleviate some aspects of sequestration, including furloughs. "There is absolutely no reason why hard-working defense civilian employees must shoulder the burden of this Administration's record of bad decisions. These furloughs are among the many reasons I voted against sequestration in the first place. While I don't oppose efforts to reduce spending in many other areas of the federal government, I strongly oppose the defense sequester. Congress and the President both have a constitutional responsibility to provide for the common defense and I find it troubling that the Commander in Chief has somehow overlooked his responsibility. Since taking office he seems to have made it a priority to weaken our nation's military and civilian support capabilities," said Bishop. Of the total $85 billion in cuts expected to occur during sequestration, half, or approximately $44 billion will come out of defense spending. Congressman Bishop voted against the Budget Control Act of 2011 that established the sequestration trigger. "Foisting off these furloughs as a cost-saving measure is disingenuous because they could be avoided entirely and are extremely disruptive. Funds provided in the March CR ought to have prevented this from happening and I am disappointed that the DOD went ahead with the furloughs anyway. I agree that the DOD should not be exempt from budgetary scrutiny but the President already made $800 billion in cuts to defense during his first term. Top military leaders say that further gutting of the defense budget could have severe consequences to national security. That's not something to be taken lightly," Bishop added. Congressman Bishop plans to examine the DOD's request to reprogram existing funds, which could help reduce the need for furloughs. -30-
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced that the recently passed Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 will not only allow the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to end employee furloughs, it will also keep all 149 FAA contract towers open, including the Ogden-Hinckley tower. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who has fought to keep the Ogden tower open and operational, issued the following statement: "I am pleased that Secretary LaHood announced that the Ogden-Hinckley air traffic control tower will remain open. This was the final confirmation we have been fighting and waiting for and I am pleased that the Administration made the right decision. The Ogden tower provides essential support to air traffic around Hill Air Force Base and to have closed it down would have been a serious mistake. Ensuring the safety of air spaces in and around critical air defense installations like Hill AFB ought to be a key priority," said Congressman Rob Bishop.
05.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Mike Lee and Rep. Rob Bishop released a letter they wrote to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta requesting information regarding conflicting statements about the decision to close the tower at Ogden-Hinckley Airport (OGD). The letter states that in March, Rep. Bishop wrote to Mr. Huerta at the FAA pointing out how the closure of the tower at OGD, located less than 3 miles away from Hill Air Force Base, would "result in significant negative safety impacts upon military flight operations and readiness", and asked if the FAA had considered these impacts. In April, write Lee and Bishop, "The FAA informed Senator Lee's office that DOD reviewed all 189 contract towers under consideration and provided no feedback on the tower closure at OGD." However, DOD did confirm to Lee's office that they had in fact provided a detailed report to the Department of Transportation, which oversees the FAA, listing the closure at OGD as having a "severe" impact on defense department operations. "Recently, it has come to our attention that DOD identified in their report to DOT and FAA 38 contract towers whose closures would result in a ‘severe impact to operations.' This list of severe impact' rated towers included Ogden-Hinckley Airport," wrote Lee and Bishop. Lee and Bishop have asked FAA to explain why their representatives told Lee's office they received no feedback when they had, and to describe the process of deciding which of the closures listed as "severe" would close and which would not. "We request that FAA explain why Senator Lee's office was told in response to the April 1, 2013 request that ‘there was no feedback provided' by DOD on the tower closure at OGD when in fact DOD had provided a detailed report to DOT on March 21, 2013 identifying 38 Contract Towers whose closures would result in a ‘severe impact to operations', including OGD. We also request an explanation for its decision regarding the closure of these Contract Towers, and specifically as it relates to those towers that DOD determined would have a severe impact on mission operations." They added, "Our highest priority is ensuring the safety of our service-members and those who utilize these Contract Towers. This is a serious matter and we request your attention and prompt reply." See the full letter here: http://www.lee.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases?ID=ee4bebaf-089e-4d52-9a26-750c0a02270b
05.01.2013	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today praised reports that Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood has said that 149 FAA towers, including Utah's Ogden and Provo towers, will be spared from closure. Last week, Bishop voted in support of legislation to give the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) greater flexibility to shift funding in order to support necessary programs and prevent furloughs. That legislation passed both the House and the Senate and the President is expected to sign it into law. Since the legislation does not directly prevent the closure of 149 air traffic control towers, Congressman Bishop has signed on to a letter urging Secretary LaHood to officially guarantee the towers will remain open and operational. Excerpt of the letter: This legislation gives the Federal Aviation Administration and the Department of Transportation flexibility to use unobligated funds to ensure the safety of our nation's air transportation system. The unobligated funds of the Airport Improvement Program account made available to the FAA through this legislation should be used to prevent the closure of the 149 contract air traffic control towers as well as halt the furloughs of our air traffic controllers. To ensure responsible action by FAA and DOT, and to ensure the safety and efficiency of our skies, the Congress has directed this reprogramming of funds by law. We expect to hear very soon how the FAA and DOT will take immediate steps to fund the 149 contract air traffic control towers. "I am very encouraged by Secretary LaHood's apparent statements about keeping the towers open. However verbal commitments seem to be broken by this Administration all the time and therefore, I will be more comfortable with a more official guarantee that the towers will in fact remain open," said Bishop. "The legislation passed by Congress gives the Department of Transportation and FAA greater flexibility to maintain essential operations, and that should definitely include the Ogden tower. The Ogden tower provides strategic assistance to flight operations and air traffic surrounding Hill Air Force Base. To close this tower would be a mistake and could be detrimental to air traffic around one of our nation's preeminent air defense facilities."
04.15.2013	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will discuss the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation (EPIC) of National Monuments Act [H.R. 1459] during a legislative hearing tomorrow. The EPIC Act was introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) to improve public participation in the establishment of National Monuments through the application of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). "Ensuring that the public has an opportunity to actively participate in the public lands designation process is the right thing to do. The Antiquities Act is a century-old law that gives any President the authority to simply designate new national monuments without public input. The law was originally intended to protect sites with historic significance, but is now being abused by some Presidents as a way to limit activities on public lands. The American people ought to have an opportunity to engage in the process. This legislation ensures that future designations are the result of collaboration at all levels rather than deals made within the executive branch alone," said Bishop. Specifically, the legislation: - Classifies national monument declarations under the Antiquities Act as a major federal action, which would require the application of NEPA - Allows for a temporary three-year, 5,000 acres or less "emergency" designation if there is an imminent threat to an American antiquity - Limits national monument declarations to no more than one per state during any four-year presidential term in office, unless otherwise approved by Congress - Prevents the inclusion of private property in monument declarations without the prior approval of property owners - Requires within one year of a declaration, a feasibility study and an estimated cost to taxpayers associated with managing the monument in perpetuity, including any loss of federal and state revenue Hearing Info: WHERE: Hearing Room1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. WHEN: Tuesday, April 16, 2013 10:00 a.m. EDT
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON–The U.S. Senate today officially confirmed President Obama's nomination of Sally Jewell as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior. House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today released the following statement regarding the confirmation: "Sally Jewell's business background could be beneficial to the Department of Interior, especially at a time when budgets are tight and we must be mindful of how taxpayer dollars are spent. I am hopeful that as she accepts this new public position, she will be mindful that the priorities she sought to advance on behalf of Recreational Equipment Inc. are not necessarily those of the entire United States. I wish her the best in this new endeavor."
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON– U.S. Representatives Bill Posey (R-FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), John Culberson (R-TX), Steve Stockman (R-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Ted Poe (R-TX) have once again reintroduced bipartisan legislation directing NASA to develop a plan for returning to the Moon and establishing a human presence there. The RE-asserting American Leadership in Space Act, or REAL Space Act, sets a clear course for NASA toward human space flight while keeping within current budgetary constraints. "The Moon is our nearest celestial body, taking only a matter of days to reach," said Rep. Bill Posey, who as a young man worked on the Apollo Program at the Kennedy Space Center. "In order to explore deeper into space—to Mars and beyond—a moon presence offers us the ability to develop and test technologies to cope with the realities of operating on an extraterrestrial surface." Rep. Rob Bishop said, "This legislation is not just about landing another human on the Moon. It is about restoring our nation's now defunct human space flight program and setting clear and achievable goals that will lead to advancements in science and technology. If we are to be leaders in the exploration of the cosmos, to the Moon and beyond, we must have our own innovative resources to get there. It's going to be next to impossible to maintain our preeminence in the exploration of space if we are having to hitch rides from other countries. Going back to the moon has always been an essential stepping stone for technology development for manned exploration to other parts of the galaxy. This legislation restores and clarifies NASA's role in human space flight and sets the U.S. back on course to lead exploration of the cosmos." "Space is the world's ultimate high ground, returning to the Moon and reinvigorating our human space flight program is a matter of national security. Returning to the moon would allow NASA to continue to develop technologies that have not only enhanced our exploration programs but have been applied across all disciplines of science," said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. "Last year, the National Research Council committee charged with reviewing NASA's strategic direction found that there was no support within NASA or from our international partners for the administration's proposed asteroid mission. However, there is broad support for NASA to lead a return to the Moon. So the U.S. can either lead that effort, or another country will step up and lead that effort in our absence -- which would be very unfortunate," said Rep. Frank Wolf, Chairman of the House Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee. "Moon missions, both human and robotic, offer the United States true international cooperation, while ensuring that we lead from the front. Other nations, private industry, and government experts all regard the Moon as the right place for NASA to direct its resources. The time to reassert the United States as the leader in space is now and the REAL Space Act is the next step," said Rep. Robert Aderholt. "Congress should be committed to NASA and to expanding the frontiers of scientific progress. This bill is the correct path forward to get Americans to the Moon and expand human knowledge," said Rep. Steve Stockman who represents the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. "With a real destination and a realistic timetable, we can achieve our greatest dreams. Without it, we risk seeing our future plans perpetually delayed or cancelled, and only watching as other nations seize the lead in space exploration—and reap the benefits in jobs, inventions, investments, national pride and international respect. I urge my fellow Members of Congress to cosponsor this vital legislation, and I urge space advocates and organizations to join together in support of this bill and in support of the Moon being the stepping stone to Mars." Rep. Pete Olson said, "The REAL Space Act clarifies NASA's mission, something it has been lacking in recent years. Human space exploration is critically important to America's global future. President Kennedy understood that the real benefit of exploration to our nation was not landing men on the moon, but what it would take to get there — the technology, the initiative and the will to do it. He knew, as we know, that space exploration is both a scientific and national security priority. This legislation sets clear and achievable goals that will ensure America maintains global preeminence in both space exploration and scientific discovery." Specifically, the REAL Space Act directs NASA to plan to return to the Moon by 2022 and develop a sustained human presence there as a stepping stone for the future exploration of Mars and other destinations within our solar system. The legislation also emphasizes the importance of maintaining the United States' preeminence in space, and underscores the necessity of preserving America's independent access to space. Returning to the Moon presents many scientific, technological and economic benefits for the United States and the world at large. The economic contribution of NASA's space program is in the tens of billions of dollars. The technologies developed through and transferred from our nation's program have created advancements across all disciplines of science and advances in healthcare in particular have saved and enriched countless lives. Aside from providing a training ground for space faring enabling technologies, humans still have much to learn from exploring the Moon. To date, twelve Americans have explored a section of our Moon smaller than the National Mall. There are many minerals, isotopes, and other natural resources that can be gleaned from the Moon's surface such as ice deposits, which can be used to sustain an outpost or produce rocket propellant for deep space exploration. Setting the Moon as the goal will reengage the public's interest in the space program and inspire a new generation of American students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) where they currently lag behind students in competitor nations.
03.25.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, today decried President Obama's use of the century-old Antiquities Act to create five new national monuments. The Antiquities Act, established in 1906, gives the executive branch the authority to restrict access to federally owned land by circumventing the open, public, process typically taken by Congress to establish new land designations, including national monuments. The five new national monuments include: Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad National Monument in Maryland, the First State National Monument in Delaware and Pennsylvania, the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico, the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington state, and the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio. "I do not oppose the creation of new national monuments. However, I do oppose the use of the Antiquities Act to do so because it promotes a certain type of unilateral governance and sets a dangerous precedent. Congress' lack of capitulation to the President's political whims does not justify unilateral action. If these designations are worthy of implementation, then they will succeed on their own merits. However, they ought to be considered in the open and public Congressional process so all parties, including those who support and oppose the measure, have an equal opportunity to voice their concerns. The Antiquities Act is an abuse of executive privilege and robs the American people of a fair and open process. For instance, the costs associated with these new designations ought to be considered openly and publicly. Our country's financial status is fragile, and so we must be mindful of the new expenditures to which we commit taxpayers. The President may not favor the Congressional process but we have three branches of federal government for a reason. A rush to judgment does a disservice to the process and ultimately the taxpayers, who have entrusted their elected officials to make wise and prudent decisions. I am disappointed that the President opted to use the Antiquities Act and I hope that moving forward, the President will consider allowing the fair legislative process to function as it was intended."
03.22.2013	WASHINGTON–The White House announced today that on Monday, March 25th, President Obama will designate five new national monuments using the Antiquities Act. Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, stated that he was disappointed President Obama would circumvent the necessary, open, and fair public land designation process to designate swaths of both federal and private lands as national monuments. "If these designations are worthy of implementation, then they should stand up on their own merits during the open and fair Congressional process, which prioritizes public input. The use of the Antiquities Act cuts out public participation. There is a right way to designate federal lands, and there is a wrong way. Executive fiat is unquestionably the wrong way and is an abuse of executive privilege. The fact that Congress doesn't capitulate to the President's political whims on his specific timeline is hardly justification for taking unilateral action. I am also curious about the immediate and long-term costs of these new monuments. I'm concerned that the President is committing taxpayers to new expenditures when we ought to be cutting back in places beyond our constitutional obligations," said Congressman Bishop. "I am also concerned that the President will again create a national monument on private property. Though the land owners may be willing sellers, this sets a very dangerous precedent and is a gross expansion of executive power." It has been reported that the President intends to designate the Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad National Monument in Maryland, the First State National Monument in Delaware and Pennsylvania, the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico, the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington state, and the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio. The land targeted for the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers Monument in Ohio as well as the lands identified for the monuments in Maryland and Delaware/Pennsylvania consist of significant private lands.
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a budget for Fiscal Year 2014 as well as a stop-gap measure known as a Continuing Resolution (CR) to provide funding for the remainder of the 2013 fiscal year. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) supported both measures, and noted that the FY 2014 budget prioritizes national defense and calls for greater development of our energy resources on public lands. The U.S. Senate has not passed a budget in four years. The FY2014 budget provides $560.2 billion in funding for fiscal year 2014. In addition to providing funds to carry out constitutional obligations to provide for the common defense of our country, it would also replace the defense sequester starting with the next fiscal year. While defense funding is less than the levels found in previous budget resolutions passed by the House, it still provides more funding than if no budget is passed at all and we rely solely on CRs to fund our national defense. The Continuing Resolution includes a Defense Appropriations bill that provides funding through the remainder of the 2013 fiscal year. It also includes full-year Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bills and it shifts approximately $10 billion within the Department of Defense's (DOD)current budget toward alleviating some aspects of sequestration. This legislation does not go far enough to immediately stop the defense component of sequestration, however it does provides the DOD with greater flexibility to address critical shortfalls as an improved solution to sequestration is sought. "I am proud that the House has again upheld its responsibility to the American people by passing a budget, outlining funding for essential federal operations, including national defense and domestic energy development. I am also pleased that the Senate followed suit and joined in prioritizing national defense needs in this latest CR. While it is by no means a panacea to the pangs of the defense sequester, it is a step in the right direction, giving commanders improved flexibility to address their maintenance, operations, and training needs. It has been disappointing that the Senate has not passed a budget in more than four years. It is my hope that, like the latest CR, we might reach some type of consensus on a new budget—one that hopefully provides the solutions we need to end the defense sequester," said Bishop.
03.20.2013	WASHINGTON— This week, the Ogden Standard Examiner published "Sequestration impacts our mission, people, and bases," an editorial authored by Air Force General Janet C. Wolfenbarger. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today lauded General Janet C. Wolfenbarger's proactive outreach to Utah's Hill Air Force Base community regarding the impending impact from sequestration. Bishop, who opposed the Budget Control Act for its defense sequester provision, was pleased that General Wolfenbarger recognized the House of Representative's recent action to pass a Continuing Budget Resolution, which included funding to help offset the defense aspect of sequestration and ease the impact on personnel. "If the House of Representatives Fiscal Year 2013 budget bill becomes law, its impact on sequestration translates into taking a step toward more regular order and removes uncertainty associated with the budget environment to date for this fiscal year," Gen. Janet C. Wolfenbarger. [link] The House passed version of the Continuing Resolution (CR) includes funding for Military Personnel and Pay, Defense Health and Military Family Programs, and Operation and Maintenance, amongst many other things. Included in the Operations and Maintenance portion of the bill, is $10.4 billion meant to help offset the defense aspect of sequestration by assisting readiness programs, equipment and facility maintenance, as well as base operations. "I'm grateful General Wolfenbarger pointed out the benefits of the House bill. I support the House passed CR, which takes steps to protect vital components of our national defense and would help alleviate the burden of sequestration on personnel. The Senate is considering their version of the CR and it is my hope that they too will prioritize national defense by including the same operations and maintenance funding found in the House version. I hope the Senate does the right thing because the consequence of inaction is far too grave," said Bishop. Sequestration impacts our mission, people, and bases By Gen. Janet C. Wolfenbarger Standard-Examiner March 18, 2013 As commander of Air Force Materiel Command, headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, I lead an organization of some 80,000 military members and civilian employees whose work touches every aspect of the Air Force. Hill Air Force Base is one of the bases in my command. When the warfighter calls for a new capability, we think it, we build it, we break it, we make it better, we deliver it to the fight, and we keep it there as long as it's needed. My people research, develop, buy, test and maintain systems and capabilities the Air Force needs to carry out its mission — from uniforms to fighter aircraft. The on-going sequestration impacts every piece of the AFMC mission and, as a result, the entire Air Force in a multitude of ways. The cuts levied by sequestration will hit AFMC hard on three fronts – our mission, our people, and our bases such as Hill Air Force Base. I do not yet know the precise reductions AFMC will take under sequestration, but, for planning purposes, cuts for the remainder of this fiscal year ending Sept. 30 are about $300 million, or 29 percent of our remaining operating account, and $1.4 billion, or 40 percent of the remaining readiness account we operate on behalf of the Air Force. It is impossible at this point to estimate AFMC cuts beyond Fiscal Year 2013 over the 10-year life of sequestration. But we do know that sequestration impacts will be far-reaching across AFMC. Impacts to Our Mission Recapitalization and modernization of the aging Air Force fleet, primary missions of the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, headquartered at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, will be slowed. Acquisition programs will be delayed or cancelled, some costs will rise, and much-needed capabilities will take longer to get into the hands of our warfighters. At the Air Force Test Center, headquartered at Edwards AFB, Calif., the developmental test mission will be significantly impacted as we reduce operations at AFMC test ranges, stop all flight testing (except for the F-35) and test support toward the end of the fiscal year, and determine the status of upcoming Summer Test Pilot School classes at Edwards AFB. Within the Air Force Sustainment Center, headquartered at Tinker AFB, Okla., we will have to reduce sustainment operations at our three depots by as much as 40 percent for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013. Rough estimates include deferment of 297 aircraft and 197 engines for depot maintenance and major modifications. Depot operations will slow down, aircraft availability and mission capable rates will drop, and some aircraft will simply be grounded. It could take up to five years for depot operations to "catch up" once fully funded. In the Air Force Research Lab, with locations across AFMC, sequestration cuts will force our labs to slow research; new technology transitions will be delayed to the warfighter for both their immediate needs and their longer term requirements to execute critical Air Force missions in the years to come. Impacts to Our People AFMC's workforce is 77 percent civilian (about 60,000 of some 80,000 people). Like no other Major Command in the Air Force, the majority of AFMC will be hit hard by the planned civilian furloughs that will cut workers' pay by 20 percent through September 30. The impacts on my people will be significant. I don't know anyone who can take a 20 percent cut to their income, with minimal notice, and not feel it. Many of my employees live paycheck to paycheck. A 20 percent pay cut is driving the majority of my workforce to face fears of how to pay their household bills. Many have expressed the need to work a part-time job to help cover the impact or withdraw from their retirement accounts to make ends meet. This will be devastating; we are breaking faith with our civilian Airmen. The following are some specific quotes from some of my people: "I will have to cancel my life insurance policy and reduce health care insurance coverage to cover the 20 percent loss of salary." "I will be tapping into my 401K Retirement Plans for hardship loans, which will impact future retirement plans and cause me to incur new debts to pay off old debts. I may need to resort to "pay-day loan" stations to pay bills." This also impacts the communities surrounding our bases. Less money in the pockets of our civilians means less money to spend at the local grocery store, restaurant or movie theater. Less money will go to local taxes that pay for roads, schools and infrastructure. Impacts to Our Bases I am responsible for nine bases in my command, in nine different states across the country. The budget reductions will cut into my ability to maintain these bases where my people live and work, forcing my air base wing commanders to make tough calls on what to repair. Only true emergency repairs will be accomplished. Preventative maintenance on everything from buildings to communication networks will essentially halt. My people will come to work at bases where streets, buildings and housing will see all but emergency upkeep delayed. The potential impacts on defense contractors will also be felt. Thousands of contractors provide goods and services to AFMC and the Air Force. Sequestration will cause some contracts to be modified. Small contractors, who provide everything from office supplies to bomb fuses, will be hit especially hard since they do not have the financial depth of larger defense contractors. If the House of Representatives Fiscal Year 2013 budget bill becomes law, its impact on sequestration translates into taking a step toward more regular order and removes uncertainty associated with the budget environment to date for this fiscal year. It will end the continuing resolution and finally give us a fiscal year 2013 budget. While not all that we requested, we hope the bill, when eventually reconciled with a Senate version, will give the Department of Defense more clarity and more flexibility as it carries out sequestration reductions. Simply put, the impacts of sequestration are severe — to our mission, our people, and our bases and local communities. Gen. Janet C. Wolfenbarger is commander of the Air Force Materiel Command.
03.19.2013	Today the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation held a legislative hearing on H.R. 1126, the "Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Completion Act." The legislation introduced by Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) implements a new design competition and provides a three year extension of the memorial site designation, which is set to expire this year. The current design and competition process has been the subject of repeated scrutiny, including by members of the Eisenhower family, who is opposed to the current design. "Today's hearing elevated concerns that the process taken by the Commission to develop the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial was significantly flawed. I am concerned that the Commission was not adequately prepared to address questions about the accounting of federal funding given to them and that they appeared unwilling to consider new and less-controversial designs. While I support the completion of this project, it's far too important that we get it right rather than just getting it done," said Subcommittee Chairman Bishop. "President Eisenhower's service to our country deserves to be honored with an appropriate and fitting Memorial that more adequately reflects his legacy. In light of this, I will continue to pursue the passage of this legislation." "It is clear what we have to do is steer this memorial back in the right direction. Ask the question as Americans—and especially for us older Americans—does this fairly respect the unique contribution of this great general, this great president, this great man, and the time that he lived in, and the time that he made this contribution?" said Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49). The Subcommittee heard testimony from President Eisenhower's granddaughter, Susan Eisenhower, who represented the family's significant concerns with the design process and the durability and cost of the design itself. Other historical and architectural expert witnesses also expressed concern with various aspects of the current design and the desire to complete an appropriate memorial to President Eisenhower. Susan Eisenhower was quick to point out "Congressman Bishops' legislation is designed to assure a memorial to Dwight Eisenhower, not to thwart it." The president's granddaughter repeated that her "family, as well as countless members of the public and the media, thinks the design is flawed in concept and overreaching in scale." Susan Eisenhower noted her family has raised concerns for more than ten years and that "the president's only surviving son, our father, John S. D. Eisenhower, has been clear about his desire to see a memorial, but one which reflects his father's values and enjoys national consensus." Arthur Cotton Moore, a national award-winning and internationally recognized Architect, Preservationist and Planner told the subcommittee his primary purpose in testifying was to "defend and protect the [Pierre] L'Enfant Plan," the original architect, civil engineer and city planner of Washington D.C., whom George Washington worked closely with, "thereby preserving the openness of Maryland Avenue and its 160 foot wide vista of the Capitol," which the current Eisenhower Memorial design obstructs. Cotton Moore defended modernity's preservation of L'Enfant's original vision of Washington D.C., "for the last 213 years of development in this section of the Southwest, none of the hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of public and private buildings, have been allowed to encroach into the 160 foot right-of-way of Maryland Avenue. The Eisenhower Memorial would be the first project to do that." Justin Shubow, President of the National Civic Art Society, shared his significant concerns regarding the limited process of the design competition, "Not only was the competition limited to licensed architects with substantial portfolios, it was a closed competition that solicited only 44 entries." Shubow said that because the design and process in selecting the design were so flawed, "Congress now has no choice but to go back to the drawing board and pass a bill to ensure that President Eisenhower gets the Memorial he deserves. Nothing could be more democratic than an open competition that provides opportunity for comment from both Congress and the public."
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON— This week further information has been leaked about President Obama and his Council on Environmental Quality's plans to instruct each federal agency to consider "global climate change" before approving major federal projects. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, which oversees the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), stated his opposition to the Administration's proposal to consider global climate change as part of the NEPA process. "I am opposed to this onerous and redundant expansion of existing NEPA requirements," said Bishop. "Cap and Trade was an abysmal failure and received overwhelming opposition across the country. Despite this fact, the President decided that he knows better than the American people and will implement these failed policies anyway. Doing this by executive fiat is the wrong approach. This type of governance has proved throughout history to be a failure." The National Environmental Policy Act, established in 1970, is a process law that serves as the primary mechanism by which environmental impacts are considered in the federal decision-making process. Before any federal project may be undertaken, such as the building of new infrastructure or development of natural resources, a thorough NEPA analysis must be conducted to account for environmental impacts. "We all want to ensure that we are responsible stewards of the gifts and resources with which our country is blessed. However, this latest mandate is simply the wrong tack. It will have devastating consequences on our country and will handicap manufacturing, resource development, national defense, construction, and transportation industries—just to name a few," Bishop added. Following the establishment of NEPA in 1970, Congress took even further steps to develop policies that would actually regulate several aspects of our nation's environmental health. One of these policies is the Clean Air Act- established in 1970 and amended in 1977 and 1990, which already manages our nation's air resources and emissions. "When you talk to industries essential to our nation's economy, they'll tell you that unnecessary delays and costly litigation stemming from NEPA are already among their greatest burdens. This new idea of the President's is only going to make the review process longer and will likely impose even more litigation on our nation's job creators," Bishop concluded. The following news story was published by Bloomberg.com on March 14, 2014 and provides insight on President Obama's plans to inform federal agencies that they must consider global climate change in their consideration of major federal projects. Obama Will Use Nixon-Era Law to Fight Climate Change By Mark Drajem, Bloomberg March 14, 2013 President Barack Obama is preparing to tell all federal agencies for the first time that they have to consider the impact on global warming before approving major projects, from pipelines to highways. The result could be significant delays for natural gas- export facilities, ports for coal sales to Asia, and even new forest roads, industry lobbyists warn. "It's got us very freaked out," said Ross Eisenberg, vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers, a Washington-based group that represents 11,000 companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) and Southern Co. (SO) The standards, which constitute guidance for agencies and not new regulations, are set to be issued in the coming weeks, according to lawyers briefed by administration officials. In taking the step, Obama would be fulfilling a vow to act alone in the face of a Republican-run House of Representatives unwilling to pass measures limiting greenhouse gases. He'd expand a Nixon-era law that was intended to force agencies to assess the effect of projects on air, water and soil pollution. "If Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will," Obama said last month during his State of the Union address. He pledged executive actions "to reduce pollution, prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change, and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy." The president is scheduled to deliver a speech on energy today outside Chicago. Long Delays While some U.S. agencies already take climate change into account when assessing projects, the new guidelines would apply across-the-board to all federal reviews. Industry lobbyists say they worry that projects could be tied up in lawsuits or administrative delays. For example, Ambre Energy Ltd. is seeking a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers to build a coal-export facility at the Port of Morrow in Oregon. Under existing rules, officials weighing approval would consider whether ships in the port would foul the water or generate air pollution locally. The Environmental Protection Agency and activist groups say that review should be broadened to account for the greenhouse gases emitted when exported coal is burned in power plants in Asia. Similar analyses could be made for the oil sands that would be transported in TransCanada Corp. (TRP)'s Keystone XL pipeline, and leases to drill for oil, gas and coal on federal lands, such as those for Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) and Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) Targeting Keystone If the new White House guidance is structured correctly, it will require just those kinds of lifecycle reviews, said Bill Snape, senior counsel at the Center for Biological Diversity in Washington. The environmental group has sued to press for this approach, and Snape says lawsuits along this line are certain if the administration approves the Keystone pipeline, which would transport oil from Canada's tar sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast. "The real danger is the delays," said Eisenberg of the manufacturers' group. "I don't think the answer is ever going to be ‘no,' but it can confound things." Lawyers and lobbyists are now waiting for the White House's Council on Environmental Quality to issue the long bottled-up standards for how agencies should address climate change under the National Environmental Policy Act, signed into law by President Richard Nixon in 1970. NEPA requires federal agencies to consider and publish the environmental impact of their actions before making decisions. Those reviews don't mandate a specific course of action. They do provide a chance for citizens and environmentalists to weigh in before regulators decide on an action -- and to challenge those reviews in court if it's cleared. ‘Major Shakeup' "Each agency currently differs in how their NEPA reviews consider the climate change impacts of projects, as well as how climate change impacts such as extreme weather will affect projects," Taryn Tuss, a Council on Environmental Quality spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. "CEQ is working to incorporate the public input we received on the draft guidance, and will release updated guidance when it is completed." The new standards will be "a major shakeup in how agencies conduct NEPA" reviews, said Brendan Cummings, senior counsel for the Center for Biological Diversity in San Francisco. The White House is looking at requiring consideration of both the increase in greenhouse gases and a project's vulnerability to flooding, drought or other extreme weather that might result from global warming, according to an initial proposal it issued in 2010. Those full reports would be required for projects with 25,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions or more per year, the equivalent of burning about 100 rail cars of coal. Federal Lands The initial draft exempted federal land and resource decisions from the guidance, although CEQ said it was assessing how to handle those cases. Federal lands could be included in the final standards. The White House guidance itself won't force any projects to be stopped outright. Instead, it's likely to prompt lawsuits against federal projects on these grounds, and increase the probability that courts will step in and order extensive reviews as part of the "adequate analysis" required in the law, said George Mannina, an attorney at Nossaman LLP in Washington. "The question is: Where does this analysis take us?" he said. "Adequate analysis may be much broader than the agency and applicant might consider." While the Obama administration's guidance could be easily rescinded by the next administration, the court rulings that stem from these cases will live on as precedents, Mannina said. ‘Inaccurate Modeling' Lobbying groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, American Petroleum Institute and the National Mining Association weighed in with the White House against including climate in NEPA, a law initially aimed at chemical leaks or air pollution. "Not only will this result in additional delay of the NEPA process, but will result in speculative and inaccurate modeling that will have direct impacts on approval of specific projects," the National Mining Association in Washington wrote in comments to the White House in 2010. The group represents Arch Coal (ACI) and Peabody, both based in St. Louis. Leases that the Department of Interior issued for those companies to mine for coal in Wyoming are facing lawsuits from environmental groups, arguing that the agency didn't adequately tally up the effect on global warming from burning that coal. Given Obama's pledge to address global warming, "this is a massive contradiction," said Jeremy Nichols, director of climate at WildEarth Guardians in Denver, which filed lawsuits against the leases. Protecting Environment Arch Coal referred questions to the mining group. Beth Sutton, a Peabody spokeswoman, said in an e-mail, "We believe the current regulatory approach to surface mine permits is appropriate and protects the environment." Since CEQ first announced its proposal, more than three dozen federal approvals were challenged on climate grounds, including a highway project in North Carolina, a methane-venting plan for a coal mine in Colorado, and a research facility in California, according to a chart compiled by the Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University. The next target is TransCanada (TRP)'s application to build the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) Keystone pipeline. The Sierra Club and 350.org drew 35,000 people to Washington last month to urge Obama to reject the pipeline. Meanwhile, the NEPA review by the State Department included an initial analysis of carbon released when the tar sands are refined into gasoline and used in vehicles. ‘Ground Zero' It stopped short, however, of saying the project would result in an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. With or without the pipeline, the oil sands will be mined and used as fuel, the report said. That finding is likely to be disputed in court if the Obama administration clears the project. "Keystone is ground zero," said Snape, of the Center for Biological Diversity. "Clearly this will come into play, and it will be litigated." Any actions by the administration now on global warming would pick up on a mixed record over the past four years. While Obama failed to get Congress to pass cap-and-trade legislation, the EPA reversed course from the previous administration and ruled that carbon-dioxide emissions endanger public health, opening the way for the agency to regulate it. Using that finding, the agency raised mileage standards for automobiles and proposed rules for new power plants that would essentially outlaw the construction of new coal-fired power plants that don't have expensive carbon-capture technology. Environmentalists such as the Natural Resources Defense Council say the most important action next will be the EPA's rules for existing power plants, the single biggest source of carbon-dioxide emissions. The NEPA standards are separate from those rules, and will affect how the federal government itself is furthering global warming. "Agencies do a pretty poor job of looking at climate change impacts," Rebecca Judd, a legislative counsel at the environmental legal group Earthjustice in Washington. "A thorough guidance would help alleviate that." To contact the reporter on this story: Mark Drajem in Washington at mdrajem@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jon Morgan at jmorgan97@bloomberg.net
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON– After the-sky-is-falling proclamations from the Obama Administration that sequestration would harm National Parks, delay oil and gas permits, and cost jobs in the Department of the Interior, Senate Democrats this week introduced a FY13 spending bill that would impose further cuts to the Parks, severely curtail funds to fight wildfires, and reduce resource development dollars used for permitting. In both the FY13 Continuing Resolution (CR) and in the FY14 budget proposal, Senate Democrats prioritized new land acquisition over protecting and efficiently operating our current federal estate. Congressional Western Caucus Co-Chairman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Chairman Emeritus, Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statements in response: "The Senate CR is an insult to the West. After full-throated complaints about Park Service cuts in the sequester, and front page write-ups in the Washington Post about delayed openings at Yellowstone, Senate Democrats now propose to cut Park Service funding by another $22 million dollars. As we approach fire season, they also force the government to borrow money to fight wildfires. They make these cuts not because they've seen the light on dealing with our debt, but to protect funding for acquiring new lands for the federal government without any requirement to dispose of land first. In what world do Senate Democrats live where growing the federal estate is more important than protecting the West from fires, or effectively managing the land we already have?" - Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis "This is a clear case of misplaced priorities. Long before sequestration there was an existing maintenance backlog on our federal lands and now land managers are reporting that sequestration is only further compounding this issue. It makes zero sense that we provide tax dollars for new land acquisitions, especially given the financial crisis before us. Families who are struggling and can barely afford to pay their bills don't go buy new homes because to do so would be fiscally irresponsible. Yet, that is the exact course of action the Senate is proposing in their latest version of the CR. We're facing furloughs, layoffs, and a rapid deterioration of our national defense capabilities, so I don't see how anyone can presently justify adding to the 660 million acres of land already owned by the federal government. I disagree with the Senate's proposal to give taxpayer dollars to the Land and Water Conservation Fund and will join with many colleagues in opposing it here in the House." - Congressman Rob Bishop
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON– Citing concerns over the controversial design and escalating funding needs of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial, Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today introduced the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Completion Act. This bill seeks to build greater consensus amongst key stakeholders, including the Eisenhower family. Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of President Eisenhower, delivered testimony before the subcommittee expressing the Eisenhower family's concerns for the current design. "The Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial will honor one of the greatest leaders in our nation's history and serve as a lasting tribute to his legacy. It is important that we get this project right and presently, there are far too many outstanding concerns including the controversial design and rising costs," said Bishop. In 1999, Congress established the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission to facilitate the design and development of the official Memorial in Washington, D.C. Since its establishment in 1999, Congress has appropriated more than $60 million to the Commission. Until a specific accounting and current balance of those funds are reviewed, Bishop has requested that future funding be placed on hold. "We need to reevaluate the current status of the project and find the best way forward toward building greater consensus. This legislation will help address funding concerns and will offer alternative designs for consideration. I am hopeful that these changes will help advance the project toward an outcome upon which all parties can agree," Bishop added. Bishop's legislation would implement a new design competition and eliminate nearly $100 million in future funding requested by the Commission. The legislation would also provide a three-year extension of the site designation approved by Congress in 2006, which included a seven-year sunset on the site.
03.07.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Chris Stewart (UT-02) have introduced legislation in the Senate and House, respectively, that would transfer 100 acres of land currently owned by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to the city of Fruit Heights in Davis County. The land will be used as a cemetery for the city. Fruit Heights currently has an agreement with neighboring Kaysville for burials, however due to the significant population growth the region has seen, Fruit Heights has been notified that its residents will soon no longer be able to be interred in the Kaysville cemetery. "This legislation fulfills a basic need for the residents and City of Fruit Heights, as well as the neighboring communities," Hatch said. "I'm going to work with Rob and Chris and ensure this common sense and necessary legislation gets signed into law as soon as possible." "Over 65% of the State of Utah consists of federal land, and therefore there is a finite amount of state and private land available to communities on which they can expand and grow," said Bishop. "This poses unique challenges for communities like Fruit Heights, which currently has no local cemetery and is no longer able to rely on surrounding communities. With no other place to go, this small plot of forest service land is really the only option as they look to address their growing needs." "We are happy to participate in this process and look forward to working with the Forest Service as they do the right thing, and help meet the needs of Fruit Heights city," Stewart added. "We are very pleased with the introduction of this land acquisition legislation that will help Fruit Heights acquire much needed land for a city cemetery and preserve open space on the eastern boundary of our community," said Todd Stevenson, mayor of the City of Fruit Heights. "We recognize that this is just the first step in the process to complete this acquisition for our city, and we look forward to working the members of congress to bring this to fruition. We appreciate the hard work by Senator Hatch and Representatives Bishop and Stewart in supporting this important effort for Fruit Heights City." Hatch introduced similar legislation last Congress but it did not receive a vote. # # #
03.07.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Federal Land Asset Inventory Reform (FLAIR) Act [H.R. 916]. The bill requires the Department of Interior (DOI) to conduct an inventory of its federal real property holdings and integrate this data into the Federal Real Property Profile where the inventories will be tracked and managed. A study conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that managing federal real property is an area of the federal government that is most susceptible to waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer money. Present inventories of more than 100 different property systems are inaccurate, out of date, and obsolete. The National Academies of Science have recognized the lack of accurate data as a problem existing for more than 30 years. A new inventory and updated management database would identify and eliminate redundancy and duplication that costs millions of taxpayer dollars each year. "In an era where technological advancements are made on an almost daily basis, it makes no sense that we don't have an accurate and up-to-date database of our federal lands and infrastructure. Outdated inventories and inaccurate data waste time and taxpayer dollars. If I can view the streets of a tiny town in Germany on Google maps as though I were standing there in person, I should, at the very least, be able to find a comprehensive, accurate, online listing of our country's public land assets. I think the American people would be surprised by the fact that this doesn't already exist," said Congressman Bishop. "The FLAIR Act is an effective government reform bill that will utilize Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology to help capture information about federal property. The bill also improves data management to help eliminate fraud, waste and redundancies, something I've been focused on since my days doing research for Senator William Proxmire's ‘Golden Fleece' awards pointing out wasteful government spending," said Congressman Kind. The federal government is the largest landowner in the United States, managing an estimated total of 660 million acres or one-third of the total land area. Unfortunately, federal land managers often do not have precise and updated data detailing exactly what lands and infrastructure the federal government owns, because there is not one current and accurate database available.-30-
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON– The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation that extends the current post-sequester level of funding for federal government operations through the remainder of the fiscal year, ending September 30, 2013. The legislation also importantly appropriates funding for Veterans programs, critical military construction projects, and includes a provision to give the Department of Defense improved flexibility in redirecting funds from unnecessary programs of 2012 to its current operational needs in 2013. The military construction component of H.R. 933 includes funding for three projects at Hill Air Force that will support the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. "The Department of Defense has been the only place the President has been willing to make cuts. Tacking on cuts from sequestration will create instability throughout many essential defense operations demanding greater flexibility in the way the DOD utilizes existing funds. Giving our nation's top military leaders improved ability to direct funds where they are most needed will be important to maintaining essential programs. We have a constitutional obligation to provide for the national defense of our country and yet it's the one area hurt most by sequestration," said Bishop. "While changes are likely to occur throughout our national defense operations, we cannot ignore the fact that we must replace and update our aging weapons systems and infrastructure. I am pleased that preparations are underway for the impending arrival of the F-35 at Hill Air Force Base. The Joint Strike Fighter will be helpful in our efforts to ensure the long-term viability of the base."
03.04.2013	WASHINGTON– Today, the White House announced that President Obama would name Gina McCarthy as the incoming Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator and Ernest Moniz as the new Secretary of the Department of Energy (DOE). Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee, issued the following statements in reaction to the appointments: Ernest Moniz: "Mr. Moniz has testified before Congress that he is a proponent of nuclear energy and natural gas, which are essential to our nation's ability to provide clean, affordable, energy. Should he be approved as Secretary, I hope his support for all forms of energy remain at the forefront of his agenda as he works to help the U.S. gain greater energy security. Given the ongoing instability of some of the countries from which we currently import energy resources, I hope that Mr. Moniz will recognize the inherent need to utilize the abundant resources located right here in the United States." Gina McCarthy: "Under Lisa Jackson's term as Administrator, the EPA was used as a vehicle to unilaterally enact new regulations and mandates that were meant to stifle energy development and growth. She exhibited little regard for including the open congressional process in the development of far-reaching new environmental policies. It is my hope that Gina McCarthy will be open to working with Congress as well as states, local communities, and stakeholders. I am hopeful she will recognize that collaboration is the key to the development of successful and responsible environmental policies."
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON– U.S. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee, and U.S. Senator David Vitter (R-LA), the top Republican on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today introduced the Energy Production and Project Delivery Act of 2013. This legislation would immediately help address the nation's energy, job, and financial crisis by unleashing domestic energy resources, creating thousands of well-paying jobs, and generating significant federal revenues from energy production. "The U.S. is blessed with diverse and abundant natural energy resources that, if utilized more responsibly, could help our country prosper and grow. With the President's position that only new revenues will alter the course of sequestration, this bill provides an alternative to his proposal for new taxes on hard-working Americans. Here we present new opportunities to grow revenues in a way that will help address the critical issues of job creation and energy costs," said U.S. Rep. Rob Bishop. "There's no disputing the fact that our nation's domestic energy production on federal lands has been stymied by this administration and is trending in the exact opposite direction of the rapid growth we're seeing on private and state lands. This legislation would help to reverse that trend by increasing access to our domestic resources, and would do so despite the threat from the White House to decrease oil and gas leasing and permitting on federal lands if sequestration goes through," said U.S. Sen. David Vitter. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, The Western Business Roundtable, Americans for Limited Government, Americans for Tax Reform, and Americans for Prosperity have issued letters of support for this legislation. The bill's current cosponsors include: John Barrasso(R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Daniel Coats (R-Ind.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Michael Enzi (R-Wyo.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), James Risch (R-Idaho), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Patrick Toomey (R-Penn.), David Vitter (R-La.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) Energy Production and Project Delivery Act of 2013 Energy Production · Requiring the Secretary of Interior to open closed areas of the OCS for mineral leasing could create 1.2 million long-term and well-paying jobs.[1] · Over the next 30 years, increased OCS leasing could generate approximately $8.2 trillion in GDP, or approximately $273 billion per year.[2] Potential to provide more than $2.2 trillion in incremental tax receipts.[3] · Opens production along all our coasts and expedites a new 5-year lease plan that provides more than double the access of the current 5-year plan. · Establishes an equal revenue-sharing formula by eliminating funding for land acquisition and diverting that money back to the offshore producing states. · Opens ANWR to oil and gas production which could create approximately 730,000 jobs.[4] · Leasing ANWR could generate over $114 billion in royalty revenue plus another $95 billion in corporate income tax revenue.[5] Regulatory Streamlining and Project Delivery · Expedites judicial review of energy projects on federal lands so that they are not caught up in extended legal challenges. According to the CBO, the number one action that could have been taken to accelerate spending authorized in the stimulus package was streamlining the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental and judicial review processes.[6] · The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has identified more than 300 projects around the United States that are tied-up in environmental lawsuits. All 300 could provide a significant number of jobs to workers and families in need.[7] · Preserves Bureau of Land Management Resource Management Planning integrity through the elimination on duplicative "Master Leasing Plans". · Prevents EPA from regulating CO2 under the Clean Air Act (CAA) until China, India and Russia are similarly willing to hamstring their economies. EPA regulation of CO2 under the CAA could result in the average loss of over 500,000 jobs annually and over $7 trillion in GDP over the next 20 years.[8] · Requires EPA to do full economic analysis of the employment effects of EPA regulation under the Clean Air Act. · The ESA was not intended to be used as a tool for climate change regulatory actions to further put American workers out of work, or to crush private landowners. This would prevent the consideration of greenhouse gases in ESA listings. · Would prohibit another round of cutting off water to California farmers by the Department of Interior via action under the Endangered Species Act. · Expedites the permitting of the Keystone XL Pipeline (20,000 jobs). · Provides Drakes Bay Oyster Company an additional 10 years to operate the farm in Point Reyes National Seashore, CA (30 jobs). [1] American Energy Alliance Study, The Economic Contribution of Increased Offshore Oil Exploration and Production to Regional and National Economics, Joseph R. Mason, February, 2009. [2] Id. [3] Id. [4] Arctic Power; http://www.anwr.org/features/pdfs/employment-facts.pdf [5] CRS Memorandum, Possible Federal Revenue Estimates From Oil and Gas Production In Areas Currently Off-Limits, September 5, 2008. [6] Congressional Budget Office, Letter to Senator Kent Conrad, January 28, 2009. [7] http://pnp.uschamber.com/ [8] Heritage Foundation, CO2-Emission Cuts: The Economic Costs of The EPA's ANPR Regulations, David W. Kreutzer, Ph.D., and Karen A. Campbell, Ph.D., October 29, 2008
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON-- Senator David Vitter, top Republican on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee (R-LA) and Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environment Regulation subcommittee (R-UT) will hold a media availability tomorrow, Wednesday February 27th, to jointly introduce the Energy Production and Project Delivery Act of 2013. This legislation would immediately help address the nation's energy, job, and financial crisis by unleashing domestic energy resources, creating thousands of well-paying jobs, and increasing federal revenues from energy production. The Members of Congress will also address the White House threat to decrease oil and gas leasing and permitting on federal lands if sequestration is enacted. For example under the Clinton Administration, nearly twice as many leases were sold on federal lands and waters while operating the Department of Interior with a far lower budget than they have today. WHO: Senator David Vitter and Congressman Rob Bishop (NOTE: Other Senators and Representatives (TBA) will likely be joining Vitter and Bishop) WHAT: Press conference to introduce Energy Production and Project Delivery Act of 2013 WHERE: U.S. Senate Radio-TV Gallery, S-325, U.S. Capitol DATE: Wednesday, February 27, 2013 TIME: 11:30 a.m. EST
02.20.2013	WASHINGTON– U.S. Department of Defense Secretary Leon Panetta today sent a letter to Congress outlining the likely impact that President Obama's sequester will have on our national defense capabilities as well as federal civilian workforce. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), a member of the House Armed Services Committee whose district includes Hill Air Force Base, issued the following statement in response: "I share Secretary Panetta's concerns over the impact that sequestration will have on national security and our civilian workforce. The House has taken action, not once, but twice. We passed two bills to avoid sequestration but the Senate refused to consider them. This isn't a blame game, it's the truth. The Senate and President Obama have done nothing to stop sequestration despite the fact that there is broad bipartisan support to do so. Top military leaders and the Secretary of Defense have informed us in no uncertain terms that sequestration will have dire consequences. As commander-in-chief, the President is responsible for ensuring the health and viability of our national defense capabilities—yet he appears unengaged. With only a few days left until sequestration, the President is reported to have been playing golf in Florida. He has certainly proven capable of leisure, now it's time to prove that he's capable of leadership." The letter, issued today to Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) and the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) by Secretary Panetta, cautioned that a failure to avoid automatic spending cuts known as "sequestration" would likely result in furloughs to civilian personnel. The letter states that, "If sequestration is not avoided, the magnitude of the potential reductions will damage force readiness, slow major acquisition programs, and necessitate civilian furlough action that will negatively affect our Federal civilian workforce. Overall, sequestration will put us on a path toward a hollow force and inflict serious damage on our national security." In an effort to prevent sequestration, the House passed the following two bills: § Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012 (HR 5652), which would have eliminated the FY 2013 sequester and reduced the deficit § Spending Reduction Act of 2012 (HR 6684), which would have eliminated the FY 2013 sequester and reduced the deficit by $237 billion To view Secretary Panetta's letter to Congress, click here.
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today opposed legislation to eliminate the "2013 statutory pay adjustment for federal employees," commonly referred to as the "Federal Pay-Freeze Act." [H.R. 273] Specifically, H.R. 273 would extend the federal worker pay freeze through the remainder of 2013. "Let me be very clear. I do not oppose a pay freeze for Members of Congress. That is not why I oppose this bill. I've had my pay frozen for many years and have supported the efforts to do so. In fact, members of Congress already have their pay frozen – whether or not this bill becomes law," said Bishop. "This bill freezes, for a third year, the salaries of federal workers including those at Hill Air Force Base who repair the equipment needed to maintain the safety of our war fighters and other essential defense systems. They make on average twenty thousand dollars less than the average Washington bureaucrat. They are also subject to a furlough, which could also cut up to twenty percent of their wages. This is unfair to them." This week, during the House Rules Committee hearing on the bill, Bishop shared concerns over the detrimental impact the new policy will have on some of our nation's most uniquely skilled workers. Click here to view Bishop's Remarks Bishop's concerns with the legislation include the following: · The bill unfairly singles out federal employees, including those at Hill Air Force Base, for a continued pay freeze when their pay has already been frozen for two years. · Employees at Hill Air Force Base, who are among the most highly and uniquely skilled technicians and workers in the country, have not had any cost of living adjustment for the past two years and extending it to a third year would make it increasingly difficult for families to adjust to rising costs of commodities and products associated with every-day life. · While the national debt problem is unprecedented and must be resolved, the total elimination of the federal workforce, even if practicable, would not be a fraction of what it will take to begin to pay down the debt. The federal worker pay freeze for the past two years has already cost federal workers deserved and needed salary increases and unfairly singles them out as a group for continued financial sacrifice, impacting families and morale of the critical defense civilian workforce. Further, mandatory spending adjustments and redundant programs should be our first consideration, as recommended by the Simpson-Bowles Presidential Commission. · The "sledgehammer" approach taken by H.R. 273 of hitting all federal workers with continued freezes unfairly penalizes the lower paid federal workers, which is detrimental to morale and makes it increasingly difficult to attract and retain highly-trained and technically skilled workers who manage some of our most essential national defense programs. · There are smarter, more responsible ways to address excesses in the federal workforce, and this bill was the wrong approach.
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in response to President Obama's 2013 State of the Union Address: "While I found the speech to be disappointing, I don't disagree with some of the concepts and proposals President Obama put forth. I liked the emphasis on families and that the President addressed the need to improve healthcare for our nation's veterans. I was also impressed that the President touched on the fact that the federal government doesn't have to solve every problem. However, in large part, the President was just playing to the crowd, telling them what they wanted to hear, and missed out on the opportunity to address some of the most immediate crises facing our country. "I was particularly disappointed that the President's approach to addressing the looming financial crisis and sequester was to generate more revenue. In fact he only brought up the word ‘sequester' once, which is surprising given the scale of impact it will have on our country. Instead of introducing a feasible plan to halt sequestration, especially the cuts to national defense, the President is using this financial crisis to raise taxes on hard-working Americans and businesses in order to generate new revenue. The harsh arbitrary cuts from sequestration would jeopardize military readiness and fails to account for the cuts already occurring at the Defense Department, which are the main reasons why I opposed the idea of a sequester from its very inception and voted against the bill creating it. In the last election, President Obama told us that sequestration ‘will not happen,' and he should be held accountable to that statement. After all, the idea of a sequester was created by the President and his advisers. "I think most Americans agree that education can be improved in this country. The way to do that is by increasing local autonomy and parental involvement, not federal intrusion and meddling. Having served as an educator for the better part of three decades, I have concerns with the concept of the federal government controlling education from birth to college. "Also of concern is the President's agenda for energy. Just in the last month, multiple lease sales on federal lands in Colorado have been pulled because of bureaucratic red-tape. The reality is that any progress made on this front was done despite his administration's attempt to curb production and slow walk new opportunities for development of our public lands and resources. It's ironic that he touts natural gas production at the same time that his administration is working on new policies to limit methods of extraction and production."
02.07.2013	WASHINGTON – House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), along with Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06), Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25), and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-09), today sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Gene L. Dodaro requesting a comprehensive economic and administrative evaluation of federal agencies' required compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) over the last five fiscal years. The letter also asks the GAO to examine "costs associated with NEPA related litigation and delays in regulatory approvals." Click here to read the full letter. "Since its establishment in 1970, the National Environmental Policy Act has evolved into one of the most expansive regulatory laws in the country. The full extent of its breadth and reach, spanning across every federal agency and every federal action, has yet to be comprehensively examined. Nor have the costs associated with compliance been fully measured. This report will help us better understand the current impact of NEPA on both pending and existing projects, the management and protection of our natural resources and lands, cost of compliance and litigation, and whether or not it has impeded job creation and economic growth. I look forward to the findings of the research and hope that the analyses will give us a clearer understanding of the law and its impact over the last forty years and into the future," said Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop. "The National Environmental Policy Act is one of the broadest, most sweeping regulatory laws in existence and the federal government should have a better understanding of how much their own compliance costs the American taxpayer and the impact on small businesses, family farms, rural counties and schools, energy-producing activities and economic growth. After forty years, mounds of red-tape and exposure to endless litigation and regulatory delay have corroded the original intent of the law. The result is a costly and complex regulatory process that does more to impede job creation and economic growth than protect the environment," said Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04). "Understanding the full extent of NEPA's costly regulatory process will better help the Committee with efforts to make improvements and modernizations to the law, which will ensure better protection of our environment and support economic growth."
02.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), along with four other members of the Utah delegation, sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Interior Secretary, Ken Salazar, urging the Department to dispose of 5,423 acres of federal land in Utah that has been identified as suitable for disposal by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). It has been reported that BLM is actively identifying and purchasing private property with the goal of preventing commercial activities within Garfield County. Currently, Garfield County has just three percent of its land in private ownership, limiting economic growth. Returning this land to Garfield County would allow for increased commercial activities and help grow the economy in Utah. "Let us be clear, we are not suggesting that this paltry amount of disposals makes up for BLM's obvious abuse, because we believe this number is far too small and more lands should be made available, but we urge the Department to use whatever means necessary to process these disposals in an expedited manner, using categorical exclusions and other fast-tracking authorities to dispose of this diminutive percentage of federal property," members of the delegation wrote. The Members of Congress that signed this letter along with Congressman Stewart include, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT). The text of the letter sent is below: February 7, 2013 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary Department of the Interior 1849 C St NW Washington, D.C. 20240 Secretary Salazar: We are deeply troubled by recent Bureau of Land Management (BLM) decisions to suppress economic activity within the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (Monument). It has been reported that BLM is actively identifying and purchasing private property with the express goal of preventing commercial activities within Garfield County[1]. In light of this disheartening situation, we request your help in expediting the disposal of federal lands within Garfield County. Approximately 5,423 acres of federal land have been identified by BLM as suitable for disposal, or 0.002% of Garfield County's landmass. Let us be clear, we are not suggesting that this paltry amount of disposals makes up for BLM's obvious abuse, because we believe this number is far too small and more lands should be made available, but we urge the Department to use whatever means necessary to process these disposals in an expedited manner, using categorical exclusions and other fast-tracking authorities to dispose of this diminutive percentage of federal property. With just 3% of land within Garfield County in private ownership, it is imperative that these disposals happen in a timely manner. Concurrently, we have major concerns with BLM's land acquisition decision and expect a thorough explanation. Commercial activities and economic development opportunities in Garfield County are already limited. When President Clinton unilaterally designated the Monument in 1996, a suite of economic development options were taken away from county leaders and residents. Resource development, ranching, and motorized recreation are some of the activities that instantly became discouraged or stopped altogether. National environmental groups and out-of-state politicians lauded President Clinton's proclamation then and continue to offer support for the Monument now. More recently, you touted the economic benefits that outdoor recreation has on local economies: "Protected public spaces can serve as magnets for visitors. Though the [National Landscape Conservation System] accounts for only 10 percent of the lands BLM manages, its lands are now welcoming more than 9 million visitors a year. Those 9 million visitors spend money at local motels, grocery stores, and gas stations. They rent bikes and use guide services (emphasis added)[2]." When the BLM spends nearly half a million taxpayer dollars to suppress commercial activity, they are suppressing the very activities you touted in your speech. How can "protected public spaces" grow economies or benefit local communities if commercial activity is discouraged or suppressed? If commercial activity is prohibited within the Monument, where are visitors supposed to sleep at night, eat during the day, fill up their tanks, or rent recreation equipment? We urge the Department to do the right thing and quickly dispose of the federal acreage identified by BLM as suitable for disposal. Without this action the families of these affected communities continue to suffer economic harm at the hands of the federal government. Sincerely, Rep. Chris Stewart Rep. Rob Bishop Rep. Jason Chaffetz Sen. Orrin Hatch Sen. Mike Lee For the PDF version of the letter, click here. [1] Maffly, Brian (January 30, 2013) Private land in Grand Staircase trickling to BLM. Retrieved January 31, 2013 from http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/news/55635228-78/monument-blm-private-grand.html.csp [2] Kersgaard, Scot (November 18, 2010) Salazar: Economic growth more often tied to recreation than to extraction. Retrieved January 31, 2013 from http://coloradoindependent.com/67676/salazar-economic-growth-more-often-tied-to-recreation-than-to-extraction
02.07.2013	"I fully support a delay or total elimination of the defense sequester and would back the President in making this happen, but I believe we can and should get there without raising taxes. I oppose the new tax revenue component of the President's plan, especially given that the President has already succeeded in obtaining tax increases this year." -- Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01)
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in reaction to reports that President Obama will nominate Recreational Equipment Inc. "REI" CEO Sally Jewell as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior, replacing departing Secretary Ken Salazar "I have some reservations about President Obama's selection of Sally Jewell. While I certainly respect her business expertise, the President had other options who possessed extensive experience with public policy in the west and the impacts of so much federally-owned land. Additionally, her company has intimately supported several special interest groups and subsequently helped to advance their radical political agendas. The jurisdiction of the Department of Interior is extremely broad and extends across many platforms, requiring the Secretary to take a balanced approach to both conservation and the responsible use of our lands and resources. Unfortunately, Utah's lands and resources have been a consistent target of this Administration and it is my hope that the next DOI Secretary takes a less heavy-handed approach when it comes to picking winners and losers. Since the House has no formal role in the nomination process, I will work with Senators Hatch and Lee to ensure that Sally Jewell's past record is fully vetted and made clear so that we have a better understanding of what her priorities and focus will be at the Department of Interior." Fun Fact: Secretary Salazar's unveiling of the controversial and widely opposed Wild Lands proposal occurred outside REI's flagship store in Denver, CO. [photo
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON–House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to remarks delivered today by former Department of Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt encouraging the President to impose stricter federal lands policies that aim to limit multiple use and energy production: "I would probably be willing to accept the ‘one for one' concept if we started at the position of parity. At present, little more than 37 million acres of BLM land have been leased for oil and gas development, whereas 293 million acres have already been set aside for conservation. This disparity clearly favors conservation but also reinforces the fact that deserving places are already being protected. Instead of villainizing American energy developers, Secretary Babbitt should accept the fact that energy development, multiple use, and conservation are not mutually exclusive activities," said Bishop. BLM Acres Leased for oil and gas in 2012 = 37,792,212 acres (source: Bureau of Land Management) Federal Conservation Lands = 293.5 million acres (source: Congressional Research Service) "As Governor, Bruce Babbitt had a logical view of public land use in this country. However, as Secretary, Babbitt abandoned his former ideologies and launched a campaign to limit energy production and public land use in this country. In the final days of the Clinton Administration, Secretary Babbitt orchestrated one of the most historic assaults on Utah's energy resources in the history of the state when he helped President Clinton establish the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument through executive fiat. This locked up the nation's largest proven coal deposit. Suggesting that the President hurry up and use the Antiquities Act to unilaterally establish new land designations clearly illustrates that Secretary Babbitt's agenda is purely political and has little to do with the vitality of states and communities. Otherwise, he would instead be encouraging these efforts to initiate at a local level, where most responsible and common sense land policies originate. I'm not opposed to new land designations, new national monuments, or even new wilderness areas, but they must be the result of collaborative efforts at the local level, and not an arbitrary formula concocted by a former presidential cabinet member turned liberal activist," Bishop added. In 1982, as Governor of the State of Arizona, Babbitt wrote that: "By any conceivable measure of the relative federal and state interest, management of the public domain in the West is not fairly shared. "This lack of management control—not lack of ownership—is frustrating planned growth in the West at the very moment it is needed most. It is as if each western state were split in two, with part administered from the state capitol and the rest from the Interior Department on ‘C' street in Washington, D.C. neither the federal nor the state interests in the public lands are protected by this confused management structure. Greater shared management is needed; it can be achieved by increasing the responsibilities of state and local governments for the public domain. "It is ironic that, while, the roots of the Sagebrush Rebellion may be traced to passage of FLPMA, the Act took significant strides toward increasing the influence of state and local government on federal land use planning activities. Section 202 of the Act establishes guidelines for BLM planning, including provisions requiring coordination with the planning and management programs of state and local governments. The Act mandates that the BLM consider state and local plans in designing resource management programs. Federal plans must be ‘consistent' with state and local efforts ‘to the maximum extent [the Secretary] finds consistent with Federal law and the purposes of the Act.' Inconsistencies between federal and nonfederal plans are to be resolved to the extent practical."
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in reaction to a report issued today by the Institute for Energy Research (IER) on "The Additional Economic Effects of Immediately Opening Federal Lands to Oil and Gas Leasing." The report, based on the findings of a study conducted by Dr. Joseph Mason, projects the impact on revenue, job creation, and overall GDP growth from increased energy production on federal lands. Today, Bishop also joined with fellow members of the Congressional Western Caucus, Congressman Stevan Pearce (NM-02), and Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (WY-at large) to encourage Chairman of the House Budget Committee Paul Ryan (WI-01) to consider IER's study and the economic benefits of energy production on public lands and waters when drafting the FY 2014 budget [letter]. "As the report illustrates, there are beneficial and responsible ways to grow revenues and jobs in this country without taxing hard-working Americans. Some view tax increases as the panacea to our nation's budgetary problems. I disagree with this notion and this study proves that there are alternative solutions. I noted in a recent letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner that increased energy production on our nation's public lands is a healthy way to bolster revenues, create jobs, and provide greater energy security. The report released today by IER confirms that utilization of the abundant resources on our public lands would be a boon for our country," said Bishop. "I appreciate the work IER and Dr. Mason did to clearly illustrate the overwhelming benefits of responsible energy production on public lands. It is increasingly frustrating to know that our country could be far better off if the President would stop placating his special interest group allies and put the interests of this country first." Key findings from the report: REVENUE: Annual increase in GDP for the next seven years: $127 Increase in annual GDP for the next thirty years: $450 billion Cumulative 37-year increase in GDP: $14.4 trillion The federal government stands to receive $2.7 trillion more in tax revenues over the next 37 years, while state and local tax revenues equal $1.1 trillion in the same time period JOBS: Job creation over the next seven years: 552,000 Annual job creation for the next thirty years: nearly 2 million Job gains would be felt in high-wage, high-skill employment like health care, education, professional fields, and the arts. Annual wage increases over the next seven years: $32 billion Cumulative wage increase over a 37 year cycle: $3.7 trillion
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today issued the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 325, The No Budget, No Pay Act: "Across this nation it's universally understood that there are consequences for failing to perform the basic functions of your job. This same level of accountability should apply to Members of Congress, which is why I support the No Budget, No Pay Act. Since April 29, 2009, the Democrat-controlled Senate has failed to produce a budget, whereas the House has consistently done its job year after year. Ironically, the Senate couldn't even pass the President's proposed budget despite the clear Democrat majority," said Congressman Bishop. "Funding the government through Continuing Resolutions gives the President and Administration too much power to shift money around. It's time Congress reasserted itself and fulfilled its duty." This bill specifically extends the Federal Government's borrowing authority by suspending enforcement of the debt ceiling through May 19, 2013. It also establishes that both the House and Senate must pass a budget by April 15 of this year. The bill includes a provision to halt pay to Representatives and Senators in the event that budgets are not passed in this time period. "The No Budget, No Pay Act makes clear that if budgets aren't passed, Members won't be paid. It is my hope that the deadlines included in the legislation will help incentivize efforts to not only pass a budget, but also address some of the gravest issues facing our nation, including reforming Washington spending, tackling the trillion-dollar deficit and stopping the sequestration cuts to defense," Bishop added.
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON--Today, Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced the Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy Development Act in both the U.S. Senate [S. 27] and U.S. House of Representatives[H.R. 356]. This legislation would facilitate the exchange of 20,000 acres of state-held mineral rights within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation for mineral rights on approximately 20,000 acres of federal land in the northern portion of the reservation in eastern Utah. "This legislation is a win-win for the state of Utah and the Ute tribe," Hatch said. "The House did the smart thing last Congress and passed this common sense bill, and under Congressman Bishop's strong leadership will hopefully do so again. It is my hope that together we can get the Senate to do the right thing and create this new opportunity for energy development in Utah." For several years, the Ute Tribe and the State of Utah have sought to exchange the mineral rights in order to preserve tribal cultural lands located within the state's current holdings. This legislation would help protect culturally sensitive areas while also providing new opportunities for potential energy development in the Uintah Basin upon which the state school trust fund relies. In previous Congresses, this legislation was viewed as non-controversial and received bi-partisan support in the House. "This is a common-sense bill that protects the interests of all parties involved. It protects sensitive tribal lands and ensures that the state does not suffer a loss regarding its ability to generate revenue for the school trust fund. I am confident this legislation will again garner support in the House and it is my hope this year that the Senate will also recognize the merits of this important bill," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Jim Matheson (UT-04), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), and Congressman Chris Stewart (UT-02), as well as Senator Mike Lee (Utah), are original co-sponsors of the legislation.
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON-- Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) has issued a letter to Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis regarding potential cuts to the Job Corps facility located in Clearfield, Utah. Utah's entire delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives joined in support of the letter, which encouraged Secretary Solis to explore other cost saving measures that would prevent student slots and jobs from being cut at the Clearfield facility. Read the letter here. For more information, please contact Congressman Bishop's office at 202-225-0453.
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON– This week, President Obama signed into law the Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act [H.R. 6060]. The legislation was introduced on June 29, 2012 by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01). It passed in the House on September 19, 2012, and in the Senate on January 1, 2013 under Unanimous Consent. The Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act modifies the Department of Interior's Recovery and Implementation program to improve the protection and recovery efforts for four endangered fish species: the Humpback chub, Razorback sucker, Bonytail chub, and the Colorado pikeminnow. Importantly, the new law includes a provision to ensure that during protection and recovery efforts, there will be a continuation of the operations that provide water and power to homes and businesses. "I am pleased that this legislation received bipartisan and bicameral support. This bill makes much-needed improvements to the recovery programs for these endangered fish and ensures that homes and businesses throughout the intermountain West continue to receive water and hydropower. The new law enables revenues from power producers to be used toward recovery and protection efforts and helps ensure that funds are no longer used for unnecessary and redundant purposes. "This new law improves upon the way we utilize federal resources and is just part of the broader efforts to reduce wasteful spending. I am pleased that we have been able to implement new policies that not only improve recovery efforts but also ensure the continued multiple-use of water resources from the Colorado River," said Congressman Bishop. The law makes the following revisions to the current Recovery Implementation Program to improve operations and accountability by: reauthorizing recovery programs paid for by power users that receive hydroelectricity from the federal Colorado River Storage Project strengthening reporting requirements on the status of the Endangered Species Act listed fish, determining projected dates for delisting, and providing information on how power revenues are being utilized for base funding. limiting funding transfer fees from historic levels of 22% to 3%, thereby reducing wasteful overhead. This is consistent with other Department of Interior programs. This includes limiting unnecessary travel of federal employees from their duty stations to Washington, D.C. for the sole purpose of lobbying congress in order to advocate for recovery programs. Resources spent on travel detract from funds that could be utilized in recovery and mitigation efforts.
01.15.2013	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) offered an amendment to the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013 (H.R. 152) that would help ensure Hurricane Sandy disaster relief funds are not misused to acquire new federal land. Today, the House approved Bishop's amendment as well as the final version of H.R. 152, which will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. The Disaster Relief Appropriations act provides $50.7 billion in funding for recovery efforts associated with Hurricane Sandy. Bishop's amendment specifically prevents the U.S. Department of Interior and the U.S. Department of Agriculture from using these funds to acquire new federal land. Bishop stated that, "We must put safeguards in place to ensure that disaster relief funds are used appropriately and responsibly to address immediate emergency needs. Land acquisition does not qualify as "emergency" nor "immediate" hurricane relief." The federal government currently owns 660 million acres, making it the largest land owner in the United States. This essentially equates to one third of the United States' landmass. "Resources allocated to the Departments of Interior and Agriculture ought to address needs on existing federal land and not the acquisition of new land. As things stand, there was already a maintenance backlog on our federal lands prior to Hurricane Sandy. The last thing we need to be doing is exacerbating this problem by adding to the federal estate," Bishop added. Click here to view a clip of Bishop's remarks on the amendment
01.09.2013	WASHINGTON–Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) is scheduled to attend the Energy Development Summit hosted by Utah Governor Gary Herbert, tomorrow, January 10, 2013. Bishop is one of the leading advocates in Washington for the responsible use and production of our nation's abundant domestic, renewable, and alternative energy resources, including those located in the State of Utah. Utah is among the states that have vast oil and gas resources located throughout federally managed lands. Congressman Bishop's participation in the Energy Development Summit includes delivering remarks and a presentation during the breakout session on public lands, which begins at 9:00 a.m., January 10th. Bishop is presently the Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives. The breakout session will also include Bureau of Land Management State Director Juan Palma, State Representative Roger Barrus, as well as other leaders and stakeholders. In the afternoon, Bishop will join Senator Hatch, Senator Lee, and Congressman Stewart on the Congressional panel, scheduled for 1:00 p.m. in the Main Hall. "I look forward to attending Governor Herbert's annual energy summit and discussing the responsible utilization of Utah's abundant energy resources, which is especially key as our country moves towards greater energy independence. Through innovative and cutting edge technologies, our nation is finding new ways to identify, access, and develop the vast and diverse resources located right here in the United States. We want to make sure that Utah remains at the forefront of these exciting developments as we work toward weaning our nation off its dependence of foreign and often unstable countries," said Bishop. WHO: Rep. Rob Bishop, Governor Herbert, and other local and statewide leaders WHAT: 2013 Utah Energy Development Summit WHERE: Salt Palace Convention Center 300 West South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah DATE: January 10-11 TIME: January 10th: 9:00 a.m. MST January 11th: 8:30 a.m. MST
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON– Today, the 113th Congress convened for the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) was among those sworn in during the official ceremony that took place in the U.S. House Chamber. Bishop was elected in November to represent Utah's First Congressional District for a sixth term Speaker of the House John Boehner has officially requested that Congressman Bishop return to the powerful House Rules Committee. In addition to his assignment on the Rules Committee, Bishop will serve on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee where he will be Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee. "As a lifelong resident of northern Utah, I am humbled by the opportunity to continue representing Utah back in Washington and ensure that the priorities and interests of our district have a voice in Congress. I will continue to fight to reduce government interference in the lives of all Americans and will work to ensure that our liberties and freedoms are protected. In addition to my committee assignments, one of my highest priorities this congress will be working toward educating my fellow colleagues on the concept of federalism and the importance of disbursing power and money back to the people and to the states as our Founding Fathers intended. Embracing these concepts is essential to our nation's fiscal health and ultimately the salvation of our country," said Bishop.
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON-- Representative Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted against H.R. 8 this evening because the legislation failed to prevent sequestration from occurring and did not adequately address reckless government spending. "Our goal was always to protect as many Americans as possible from tax increases and to cut spending. There are good things about this deal, like the fact that taxes are reduced for most people and the AMT fix and death tax rates are made permanent. Until very recently, virtually no Democrats were talking about extending the tax cuts, and today, Congress made most of the tax cuts permanent. Those are all positives. If the Senate had just stopped there, this deal would have been much better than it ended up. Unfortunately, Democrats in control of the White House and Senate avoided real spending cuts and insisted on too much revenue. They included things like raising dividend taxes, increasing the highest rate within the death tax, which was not necessary, and most importantly for our area, doing nothing on sequestration. They just kicked it down the road for two months and I have no confidence that the Administration or the Senate are serious about coming back and really solving this military funding problem."
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON–In an effort to provide our armed forces with the necessary resources and technology to ensure the safety of our country, at home and abroad, the House of Representatives passed the conference report for the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), whose district includes Hill Air Force Base, Tooele Army Depot, and Dugway Proving Grounds, voted in support of the measu "Providing for the common defense of our country is one of the few things to which we are constitutionally bound. With much instability and turmoil occurring around the world, it is essential that the United States continue to have robust national defense capabilities. The final conference report that we voted on today provides critical funding for defense operations, many of which are supported by military installations in Utah," said Bishop. Within the FY2013 legislation is a provision that seeks to address some of the confusion associated with detention and the Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). Specifically, language was inserted into the bill to clarify and strengthen the protection of Americans' due process rights. The provision helps to clarify that the AUMF and last year's NDAA do not suspend constitutional rights, including habeas corpus. Senators Lee (R-UT) and Feinstein (D-CA) had included language in the Senate version of this year's bill that was also targeted at clarifying the detainee issue. During the conference process, the House language was ultimately adopted. "I am pleased that members in both chambers were able to push for this type of clarification. It's important that the legislation is clear about the preeminence of our civil liberties and due process for all Americans," Bishop added. The provision added to the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act states that, "nothing in the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40) (AUMF) or the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81) (FY 2012 NDAA) shall be construed to deny the availability of the writ of habeas corpus or to deny any Constitutional rights in an Article III court for any person who is lawfully in the United States when detained and who is otherwise entitled to the availability of such writ or such rights." -30-
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (WA-04) today named Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation. This subcommittee will have similar jurisdiction as the former National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands subcommittee, however, it will now include a greater emphasis on environmental reform and oversight of the National Environmental Policy Act (NE Bishop is a senior member of the House Natural Resources Committee and has served there in a number of different capacities, namely as the top Republican of the National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee. Bishop is an ardent proponent of the multiple use of public lands and resources for the benefit of all. He consistently champions efforts to ensure that the voices of those whose livelihoods depend upon access to public lands and resources are represented in Washington, D.C. "I look forward to continuing to serve on the House Natural Resources Committee and am honored to be named Chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee. If our public lands were united, it would be ranked among the 10 largest countries in the world. These lands are home to some of our national treasures and it is my goal as Chairman to ensure that those areas are preserved for future generations to enjoy. In addition, our nation's federal estate includes an abundance of traditional and renewable energy resources and provides opportunities for ranchers, farmers, and other industries to grow and succeed. Preserving and protecting these special places, and ensuring that our lands remain accessible for the mutual benefit of all, will continue to be among my chief priorities at the committee. In addition, it is essential that we examine and consider improvements to current environmental laws. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of some of these policies," said Bishop. In addition to the House Natural Resources Committee, Bishop will serve on the House Armed Services Committee.
12.18.2012	WASHINGTON–Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) today, calling on them to incorporate Federalism into their discussions about how to address the fiscal challenges currently before the country. He reminds them that, "it was the traditional role of the Senate to protect the prerogatives of states," and that, "one of the biggest problems undermining our nation's financial well-being is the federal government's stretch of the Constitution to assume responsibilities best left to state and local government." Bishop is a co-founder of the Congressional 10th Amendment Task Force and a consistent champion of the concept of Federalism. In the letter, Bishop illustrates that "cuts" or reduced federal spending aren't enough, and that Congress "ought to address what level of government is best-suited for administering particular programs." Bishop also notes that, "now is the time to reinvigorate that constitutional role of the Senate." Additional excerpts of the letter: "Federalism was the Founding Fathers' formula for freedom. However, Federalism principles are often mistakenly associated exclusively with conservative ideology. This is an unfair caricature. Federalism is simply the way in which authority and power between states, the federal government, and ultimately the American people is delegated. It is neither conservative nor liberal, neither Republican nor Democratic. It is the principle that allows people to choose what is important to them in their local communities. It is giving people an option on how they wish to live their lives." "A Federalism debate should be the most important political, legal, and Constitutional debate taking place in America today. It goes to our very roots as a nation, and now is the time for a reinvigorated discussion as we seek solutions to properly address and protect our nation's and children's financial future and wellbeing." "We cannot afford to lose another opportunity to enact reforms that will prevent our country from suffering from the same financial crisis in the future."
12.17.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Park, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee, today raised concern over the potential use of the Antiquities Act to unilaterally create a new national monument on more than 230,000 acres of land in New Mexico—an area more than five times the size of Washington, D "It's nice that Secretary Salazar held a meeting on Saturday but many would argue that the gathering failed to provide sufficient opportunity for real public input and participation from the community, stakeholders, and local leaders. This is not the appropriate course that should be taken when considering new policies and land designations that affect so many livelihoods," said Congressman Bishop. Reports suggest that Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar is exploring options to establish a new national monument in the Rio Grande del Norte area of New Mexico. He is said to be considering recommending the use of the controversial Antiquities Act, which gives the President executive fiat to unilaterally designate areas as national monuments whether there is public support for them or not. This tool has often been considered a way to lock up federal land and resources behind Congress' back. In 1996, President Bill Clinton used the Antiquities Act to designate nearly 1.9 million acres as the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument in Utah, locking up one of the largest known coal fields in the United States. "Chairman Bingaman's bill to designate this area failed to advance in his own Democrat-controlled Senate the past two sessions of Congress. This lack of action and urgency raises the question that the area is not immediately threatened or endangered". Bishop added. "I do not oppose national monuments, but there is a necessary and appropriate course that must be taken. First and foremost, it is imperative that the impetus for their establishment is not the result of special interest group pressure, but rather strong consensus from the state, local communities, residents, and stakeholders. Second, that designations adhere to the original intent of the Antiquities Act. Finally, that Congress, through the regular legislative process, determine the ultimate designations for the federal lands in question. I remained concerned that the Administration is using the Antiquities Act to not only circumvent Congress, but also forgo addressing the concerns of those who stand to be affected by this the most."
12.14.2012	Our office is no longer taking requests for tickets to the Presidential Inauguration. We are in the process of sorting through the existing requests and on Monday, December 17, will begin to contact those whose requests we are able to accommodate. Thank you.
12.12.2012	WASHINGTON– House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) today announced that Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will serve on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) for the 113th Congress. "I am honored that my good friend Rob Bishop has chosen to return to the Armed Services Committee. His wisdom and experience will be invaluable to me as we cope with the dual challenges of reduced resources at home and emerging dangers abroad," said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon. During the 112th Congress, Congressman Bishop was given the unique privilege of serving on the powerful House Rules Committee and therefore took a temporary leave from the House Armed Services Committee. Since Bishop was able to maintain his seniority during that time, he'll return as a senior member of the committee. "Ensuring the current and future vitality of Hill Air Force Base and all other military installations in Utah has always been one of my highest priorities. The House Armed Services Committee provides the greatest opportunity to participate in the critical discussions and decisions that not only impact the future of Utah, but also that of the entire country. This has become increasingly important given the current Administration's continued assault on defense resources," said Congressman Bishop. Bishop first joined the House Armed Services Committee in 2003, following his election to the House. He has served on the committee since then with the exception of the 109th Congress, during which time he served exclusively on the powerful House Rules Committee.
11.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01)was invited to participate in a panel discussion held today by the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) during their States and Nation Policy Summit in Washington, D.C. The panel focused on the core constitutional principle of federalism. Bishop is among those leading the efforts to encourage the House and Senate, both Republicans and Democrats, to apply the concept of federalism to all business conducted in Congress.
11.27.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) along with Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Steve Pearce (NM-02) today urged the House to consider energy development as a way to increase revenues without having to increase taxes on hard working Americans. In a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner, Bishop and Pearce also emphasized that as Congress moves toward addressing the looming fiscal cliff, immediate steps must be taken to reduce spending. They warned that increases proposed by the President would only fuel further irresponsible spending and would be detrimental to the already fragile economy. They noted in the letter that, "the October deficit was $120 billion, up from $98.5 billion for the previous year." However, they cautioned that, "this was not the result of a lack of revenues." In fact, "revenues actually rose 13% over the same period from a year ago." "During the month of October, spending increased 16% above October's fiscal year 2012 levels." These numbers illustrate that the deficit was fueled by out-of-control government spending. Recognizing that the President and some in Congress will insist that new revenues be part of the equation, Bishop and Pearce offer an alternative to new tax hikes. In the letter, they encourage the consideration of energy production, the disposal of some of the federal government's vast land holdings, and the divesting of excess and surplus federal assets as a way to generate new revenue. Bishop said of this proposal, "This will not only meet the needs of those who favor new revenues as a solution, but will also grow jobs, strengthen local and state economies, reduce importation of foreign resources, and help cut down on the cost of energy. It's a win-win proposition." Excerpts of the letter: "By tapping into our nation's abundant energy resources, we could boost revenues through increased economic activity, job creation, and payments to the U.S. Treasury. Already, the oil and gas industry contributes roughly $31.4 billion per year to the U.S. Treasury in bonus, rent, royalty, and tax payments[4] and an additional $38 billion in state and local taxes[5]. More favorable policies to allow for responsible development of federally-owned land and water would increase these figures considerably." "Oil production on federal lands fell by an average of 275,000 barrels per day in FY2011, which represents a loss not only to our domestic oil supply but also to the U.S. Treasury." "Divesting the federal government of its vast land holdings could pay down the deficit and reduce spending. The federal government owns roughly 650 million acres of land, or 1/3 of the entire landmass of our country. Over 90% of this land is located in the western states and most of it we do not even need. "Strategically transferring ownership of these lands where it makes sense would reduce duplicative land management costs, boost revenues through the resultant economic activity of more productive and local land management, and is consistent with the principles of federalism our founding fathers envisioned." [4] American's oil and natural gas industry pays its fair share. Retrieved November 16, 2012 from http://www.api.org/policy-and-issues/policy-items/taxes/paying-our-fair-share.aspx [5] Email from IPAA (11/16/2012) The REAL Facts on Independent Producer Taxes.
11.16.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) to issue a letter to the President addressing a recent proposal put for by the Outdoor Industries Association that requested the establishment of a new 1.4 million acre national monument in the state of Utah. Specifically, the Outdoor Industries Association requested that the President use the Antiquities Act to create a new national monument around the existing Canyonlands National Park. Congressmen Bishop and Chaffetz, along with Senators Hatch and Lee oppose the use of the Antiquities Act to create a new national monument because it circumvents the open, public process and excludes input from local officials, community members, stakeholders and the state. To read more about the concerns outlined in the letter, click here.
10.26.2012	Today, Speaker of the House John Boehner (OH-08) issued a letter to President Obama requesting further answers on the September 11, 2012 Benghazi, Libya terrorist attacks. Congressman Rob Bishop joins with Speaker Boehner calling on the White House to answer the following questions about information related to the attacks. (Courtesy of the Speaker's Office) Letter to President Obama: Americans Deserve Answers on Libya Terrorist Attacks The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012 was a sobering reminder of the virulent and dangerous threats facing the United States, its interests, and its partners. The House of Representatives mourns the deaths of Ambassador Stevens and three other patriotic Americans and continues to honor the bravery and professionalism of the United States personnel on the ground on that day. The national debate since the tragedy, however, demonstrates many Americans remain concerned and frustrated about how your Administration has handled the response to the attack. No one in your Administration can substitute for your authority and voice to explain to the American people the strategy and policies you directed during and in the aftermath of the terrorist attack. The American public is increasingly reading information contradicting early accounts by your Administration of the causes of the events of the day. In the absence of your direct engagement to clarify these concerns, the public's frustration and confusion is likely to discredit efforts to achieve our shared goals of justice and accountability for the direct assault on American interests and the deaths of four public servants. The new information in the public domain is also deeply troubling to many House Members who attended an interagency briefing in September, as there are perceived inconsistencies between what they learned during the briefing and the now widely available documentation regarding what was known at the time of the attack. I respectfully request that you, as our country's President and Commander-in-Chief, publicly address the following questions and concerns that are on the minds of many of our fellow Americans: It is clear from publicly-available information that Ambassador Stevens and our personnel on the ground in Libya had significant concerns about security in Benghazi and around the consulate. While the Department of State is responding to questions regarding its decisions, it is reasonable to believe you and senior Administration officials would have at some point been personally briefed by Ambassador Stevens, given the high-profile nature of our bilateral relationship and significant challenges facing the Libyan people and government, as well as our national interests in Libya. Your public remarks on October 22, 2012 focused on the merits of democratic transition in Libya, which are widely supported in Congress, but you did not take the opportunity to discuss whether you were aware of the rising trend in militias and other security problems the country team was monitoring. When was the last time you were briefed by Ambassador Stevens about the evolving security and political situation in Libya? Did he make any direct observations or raise any concerns to you or your staff about the security situation in country? There are reports that military options and assets were offered to and considered by the White House during and in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attack. Can you explain what options were presented to you or your staff, and why it appears assets were not allowed to be pre-positioned, let alone utilized? If these reports are accurate, the artificial constraint on the range of options at your disposal would be deeply troubling. The National Security Council staff receives significant amounts of raw information and intelligence from throughout the government on a daily basis, and significant and urgent items are flagged for senior White House policymakers. It is clear that information now in the public domain contradicts how you and senior Administration officials consistently described the cause and nature of the terrorist attack in the days and weeks immediately following. Why did the Administration fail to account for facts that were known at the time? I also request that you explain how the Administration's policy response has shifted now that it is publicly acknowledging the attack as an act of terrorism and not a result of an escalating protest against an internet video. Many Americans are frustrated and alarmed to read news that agencies appear to have better access to the site of the attack and to individuals of interest than the Administration. House Republicans have consistently expressed concern with your preference for a law enforcement response to acts of terrorism, and news reports have documented the limits of and the missed opportunities by insisting the response to the attack be handled as a criminal investigation. The American people deserve to know how your Administration is re-adjusting its response on this critical point, as well as how you intend to handle the detainment and interviews of persons of interest. During your public appearance on October 22, 2012, you asked your fellow Americans to be mindful of the public expressions of support for the United States and outrage regarding the attacks by many Libyans. The House of Representatives was and is grateful for that public support. At the same time, public sentiment cannot substitute for the political willingness and capacity of any government to assist the United States in achieving its national security objectives. Given the public documentation of the limits of what the Libyan government can do, it is important for you to address whether you would be willing to take actions on behalf of United States national security interests unilaterally when there is a lack of will or capacity by our partners. Mr. President, our country will not be able to move on from the tragedy of September 11, 2012 until the public better understands the answers to these key questions and concerns. I request you publicly address the public regarding these issues as soon as possible. Sincerely, John A. Boehner
10.18.2012	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) met with U. S. Air Force (USAF) General Janet Wolfenbarger at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (AFB) to discuss the future of Hill AFB. Bishop was joined by fellow Members on the House Military Depot and Industrial Facilities Caucus, Jeff Miller (FL-01), Mike Turner (OH-03), Tom Cole (OK-04), and Austin Scott (GA-08). "The future of Hill Air Force Base has been and will continue to be one of my highest priorities. Today's meeting with General Wolfenbarger was exceptionally productive and I was encouraged to hear that it is also the goal of the Air Force to help grow the workforce at Hill AFB, ensuring its vitality now and well into the future," said Congressman Bishop. "The current Administration has devastated defense funding beyond its proportionate share of budgetary cuts, which has negatively impacted bases across the country. I was pleased to hear that, despite the previous changes the Administration has made to Air Force Depots, they are willing to maintain three viable air logistic complexes- Hill being one of those." During the meeting with Gen. Wolfenbarger Congressman Bishop shared his concerns over the impact that cuts to defense funding have had on Utah's military installations and what further cuts would mean for the state and local communities. Bishop noted that overall he was pleased with the meeting and looks forward to working with Gen. Wolfenbarger to maintain Hill's vital role in our national defense capabilities.
10.08.2012	WASHINGTON– On Tuesday, October 9, 2012, more than 200 high school students from around Utah's First Congressional District will participate in the 8th annual Education Conference held each year at the Utah State Capitol by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT). The conference provides students with an opportunity to expand on their current civics and government studies by participating in discussions and group debates about the history of government as well as policies currently being addressed at the state and federal levels. "Having served as a teacher in Utah's public school system for the better part of three decades, I look forward to the annual education conference because it provides students with an opportunity to actively engage in the critical analysis of the same policy debates occurring at the state and federal levels. As a former educator and Member of Congress I realized that text books do a good job of establishing a foundation of the issues, but an education conference could provide students with an opportunity to further their understanding of government beyond the typical classroom setting. At the conference, students will meet with peers from other schools to analyze and debate some of the very issues being addressed by the Utah State Legislature as well as Congress," said Congressman Bishop. Students were selected by their teachers for attendance at this event. Invitations were sent to all high schools and school districts located in the First Congressional District. WHAT: Annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop WHERE: Utah State Capitol Complex 350 N. State Street Salt Lake City, UT 84114 DATE: TOMORROW, Tuesday, October 09, 2012 TIME: 8:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. MDT Approximate schedule: Congressman Bishop will deliver opening remarks shortly after 8:00 a.m. MDT. Following his remarks, students will meet in break-out discussions led by Congressman Bishop, local policy experts, and community leaders from Utah. From 11:00 a.m.–12:00 p.m. students will break for lunch. Lunch will be followed by case-studies examining current state and federal policy issues. *This event is open to the media
10.02.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee, and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense, and Foreign Operations and whose district includes Provo, Utah, released the following statements regarding the shooting of U.S. Border Patrol Agents in Naco, Arizona. Naco, Arizona is located in the U.S. Border Patrol's Tucson Sector and the agents were from the Brian A. Terry Border Patrol Station, which was recently named in honor of fallen Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry. One agent, Nicolas Ivie of Provo, Utah, was fatally shot. The shootings occurred in the immediate proximity of federal lands and Congressman Bishop and Congressman Chaffetz are awaiting further details of the incident. In his role as Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations, Rep. Chaffetz has been keenly aware of the continued violence along the U.S.-Mexico border. Congressman Chaffetz has been a leader in the U.S. House in bringing information to light regarding the murder of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry, as well as the escalating gun violence along the border. "The senseless act of violence that claimed the life of border patrol agent and Utah native Nicolas Ivie is a tragedy. My heart goes out to Agent Ivie's family and I extend to them my gratitude for their son's service and sacrifice. Those who perpetrated this crime must be found and brought to justice without delay. I support a full and immediate investigation of this incident. As the facts come to light, we must take measures to ensure the safety and security of our border patrol and our residents in the region. I will be no less vigilant in bringing to justice the perpetrators of this most recent heinous attack on an American agent," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. Congressman Bishop authored the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505] to help bolster security on some of the most crime-ridden parts of our border. The bill, passed in the House on June 19, 2012, would enable the U.S. Border Patrol to have greater access to federal lands where current federal land management policies limit their ability to apprehend and deter traffickers and maintain a routine presence. "First and foremost, I would like to extend my prayers and condolences to the Ivie family. It is devastating that this young man is the latest victim of the ongoing violence occurring throughout the southern border region. Agent Brian Terry lost his life on federal lands about 70 miles from where this incident took place. Today's shootings are a grim reminder that our lands along the border remain overrun with criminal activity from drug cartels and other smuggling operations," said Congressman Rob Bishop. "Now is the time that we must come together in a bipartisan way to make sure our borders are secure and safe."
09.19.2012	WASHINGTON– Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act [H.R. 6060], which modifies the Department of Interior's Recovery and Implementation Program. This legislation, authored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), will help protect and recover four endangered fish species while ensuring that water resources from the Colorado River continue to supply vital water and power resources to homes and businesses. Specifically, the Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act supports recovery efforts for the Humpback chub, Razorback sucker, Bonytail chub, and the Colorado Pikeminnow. The protection and recovery of these species allows for the continuation of existing operations that provide water for homes and businesses as well as hydroelectric power. "H.R. 6060 is bipartisan legislation designed to keep the lights on and water running for millions in parts of the intermountain West while reforming existing fish recovery programs. The bill enables revenues from power producers to be used toward recovery and protection efforts and helps ensure that funds are no longer used for unnecessary and redundant purposes. By ensuring that federal resources are spent wisely, I am confident that we will improve the long-term recovery of these fish species, which in-turn will allow for the long-term multiple-use of water resources from the Colorado River," said Congressman Bishop. The legislation makes the following revisions to the Recovery Implementation Program to improve operations and accountability by: reauthorizing recovery programs paid for by power users that receive hydroelectricity from the federal Colorado River Storage Project strengthening reporting requirements on the status of the ESA listed fish, determining projected dates for delisting, and providing information on how power revenues are being utilized for base funding. limiting funding transfer fees from historic levels of 22% to 3%, thereby reducing wasteful overhead. This is consistent with other Department of Interior programs. This includes limiting unnecessary travel of federal employees from their duty stations to Washington, D.C. for the sole purpose of lobbying congress in order to advocate for recovery programs. Resources spent on travel detract from funds that could be utilized in recovery and mitigation efforts.
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today voted in support of the National Security and Job Protection Act (H.R. 6365), which provides a clear roadmap to the repeal of sequestration. Specifically, this legislation guarantees that the FY2013 sequester scheduled to occur on January 2, 2013 would be repealed upon the enactment of the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012 or similar legislation that offsets the amount of cuts created by an across-the-board 15% reduction in national defense and non-defense discretionary spending. In addition, the legislation requires that by October 15, 2012, President Obama submit a plan to replace the January 2, 2013 sequester with other savings. "I voted against the Budget Control Act and against the establishment of the supercommittee because sequestration would be devastating to our country. Secretary Panetta himself has cautioned against letting sequestration occur, noting the detrimental impact it would have on our national defense capabilities. It must be stopped and the President's inaction on this matter illustrates that he's either incapable or unwilling to lead our country. It would behoove him to take a break from the campaign trail to sit down with military leaders, including Secretary Panetta, to get a clear understanding of why our nation cannot sustain sequestration. Our nation desperately needs stability, not more uncertainty. While this bill is by no means a panacea, it's an important step in the right direction toward bringing the certainty we need. I will continue fighting in opposition against the sequester as I have done since this ill-conceived idea was unfortunately triggered by the supercommittee's failure to reach an agreement," said Congressman Bishop.
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON— Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement in observance of the eleventh anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001: "On September 11, 2001, I was teaching at Box Elder High School. Like the rest of the country, my students and I were affixed to the news as details surfaced about who may have been responsible for carrying out the attacks. Of the many concerns that crossed my mind that morning, I remember worrying about what this meant for the future of our country, especially the futures of my children, my grandchildren, and my students. "For nine of the 11 years since the attacks, I have had the honor of Representing Utah's First District. In that time I have had the opportunity to join with Members on both sides of the aisle in support of policies and innovative defense technologies that will hopefully help future generations live in a freer and safer world. "On this 11th anniversary of September 11th, we remember the three Utahns who were killed in the attack, the nearly 3,000 others who lost their lives that day, and the many other heroes who have made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of freedom. "While Osama bin Laden has been brought to justice, tyrants and terrorists continue to hamper freedom throughout the world. I am proud of the American men and women serving in support of the efforts to combat tyranny and promote liberty around the globe."
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will host town hall meetings on Tuesday, August 21, 2012 in Cache and Box Elder counties. During the meetings, Rob will give an update on current events in Congress and will discuss federal policies and how they impact the state. He will also address questions and concerns from participants. "I always look forward to town hall meetings because they provide an open forum for members of the community to share how federal policies affect their lives and the communities in which they live. I take the concerns shared during these meetings back to Washington and ensure that they are addressed as future policies are discussed and considered by the House," said Bishop. Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year as well as every August during the Congressional summer work period to provide Utahns with an opportunity to have face-to-face discussions about their questions and concerns. Cache County WHAT: Cache County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Cache County Council Chambers 199 N Main Street Logan, Utah DATE: Tuesday, August 21, 2012 TIME: 6:00 p.m. MDT Box Elder County WHAT: Box Elder County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Brigham City Hall 20 N Main Street Brigham City, Utah DATE: Tuesday, August 21, 2012 TIME: 8:00 p.m. MDT -30-
08.14.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will host town hall meetings on Tuesday, August 14, 2012 in Davis and Weber counties. During the meetings he will give an update on current events in Congress and will discuss federal policies and how they impact the state. He will also address any questions and concerns that local residents may have. "I always look forward to town hall meetings because they provide an open forum for members of the community to share how federal policies affect their lives and the communities in which they live. I take the concerns shared during these meetings back to Washington and ensure that they are addressed as future policies are discussed and considered by the House," said Bishop. Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year as well as every August during the Congressional summer work period to provide Utahns with an opportunity to have face-to-face discussions about their questions and concerns. Davis County WHAT: Davis County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Layton City Council Chambers 437 Wasatch Dr Layton, Utah DATE: Tuesday, August 14, 2012 TIME: 6:00 p.m. MDT Weber County WHAT: Weber County Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Riverdale Senior Center 4433 S 900 W Riverdale, Utah DATE: Tuesday, August 14, 2012 TIME: 6:00 p.m. MDT -30-
08.03.2012	WASHINGTON—Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today released the following statement in response to NASA's decision to exclude ATK from the companies awarded the contract for the Commercial Crew Integrated Capability (CCiCap) initiative: "I am disappointed and disheartened by the news that NASA has excluded ATK from the companies that were awarded the contract for the Commercial Crew Integrated Capability (CCiCap) initiative. ATK is a proven leader and their track record is beyond exemplary. It was my understanding that ATK's Liberty proposal ranked very high in technical merit, and was the lowest-risk option. I support NASA's efforts to engage private industry as part of our efforts to develop the next generation of innovate cutting edge space travel and missile defense capabilities. America was once recognized globally as the preeminent leader in exploration of the cosmos and it is my hope that one day we can regain that title. Recently, NASA Administration Charlie Bolden said that, 'I have no desire to do a Mars landing on our own,' and that ‘The U.S. cannot always be the leader, but we can be the inspiration leader through international cooperation in space exploration.' Based on these comments I remain concerned that space leadership remains a low priority for this Administration. This is just another example of how this administration has been a total disappointment. "I will be joining with Senator Hatch, Senator Lee as well as the rest of the delegation to further investigate every detail of how NASA arrived at today's disappointing decision."
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON– Bureau of Land Management guidance manuals recently discovered by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) show that the U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) has resurrected the controversial Wild Lands policy killed by Congress in April 2011. Included in the manuals is language directly lifted from Secretarial order 3310 and its supporting documents, known as the DOI's Wild Lands memo, illustrating how BLM employees are to identify and manage lands with wilderness characteristics. Congressman Rob Bishop and Senator Orrin Hatch, along with other Senators and Representatives from the West, today issued a letter to Secretary Ken Salazar outlining concerns and questions about the DOI's efforts to re-establish Wild Lands through the new guidance manuals. [links to manuals found within first two footnotes of summary] Background: On December 22, 2010 Secretary Salazar and the Bureau of Land Management unveiled a new type of land designation known as Wild Lands, which allowed the DOI to identify and manage de-facto wilderness areas without having to go through the necessary and open congressional process. On April 15, 2011, President Obama codified a Congressional defunding provision prompting DOI Secretary Ken Salazar to table the new Wild Lands initiative, which was widely opposed by a broad range of congressional members and almost all western public lands states. Despite far reaching opposition to previous attempts to establish de-facto wilderness areas, the DOI is yet again looking for ways to apply strict land management practices to federal lands without officially the lands being identified and designated through regular order. In the new guidance manuals, the DOI has carefully outlined how BLM employees should apply new land management practices that essentially create de-facto wilderness areas. Many of the directives use language taken directly from the controversial and widely opposed Wild Lands initiative and unfairly stack the deck against multiple-use management. "Once again, the Obama Administration shows its ‘Washington knows best' mentality," Hatch said. "Even though these proposals have already been overwhelmingly rejected, the Administration is attempting to administratively put these policies in place. This proposal will give Washington bureaucrats more control over the lands in Utah and across the West. It's wrong, and the Interior Department needs to stop trying to keep the public off the public lands," said Senator Hatch. "I am troubled and angered by similarities found between the contents of the hand books and the defunct Wild Lands proposal. This is clearly an effort to establish ‘Wild Lands 2.0' and abandons all previous commitments Secretary Salazar made to me and many other western Members to work openly and collaboratively on new land management practices. Excerpts within these handbooks clearly depict a thinly veiled effort on behalf of this Administration to further limit access to our nation's public lands. I expect a prompt response from Secretary Salazar and will continue to pursue this issue to ensure that the livelihoods of westerners are protected," said Congressman Bishop.
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today voted in favor of the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act of 2012 [H.R. 8], which will prevent the largest tax increase in American history by extending current rates on all income tax levels for one additional year. "Raising taxes on anyone right now would have a similar effect on our economy as ice skates would on an Olympic runner. Things would be exponentially slower, a lot more unsteady, and would destroy the ability to remain competitive globally. Extending the current tax rates is the right thing for this country. Raising taxes on small businesses is the last thing we should be doing and therefore I'm pleased to support this common-sense legislation. Washington does not have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem, so let's let hard working Americans keep more of their hard earned money. By reducing taxes, Americans will be able to reinvest in our country, which will ultimately help grow businesses and create jobs," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, the legislation: · Extends all current individual tax rates · Keeps the top rate of 15% on capital gains · Maintains the 35% top rate and $5 million exemption for the death tax · Protects the middle class with regards to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) for 2012 and 2013 · Extends small business expensing · Extends the current $1,000 child tax credit · Extends the marriage penalty relief
07.26.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today lauded passage of the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act [H.R. 4078], a package of legislative proposals that address federal rules and requirements placed on businesses. If passed by the Senate, this legislation would, among other things, freeze burdensome federal regulations until national unemployment falls to six percent or lower. "Limiting the regulatory burden will make it easier to start a new business and will help existing businesses succeed during these tough economic times," said Bishop. A recent survey conducted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce found that more than half of small businesses cited regulations as the top threat to their business. Such onerous regulations and requirements cost businesses an average of $10,585 per employee in 2008. "Business owners have told us that red tape hinders new development and growth and is placing a significant financial burden on those already struggling to keep their doors open. This legislation gives businesses the relief and certainty they need to expand and grow, which is key to our economic recovery. Reduce the red tape and we'll reduce unemployment," Bishop added.
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted in support of the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2012 [H.R. 459], which passed today in the House with bipartisan support. Bishop is a co-sponsor of the measure, which would give the Government Accountability Office greater oversight over the Federal Reserve including the ability to conduct a full audit of the agency. "The Federal Reserve, with its impact on the flow of credit and money in this country, obviously has a huge influence on our overall economy. We are in the midst of a serious economic crisis and Congress deserves to see a detailed report about the policies and workings of this agency. A full audit of the Fed based on openness and transparency, and without restrictions, will help guide decisions going forward and ensure that taxpayer dollars are managed appropriately," said Congressman Bishop.
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON– Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted 244-185 to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which, among many things, mandates that every American prove on their tax returns that they have healthcare coverage. If the policy goes unaddressed, the Internal Revenue Service will be charged with enforcement of the laws and will administer penalties on those failing to meet all aspects of the mandate. Following passage of the legislation to repeal Obamacare, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement: "Obamacare is one of history's most egregious examples of federal overreach. Our founding fathers would be horrified by the bill's assault on individual freedom and liberty. Certainly this is not what they intended when they drafted the Constitution and in fact, they sought to protect us against such intrusive policies when they established the 10th Amendment. Tragically federalism has evolved from being a guiding principle of decision making in Congress to merely a discussion or paper topic in classrooms. That is one of the biggest failures of both the House and Senate and in order to reinvigorate all that makes this country great, we have to empower the American people and reduce the power of the federal government. An essential part of those efforts is the repeal of Obamacare. I'm proud to support the passage of this measure and will continue to advocate for full repeal until we restore the ability of all Americans to choose how to best address their individual healthcare needs."
07.10.2012	WASHINGTON–Today U.S. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of legislation that would fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as "Obamacare." In his remarks, Bishop addressed Democrat rhetoric that the House should not be repealing the costly healthcare tax, but rather voting on more jobs bills. Bishop noted that to date, House Republicans have passed more than 30 bills that would create jobs--all of which are sitting idle in the Senate with Senate Democrats refusing to bring them to the floor for a vote. Bishop also addressed the importance of allowing states, not the federal government, to determine how to best address the healthcare needs of this country. He specifically recognized the 10th Amendment as the safeguard established by the Founding Fathers that was intended to restrain federal power, entrusting the primary responsibilities of governance to the people and states. This amendment was to prevent the federal government from infringing on the rights of people and imposing one-size-fits-all policies such as Obamacare.
07.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Today President Obama proposed raising taxes on families and businesses earning more than 250,000. For many small businesses the increased tax burden could jeopardize their ability to stay solvent, let alone create jobs. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to the President's announcement: "Washington does not have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem. Singling out small businesses and other job creators with this new tax increase makes no sense and will only serve to hamper future job creation. With unemployment over eight percent for more than 41 months, sticking it to our nation's job creators is the last thing we should be doing. "Americans are fatigued by the President's continued efforts to make them shoulder the burden of the current economic crisis. Headlining the dialogue about how we reinvigorate the economy should be spending restraint and fiscal responsibility, not tax increases or how to bilk hardworking taxpayers out of even more of their hard-earned money. Contrary to what the President would like us to believe, raising taxes is not a panacea. Giving the federal government more money only fuels its addiction to spend."
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON– In an effort to ensure that water resources from the Colorado River continue to supply vital water and power resources to homes and businesses, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today introduced the Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act [H.R. 6060]. The legislation helps facilitate the recovery of four endangered fish species, ensuring compliance with the Endangered Species Act (ESA) for over 1,600 water projects that withdraw water from the Colorado River. The Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act supports recovery efforts for the Humpback chub, Razorback sucker, Bonytail chub, and the Colorado Pikeminnow. Protection and recovery of these species is necessary to maintain existing operations that provide water for homes and businesses as well as hydroelectric power. "Water is essential to supporting all aspects of life. However, there are some laws that influence access and utilization of this vital resource when there is the possibility that plant or animal species may be affected in a detrimental way. This legislation importantly provides dual protection of the fish species as well as the continued use of water resources from the Colorado River. It ensures that we are not only being responsible stewards of our water resources, but also taxpayer dollars. It is important that funding for this program go directly toward recovery and mitigation and not wasteful overhead," said Bishop. The legislation also makes revisions to the Recovery Implementation Program to improve operations and accountability by: strengthening reporting requirements on the status of the ESA listed fish, determining projected dates for delisting, and providing information on how power revenues are being utilized for base funding. limiting funding transfer fees from historic levels of 22% to 3%, thereby reducing wasteful overhead. This is consistent with other Department of Interior programs. This includes limiting unnecessary travel of federal employees from their duty stations to Washington, D.C. for the sole purpose of lobbying congress in order to advocate for recovery programs. Resources spent on travel detract from funds that could be utilized in recovery and mitigation efforts. Presently, co-sponsors of this legislation include Representatives Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Jared Polis (D-CO), Scott Tipton (R-CO), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Jim Matheson (D-UT), and Diana DeGette (D-CO).
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON– The U.S. House of Representatives voted in favor of the conference report for the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). The measure passed with overwhelming bi-partisan support (372-52). A member of the conference committee, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) lauded the passage, noting that it will address critical transpiration needs and lead to the creation of thousands of jobs. "I was pleased that the conference committee worked to find common ground between the versions passed in each chamber. While it isn't perfect, the legislation importantly addresses our country's transportation needs and helps to create thousands of jobs," said Bishop. "I was also pleased that the controversial Land and Water Conservation Fund was left out of the final bill and that the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and Secure Rural Schools (SRS) programs received a one-year extension. Many states including Utah rely upon these programs for support of many essential programs, especially education." States with an overwhelming amount of federal land, such as Utah (68%), are deprived of property tax revenue that could otherwise be generated from the land if it was privately owned. Property tax is a key source of funding for essential state and local community services such as education, maintenance of roads and infrastructure, and first responders. Both PILT and SRS provide some compensation for the revenue shortfall. Congressman Bishop is helping lead efforts to find long-term solutions to the funding needs of public lands states, including ensuring the continued support from both PILT and SRS.
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced today that the conference committee for the transportation bill has agreed upon final legislation. The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21) will likely be voted on in the House tomorrow. Congressman Bishop served on the conference committee, which was charged with finding common ground between the House and Senate versions of the legislation. Congressman Bishop issued the following statement about the final report: "This bill addresses the critical transportation needs of this country and will lead to jobs for thousands of Americans. While this legislation isn't perfect, I'm pleased the House prevailed on many important provisions, including elements that will help streamline the process for approving and constructing transportation projects. It was also a big win that the Land and Water Conservation Fund was left out of this bill, ultimately receiving no funding. I am also glad that both the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and Secure Rural Schools (SRS) programs were extended for one more year. This extension will continue to help public lands states and communities that are deprived of property tax revenue as we continue to work toward finding long-term solutions to address their needs. "I hope that the Senate recognizes the beneficial outcome of this process and takes up other pro-growth and pro-jobs legislation already passed by the House that are currently pending in its chamber."
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON– Following the U.S. Supreme Court's decision that found the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to be constitutional under Congress' taxing power, Congressman Rob Bishop (Ut-01) issued the following statement: "I am disappointed by the U.S. Supreme Court's decision. I've voted to fully repeal ObamaCare and will do so again to stop this monumental shift in government control over our lives. "The Court's decision illustrates one of the most egregious aspects of ObamaCare, that it is a massive tax on the American people during one of the most challenging economic times in our nation's history. One of the primary healthcare concerns of families and small businesses is the cost of health care. Republicans in Congress have proposed hundreds of reforms that among other things will also lower costs. These reforms ensure that the American people, not Washington, make their own health care decisions. "A one size fits all approach works when you need one solution for one problem. With regards to healthcare, Americans want choices and options to address their unique and diverse needs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act tramples on the rights of Americans to tailor their healthcare coverage. States and the American people, not Washington bureaucrats, are best suited to address our country's healthcare needs. "While this is certainly not the decision we were hoping to hear, it does not mean this fight is over. This massive tax is the wrong direction for this country and every aspect of this law will continue to be reviewed, scrutinized, and reformed. Leaving the bill as it exists today is simply not an option." In a September 2009 interview with George Stephanopoulos, President Obama said with regards to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: "Nobody considers that a tax increase." -30-
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON–Today, the House of Representatives approved a legislative package of 14 bills, which included the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act, authored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01). The National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act addresses the U.S. Border Patrol's longstanding need to have greater access to some of the most highly trafficked areas within the border region, especially along the southern U.S.-Mexico border. "The Border Patrol's inability to routinely access the entire border region leaves us not only vulnerable to the trafficking of drugs but also potential terrorists and others who wish to harm our country. With the passage of this legislation the Border Patrol will finally have the access necessary to help us achieve a truly secure border--a sovereign nation should have nothing less," said Congressman Bishop. There are more than 20 million acres of federal land along the southern U.S. border. Within the 20 million acres are several different classifications of federal land that carry specific restrictions for use and access. As an example, wilderness areas do not permit wheeled or motorized access. Due to the various restrictions on access, the Border Patrol is limited in their ability to adequately patrol, monitor, deter, and apprehend drug traffickers and human smugglers. As a result, criminal drug organizations have capitalized on the Border Patrol's limited access, and have laid claim to select trails leading through public lands. These trails offer them virtually unmitigated access to transport drugs and humans into the United States. Specifically the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act: · Prevents the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture from impeding, prohibiting, or restricting the Department of Homeland Security's efforts to obtain operational control of the border. · Provides the Department of Homeland Security with immediate access to federal lands which the U.S. Border Patrol deems necessary to the fulfillment of their mission · Allows the U.S. Border Patrol to construct and maintain roads and place surveillance equipment in strategic areas that will help facilitate the detection and apprehension of criminals. · Allows the Department of Homeland Security to waive 16 specific measures that currently limit the U.S. Border Patrol's ability to secure the entire border region.
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON— An amendment offered by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) to modify the language of the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act passed the House. These changes will be applied to existing text of the bill, which is currently among those included in the 14-bill package to be voted on in the House later today. "This legislation is the right thing for this country and these changes will take an important bill and make it even stronger. At the end of the day, this matter is far too important to go unaddressed and shoring up these trafficking corridors will help close the gaps that are preventing us from having a truly secure border," said Bishop. Specifically the amendment: Clarifies that federal land management agencies may not prohibit border patrol efforts to "prevent all unlawful entries into the United States, including entries by terrorists, other unlawful aliens, instruments of terrorism, narcotics, and other contraband through the international land borders of the United States." Narrows the list of laws that may be waived by the U.S. Border Patrol from 36 to 16. The original 36 laws were the same laws waived by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to construct portions of the border fence. Specifically prohibits any additional access to private property. The bill is written with specific intent to eliminate the possibility of border patrol reducing public access to federal land, including: hunting, fishing, and off-highway vehicle (OHV) use. Adds a provision to ensure and protect tribal sovereignty, stating that nothing in the bill may supersede, replace, negate, or diminish treaties or agreements with Indian tribes. Existing practices of negotiation and cooperation between the border patrol and Indian tribes must continue.
06.18.2012	WASHINGTON– The U.S. House of Representatives today approved two bills supported by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) conveying federal land to the State of Utah. The first, S. 684, authorizes the conveyance of no more than two acres located within the Wasatch-Cache National Forest to the town of Alta, Utah. Having previously passed in the Senate, this measure will now go to the President's desk to be signed into law. The second bill, H.R. 4027, facilitates the exchange of approximately 20,000 acres of state-held mineral rights within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation for mineral rights on approximately 20,000 acres of federal land just outside the reservation in eastern Utah. This measure assists the Ute Tribe with a long-sought land exchange that will help preserve tribal cultural lands, provide new opportunities for potential energy development that would benefit the state school trust fund, and offer expanded oil and natural gas production in Utah's Uintah Basin. This bill will now head to the Senate for consideration. "Small land transfers of merely two-acres may seem insignificant to some but in a state consisting of more than 65% federal land, it represents a victory for the community of Alta. I was happy to help assist the town of Alta in this effort and am pleased that my colleagues in the House joined in support of this legislation," said Bishop. "I am also pleased that the House approved legislation to assist the Ute tribe with this long-sought land exchange, which helps preserve sensitive tribal cultural lands, while also providing new opportunities for energy development in the basin." -30-
06.18.2012	WASHINGTON–The U.S. Department of Interior announced today that the Bureau of Land Management has officially wrapped up a lengthy eight-year review process which culminated in the approval of more than 1200 new natural gas wells in the Uinta Basin. Gasco, the recipient of the leases, estimates that this will support 200 new jobs in the Basin. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to today's announcement: "As a region that is largely supported by jobs in the field of energy development, the Uinta Basin has been hit hard by this Administration. The cancellation of 77 leases three years ago had a devastating impact on jobs, families, and communities. While these new leases took far too long to be approved, amounting to what is the better part of a decade, I am grateful that the Administration recognized the importance of utilizing the abundant energy resources that exist within the Basin. While this seems like the result of election year politics, I'm pleased by today's announcement. In fact, maybe if we had a presidential election every year, we might actually get closer to true energy independence."
06.14.2012	WASHINGTON–Next week, the House of Representatives will consider the Conservation and Economic Growth Act, a package of 14 Natural Resources Committee bills. Among the bills included in the package is the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505], sponsored by National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01). Congressman Bishop will offer an amendment on the House floor to make final adjustments and improvements to the existing bill text. The amendment will: Clarify that federal land management agencies may not prohibit border patrol efforts to "prevent all unlawful entries into the United States, including entries by terrorists, other unlawful aliens, instruments of terrorism, narcotics, and other contraband through the international land borders of the United States." Narrow the list of laws that may be waived by the U.S. Border Patrol from 36 to 16. The original 36 laws were the same laws waived by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to construct portions of the border fence. Specifically prohibit any additional access to private property. The bill is written with specific intent to eliminate the possibility of border patrol reducing public access to federal land, including: hunting, fishing, and off-highway vehicle (OHV) use. Add a provision to ensure and protect tribal sovereignty, stating that nothing in the bill may supersede, replace, negate, or diminish treaties or agreements with Indian tribes. Existing practices of negotiation and cooperation between the border patrol and Indian tribes must continue. Restricted access on public lands The National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act indentifies 20.7 million acres of Department of Interior (DOI) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS) land as some of the most highly trafficked areas used by cartels to transport drugs and humans into the United States. Currently, the U.S. Border Patrol has limited access to certain parts of this region due to a host of restrictive federal land management policies. In some cases, Border Patrol agents may only enter certain areas by foot or on horseback, which, as Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano stated in a letter to Rep. Bishop, "can be inadvisable." Congressman Bishop's bill would enable the Border Patrol to waive certain restrictions when access is deemed necessary to the fulfillment of their mission. In a letter to Congressman Bishop, Secretary Napolitano outlined concerns over the Border Patrol's limited access: "The USBP, in accordance with the 2006 MOU, makes every reasonable effort to use the least impacting means of transportation within wilderness; however along the southwest border it can be detrimental to the most effective accomplishment of the mission. For example, it may be inadvisable for officer safety to wait for the arrival of horses for pursuit purposes, or to attempt to apprehend smuggling vehicles within wilderness with a less capable form of transportation." Damage to the environment The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality estimates that those entering the U.S. illegally leave behind close to 2,000 tons of trash every year in Arizona alone. "Cartels have figured out that Border Patrol agents are restricted from accessing certain areas. It's no secret that federal lands give them the strategic ability to evade detection and apprehension. The rationale associated with keeping the Border Patrol out of these areas is actually self defeating. Drug traffickers couldn't care less about environmental sensitivities, evidenced by the vandalism and environmental destruction they leave behind," said Congressman Bishop. "As Secretary Napolitano noted in her letter, the removal of these criminals from our public lands is a value to the environment as well as the mission of the land managers." On page 8 of Secretary Napolitano's letter, she states that, "Overall, the removal of cross-border violators from public lands is a value to the environment as well as to the mission of the land managers. The USBP believes that operations are generally functionally equivalent to mitigation." Violence against women The cartel operations not only bring drugs into the U.S., but also those looking to circumvent the legal immigration process. Many of the women who pay cartels for passage into the U.S. are abused along the way and raped on U.S. soil as final payment. Evidence of these brutal and violent acts can be found across federal land, with undergarments left hanging from trees by cartel operatives as trophies of their deeds. These are commonly referred to as "rape trees." "It is unacceptable that this type of violence against women is occurring on federal lands. By giving the Border Patrol greater access to the entire border region, we will cut off access to routes, which will ultimately help prevent further crimes from occurring," Bishop added. Misleading portrayal of the current situation Some federal lands located throughout the border region are so heavily trafficked by drug cartels that visitors are advised not to enter. Recently, a section of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument was opened to visitors, however they must be accompanied by an armed escort. "We have all heard the current Administration tout that the border is more secure than ever before. How they arrive at this conclusion remains a mystery given that, without access to the entire border region including all public lands, we can never truly be sure how many people manage to enter illegally and manage to completely evade detection. We know drug and human trafficking continues to occur on federal land, the trails leading in the upwards of 100 miles north of the border speak for themselves. The only way we are ever going to reach our goal of having a truly secure border is by allowing the Border Patrol to access and patrol the federal property where the incursions occur. This legislation is an important first step toward that goal," said Bishop.
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON–In an effort to ensure the U.S. Border Patrol focuses all funding resources toward its core mission, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) introduced the Border Patrol Operations Enhancement Amendment to amend the Homeland Security Appropriations Act for 2013 [H.R. 5855]. The amendment was voted on and passed by the House late Wednesday night with bipartisan support. It will be included in the final appropriations bill expected to be voted on in the House later today. click here to view Bishop's remarks on the amendment Specifically, the amendment redirects $3 million identified for "environmental mitigation" to U.S. Border Patrol Air and Marine Interdiction capabilities. On average, 49% of the U.S. Border Ptrol's Air and Marine fleet are more than 33 years old. This funding will help make needed improvements. "Cartel operations that smuggle drugs and humans into the U.S. through our federal lands are the leading cause of environmental damage. The damage is not coming from the U.S. Border Patrol," said Congressman Bishop. "The U.S. Border Patrol needs every available resource to fulfill its core mission to protect Americans and prevent dangerous drug traffickers and human smugglers from entering the U.S. Each dollar appropriated must be spent wisely. Supplementing other federal agency budgets is not part of this mission and these funds are better spent on securing our country." Currently, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2013 sets aside 3 million taxpayer dollars for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to pay the Department of Interior (DOI) and land management agencies for so-called environmental damage that results from security operations on federal lands. The FY2013 Homeland Security Appropriations Act appropriates a total of $46 billion for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON— Today, the family of President Dwight D. Eisenhower issued a statement opposing the latest design proposal for the future monument honoring the legacy of President Eisenhower. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves as chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands subcommittee issued the following statement regarding the family's concerns with the latest design: "I remain concerned that taxpayer dollars will be used to fund construction of a memorial to President and General Dwight D. Eisenhower despite the fact that his family has expressed concern and opposition to major design components. President Eisenhower was a true American hero who exemplified leadership in every possible way. I respect the Eisenhower family's request that the memorial reflect the concepts: simple, sustainable, and affordable. At present, it does not appear to meet those qualifications and until a consensus can be reached, I support the family's request to hold off on moving forward with the project. "Most memorials are not done without some element of controversy, however, it is imperative that in memorializing President Eisenhower, we do it right. We are not operating under severe time constraints and therefore there is no reason why we must hurry through the design phase. All necessary time can and should be taken to ensure the final product is perfect and adequately reflects the proud American legacy left by President Eisenhower."
05.23.2012	WASHINGTON– House National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today announced that he is "concerned and troubled" by the contents of an internal email exchange between National Park Service (NPS) officials. The emails, recently obtained by House Natural Resources Committee Members, contain alarming new evidence that the Administration lacked scientific justification to impose a 20-year ban on uranium development on one million acres of federal land in Arizona. An email from a NPS hydrologist reveals that a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) "goes to great length in an attempt to establish impacts to water resources from uranium mining" noting that, "It fails to do so…" "I am concerned and troubled by the Department of Interior's decision to proceed with the ban despite the fact their own experts cautioned that scientific evidence was lacking. It is now increasingly apparent that the decision was motivated by politics rather than science as the Administration would have us believe. We feared this was the case when the DOI announced its intentions in January, and it is unfortunate that it has proven to be true," said Congressman Bishop. "These emails illustrate that Secretary Salazar blatantly ignored the scientific analysis in order to advance the Administration's narrow-minded political agenda. The Administration is working hard to protect certain interests, but just not those of the American people." In an effort to further examine this matter, Congressman Bishop along with House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar requesting all additional documents pertaining to the DEIS, Final Environmental Impact Statement, and the Record of Decision, such as briefing papers, memoranda, notes, and emails. "These documents show the Administration's practice of placing politics before science. The withdrawal order is an affront to all those in Utah who depend on the jobs created by the Uranium industry in San Juan County, especially the Native American communities that account for more than 50% of the workers at the mill. The Blanding Mill is vitally important to our local economy and relies on receiving uranium from northern Arizona mines to stay in operation. Unemployment in this area is extremely high, especially on the Navajo reservation where it has been over 50%. The ban is not only hindering our nation's ability to produce domestic uranium, but is also having a negative impact on job creation at a time when we need it most," said San Juan County, Utah Commissioner Phil Lyman "To see these National Park Service documents re-enforce the contention we have made from the beginning, namely that the science on the ground shows no adverse impact on the Colorado River drainage outside of or through the Park, is heartening. What is not heartening is that the Administration completely ignored their own scientific advisors and used the Grand Canyon as a political foil. The people I represent in Mohave County want the jobs those uranium mines will bring. The fact that career scientists inside the agencies confirm that mining is safe and does not harm the Park or the watershed will make the people of Mohave county and southern Utah furious," said Mohave County, Arizona Supervisor Buster D. Johnson. Excerpts from the emails: "My personal and professional opinion is that the potential impacts stated in the DEIS as[sic] grossly overestimated and even then they are minor to negligible." "The DEIS goes to great lengths in an attempt to establish impacts to water resources from uranium mining. It fails to do so, but instead creates enough confusion and obfuscation of hydrogeologic principles to create the illusion that there could be adverse impacts if uranium mining occurred." "There exists no information we could find that would contradict his conclusion, nor any hypotheses suggested as to how contamination of park waters might physically occur." "This is obviously a touchy case where the hard science doesn't strongly support a policy position. Probably the best way to ‘finesse' this would be fall back on the ‘precautionary principle' and take the position that in absence of even more complete certainty that there is no connection between uranium mines and regional ground water, we need to be cautions[sic]?? Background: The uranium withdrawn from production represents 40 percent of our nation's domestic uranium resources and the deposits contain the highest-grade existing in the United States. According to a report conducted by the American Clean Energy Resources Trust, a ban on mining in this region could impact as many as 1,000 jobs and more than $29 million in economic revenue. On January 9, 2012 the DOI announced that it would impose a 20-year ban on uranium development on approximately one million acres of federal land in northern Arizona. The decision disregarded a negotiated compromise between the mining industry and environmental groups, which affirmed the compatibility of mining with conservation interests in areas not locked away by the Wilderness Act. The historic agreement was partially codified in the Arizona Wilderness Act of 1984.
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON– Each year, the U.S. House of Representatives passes legislation to authorize annual funding for U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) programs. This legislation is known as the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Today, the House passed the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2013. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the legislation. The legislation includes provisions that impact bases and military installations in Utah, including the Ogden Air Logistics Center (ALC). With President Obama singling out the DoD for massive cuts in spending, there is growing pressure from private industry to reduce maintenance workloads traditionally done at military depots, such as Ogden Air Logistics Center. To ensure that the Ogden ALC continues to serve as one of the primary and premier maintenance depots in this country, Congressman Bishop included an amendment that codifies the ongoing role of ALCs with regards to support, maintenance, repair, and refurbishment of equipment for the warfighter, essential weapons systems, and software. Industrial depot capabilities provide effective and efficient maintenance services and ensure military readiness at all times. "A collaborative approach must be taken as we examine the most effective and efficient maintenance of our military aircraft and other important defense capabilities. It is my goal to demonstrate that it is far more beneficial to work jointly by partnering with the depots than to shift contracts to the private sector without considering the impact that such decisions would have on military readiness. History has shown that utilizing both industry and government depots can often be the best and most efficient scenario with regards to workload and responsible use of taxpayer dollars. I will be working with House and Senate members and their staff to ensure that ALC interests are upheld throughout the legislative process," said Congressman Bishop. In addition to the amendment offered by Congressman Bishop, the NDAA for FY 2013 includes other provisions important to the state of Utah and its military installations, including: Section 1077 - Restrictions on Use of Non-Disclosure Agreements: Congressman Bishop assisted in drafting components of this section of the bill in order to place restrictions on the DoD's use of non-disclosure agreements for DoD officers and employees. The language ensures that non-disclosure agreements are used only in necessary circumstances and not abused. "Under former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the practice of requiring DoD officers and employees to routinely sign non-disclosure agreements proliferated beyond reason and became a mechanism by which the Administration would withhold certain vital information from staff and Members of Congress. While this may have enabled Secretary Gates to unilaterally implement programs with minimal congressional oversight, the negative effect of non-disclosures has been harmful to our open system of government and the relationship between Congress and the executive branch. Passage of Section 1077 will restore a common–sense balance to the use of this practice," said Bishop. Section 321 - Multi Trades Demonstration Project - This section was included at the request of Congressman Bishop. Specifically, it reauthorizes a pilot program at military depots that allows workers to employ their technical skills beyond their specifically assigned platform. "This ability for multi–trades workers is a win–win for the taxpayer and the depots. It allows highly trained individuals to employ their skills to benefit more than one production line, avoiding the need to hire and train additional workers. The end result is a more efficient and capable workforce," said Bishop. Section 2713 –BRAC Prohibition– This section outlines a prohibition on DoD planning for future rounds of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). The current Administration requested that Congress include in its budget two additional rounds of BRAC, beginning in 2013. This provision states that none of the funds may be used to plan or implement future BRACs at the present time. "Much uncertainty remains with regards to the needs of future force structure and it is presently difficult to determine what base infrastructure will be necessary beyond 2013. BRACs are not cheap and can cost billions of taxpayer dollars up front. With a current debt of $16 trillion it is unwise and imprudent to conduct a BRAC right now. BRAC is not a panacea for solving defense budget woes. Once defense installations are closed, they're lost forever and their capacity would be costly to reconstitute should it be realized that mistakes were made from hasty BRAC decisions," said Bishop. Military Construction – The following were included in the military construction (MILCON) component of the bill: Funding for new infrastructure to support the F-35 program at Hill Air Force Base (AFB): a modular storage magazine, an F-35 training simulator building, and a new F-35 hangar. Funding to support the Regional Training Institute, Phase 2 project, and a Bachelor Enlisted Quarters (BEQ) facility at Camp Williams (Utah National Guard). Funding to support construction of Intelligence Community Comprehensive National Cyber Security Initiative (IC CNCI) Data Center at Camp Williams. Two amendments were offered to the legislation that sought to clarify language regarding the rights of U.S. citizens and detention of those wishing to do harm to the United States and our armed forces. The first amendment was introduced by Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) and the second by Adam Smith (D-WA) and Justin Amash (R-MI). Congressman Bishop voted in support of both amendments.
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON– The House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Federal Workforce held a hearing this week to review the Hatch Act and consider options for reform. Former Ogden, Utah Police Chief and State Senator Jon Greiner appeared on the panel to deliver testimony about his own personal experience resulting from the Hatch Act. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), whose congressional district includes Ogden, released the following statement: "I support the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's efforts to consider needed changes to the Hatch Act of 1939. It is an outdated federal law that is negatively impacting too many well-intentioned individuals," said Congressman Bishop. "I am grateful that Chief Greiner took time to share his story on how the Hatch Act cost him his job and affected his service in the Utah Legislature. Jon's story has always been a compelling argument for reform of this law." Background -The Hatch Act, signed into law in 1939, restricts political activity of executive branch employees, District of Columbia government employees, and certain state and local employees who work in connection with federally funded programs. -Mr. Greiner was fired by Ogden City on December 28, 2011 after the Federal Merit Systems Protection Board ruled he violated the Hatch Act. -Mr. Greiner's violation came when he signed a quarterly report for a federal grant to upgrade the police dispatch system. Of note, the grant funded a dispatch system for Weber County, not the Ogden City Police Department. -Not only was Mr. Greiner fired, but his violation prohibits him from working in certain positions in Utah law enforcement for 18 months.
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON– Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to bring greater awareness to onerous federal fines levied against schools, including two so far in Utah, which may have unknowingly been in conflict with federal nutrition rules. Schools in Box Elder and Davis Counties were fined $19,000 and $16,000 respectively. Click here to view remarks Excerpts of Bishop's remarks: "Despite advice to the contrary, our Constitution establishes a government with two sovereigns: the nation and the individual states. They worried about that in Philadelphia. In fact, James Wilson wondered if this system would be like two meteors on a collision course, the collision of which would be catastrophic. Or if this system would be like the solar system, where the planets stayed in their sphere and course and did not interfere with one another. That latter vision we call federalism. It is restated in the 10th Amendment where each level of government had a specific and distinct responsibility. When the states were interfering with the federal government, it produced historical catastrophic consequences. But also when the federal government interferes with the role of states, the consequences will range from being catastrophic to just plain silly." "In 2010, this congress passed the Healthy and Hunger-free Kids Act. We were wrong to pass it for five reasons. Number one, it was a Senate bill. That should have been our first tipoff. Number two, it was opposed by the National Governor's Association. Three, it was opposed by the school boards association. Four, it violated the Constitution. Finally, number five, we created a one-size-fits-all federal program, not defined by us." "Two schools in my district have now been hit by those standards. I care about those schools because from one I graduated a long, long time ago. And the other, I taught for 23 years. They were hit with a $16,000 and $19,000 fine respectively. What was the heinous crime for which these fines were levied against the funds that go to help the kids in these schools? During the lunch hour their vending machines were plugged in." "It was wrong for congress to invade the role of states. It was wrong to punish kids for these silly reasons. It is wrong to violate federalism. If a community, school, and their PTA. wanted to create the standards themselves, fine. It is wrong for this body to think that every issue has to be decided here in this room and it is wrong for us to forget that the 10th amendment has a purpose. It is there for a reason and should be respected."
05.15.2012	WASHINGTON– Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, responded to comments made today by U.S. Department of Interior Ken Salazar that the DOI "want[s] companies to develop the tens of millions of acres they've already leased but have left sitting idle…". "Secretary Salazar's is basically telling energy companies to run a marathon with a bus strapped to their back. Maybe if the Secretary would reduce rather than add to the redundant bureaucratic red tape and make necessary policy changes that encourage rather than discourage production, companies would be able to development the resources within the leases. Let's be serious, these comments are smoke and mirrors attempts to appear as though the Administration supports energy production on federal lands. Their thinly veiled attempts to curb specific forms of domestic energy production over the past three years speak for themselves," said Congressman Bishop. This graphic from the American Petroleum Institute (API) illustrates the lengthy process required to develop leases. According to the Institute for Energy Research (IER), in 2011 oil production on federal lands declined from 2010 levels by 11 percent and natural gas production on federal lands declined by 6 percent. However, there was a 14 percent increase for oil production on private and state lands and a 12 percent increase for natural gas production on private and state lands. Natural gas production on federal lands in FY2011 declined by 27 percent from its FY2009 level, when it peaked at 6.82 trillion cubic feet, while natural gas production on state and private lands increased 28 percent during that same period of time. -30- ****************************************************** Date: May 15, 2012 Contact: Adam Fetcher (DOI) 202-208-6416 DOI Releases Update on Unused Oil and Gas LeasesReview shows that nearly two-thirds of acreage leased by industry lies idle WASHINGTON – As the Obama administration continues to make millions of acres available to for oil and gas development, a report released today by the Department of the Interior shows that more than two thirds of federal offshore acreage leased by industry and more than half of federal onshore leased acreage in the lower 48 states remains idle – neither producing nor under active exploration or development by companies who hold those leases. "As part of the Obama administration's all of the above energy strategy, we continue to make millions of acres of public lands available for safe and responsible domestic energy production on public lands and in federal waters," said Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. "We continue to offer new areas onshore and offshore for leasing, as we have over the last three years, and we also want companies to develop the tens of millions of acres they've already leased but have left sitting idle in order to further reduce our reliance on foreign oil as quickly as possible." According to the report, more than 70 percent of the tens of millions of offshore acres currently under lease are inactive, neither producing nor currently subject to approved or pending exploration or development plans. Out of nearly 36 million acres leased offshore, only about 10 million acres are active – leaving nearly 72 percent of the offshore leased area idle. In the lower 48 states, an additional 20.8 million acres, or 56 percent of onshore leased acres, remain idle. Furthermore, there are approximately 7,000 approved permits for drilling on federal and Indian lands that have not yet been drilled by companies. "These lands and waters belong to the American people, and they expect those energy supplies to be developed in a timely and responsible manner and with a fair return to taxpayers," said Secretary Salazar. "We will continue to encourage companies to diligently bring production online quickly and safely on public lands already under lease." The report is available here. Consistent with the findings of last year's report and the Administration's Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future, DOI has taken administrative steps to reform the terms of offshore oil and gas leases to include a range of incentives that encourage prompt development and ensure a fair return to taxpayers. These measures to incentivize prompt exploration and development include escalating rental rates and tiered durational terms with relatively short base periods followed by additional time under the same lease if the operator drills a well during the initial period. Beginning with the most recent offshore lease sale, DOI increased the minimum bid in deepwater to $100 per acre, up from only $37.50, to ensure that taxpayers receive fair market value for offshore resources and to provide leaseholders with additional impetus to invest in leases that they are more likely to develop. Analysis of the last 15 years of lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico showed that deepwater leases that received high bids of less than $100 per acre, adjusted for energy prices at time of each sale, experienced virtually no exploration and development drilling. Onshore on public lands, reforms have focused on new leasing policies that establish a more orderly, open, and environmentally sound process for efficient development of oil and gas resources on public lands. Today's report came as Interior's Bureau of Land Management (BLM) today issues a call for nominations and comments on available tracts to be considered for its scheduled November 2012 oil and gas lease sale in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPR-A) – the second sale since President Obama directed the Department of the Interior on May 14, 2011, to conduct annual oil and gas lease sales in the NPR-A. The BLM offered 3 million acres in the 2011 sale. In 2011, American oil production reached the highest level in nearly a decade and natural gas production reached an all-time high, and America's dependence on foreign oil has gone down every single year since President Obama took office. Thanks to booming U.S. oil and gas production, more efficient cars and trucks, and a world-class refining sector that last year was a net exporter for the first time in 60 years, the United States has cut net imports by ten percent – or a million barrels a day – in the last year alone. The Obama administration also continues to provide significant opportunities to drill on public lands and waters. According to the Energy Information Administration, total federal oil production (offshore and onshore) has increased by 13 percent during the first three years of the Obama administration combined, compared with the last three years of the previous administration. According to independent analysis, the total number of active rigs operating on the U.S. outer continental shelf was higher in January 2012 than any time since May 2010.
05.08.2012	WASHINGTON– House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) praised the Department of Interior for approving 3600 new natural gas wells in Uintah County, Utah. "Natural gas is an important part of our nation's diverse energy portfolio, providing millions of Americans with clean, safe, affordable energy. At a time when energy prices remain volatile and Americans are struggling to make ends meet, it is nonsensical to ignore the abundant opportunities for responsible energy development that exist in Utah. This is good news for Utah and undoubtedly provides a glimmer of hope that all is not lost with this Administration's policies on public land use. However, more can and should be done. As a starter, the Administration should halt the implementation of onerous new hydraulic fracturing regulations that will impede development on all new leases, including those approved today by Secretary Salazar. Regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing has been conducted successfully by states for several decades and there is little or no evidence to suggest that the federal government can do it better. Utah is still working to regain lost ground from the cancellation of 77 leases, and these new leases will be an important part of those recovery efforts with regards to jobs and revenue upon which the state and many communities rely." Last week, the DOI established new regulations and mandates regarding the use of hydraulic fracturing during the extraction of petroleum and natural gas. The new regulations will apply to all new leases on federal lands.
05.04.2012	WASHINGTON–House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following response to the Department of Interior's release of new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracking on public lands: "The Administration's efforts to snuff out many forms of domestically produced energy have been thinly veiled at best. The EPA Administrator who was captured on tape saying that the goal was to "crucify" oil and gas companies perfectly illustrates the Administration's position on domestic energy production. In just the last month we have seen new regulations placed on the production of clean coal and natural gas. Both of which provide a supply of clean, affordable energy for this country. Ironically, the President recently touted a rise in production of energy resources, and subsequently lower energy costs, which can largely be attributed to our ability to access and produce natural gas through hydraulic fracking. Not only that, but industry experts note that increases in production are occurring on state and private lands, not public lands, where production is virtually idle thanks to countless stifling anti-energy regulations and mandates. The new regulations released today will discourage future production of the abundant energy resources located on our public lands. I suppose the current Administration and their special interest group allies would consider that a ‘win'. However, like many Americans, I do not. We can be responsible stewards of our natural resources while also encouraging and supporting clean safe energy production on our public lands. The two are not mutually exclusive," said Bishop. The proposed new regulations are available here.-30-
04.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Crystal Feldman, Spencer Pederson, or Jill Strait (202-226-9019) Friday, April 27, 2012 WASHINGTON– Today, the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands held a joint legislative and oversight hearing on H.R. 4094, the "Preserving Access to Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area Act," and, "Access Denied: Turning Away Visitors to National Parks." "Although today we focused on two examples, Biscayne National Park in Florida and Cape Hatteras in North Carolina, these overly restrictive policies show signs of developing into a nation-wide problem. This is a continuation of anti-visitation policies driven by the Obama Administration that will undercut the tourism industry, hurt local businesses, and destroy jobs," said Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01). The National Park Service has severely limited access to Cape Hatteras National Recreational Area through the implementation of a restrictive management plan and environmental lawsuits from activist environmental groups. H.R. 4094, sponsored by Rep. Walter Jones, would overturn a final rule implemented by the National Park Service as well as a 2008 U.S. Court Consent Decree by reinstituting the Park Service's 2007 Interim Management Strategy to govern visitor access and species protection at Cape Hatteras. The legislation will restore visitor's access to Cape Hatteras while also ensuring the protection of local wildlife and its habitat. Re-opening this Congressionally designated "recreation area" will stimulate the Island's recreation-dependent economy and foster job creation. "This bill is about jobs and taxpayers' right to access the recreational areas they own. H.R. 4094 will restore balance and common sense Park Service management in Cape Hatteras National Recreational Area. It will reverse the significant job loss and economic decline that Hatteras Island has experienced since access was cut off to many of the most popular areas of the seashore," said Rep. Walter B. Jones (NC-03). The National Park Service is pushing a new management plan at Biscayne National Park that will eliminate access to over 10,000 acres of sport fishing waters and dissuade visitation to other areas of the park despite strong objections from the surrounding community and opposition by the world renowned scientists of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Fishing, boating, diving and other recreational activities within the Park drive the local economy and support hundreds of jobs. Prohibiting these activities and restricting Park access will negatively impact the local economy, dissuade tourism and cause job loss. "Biscayne National Park is part of the heritage of our community and is of great significance to many South Florida families. My intent is to help preserve the unique culture surrounding South Florida's water-centered way of life, while also protecting our environment and maintaining access," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18). "No one cares more about Biscayne National Park than Floridians and those who utilize the park. Restricting access should be a last resort after all other alternatives have been exhausted. It is my hope that we can all work together on a plan that both protects the Park and remains accessible for the public to enjoy," said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21).
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-1) and Jason Chaffetz (UT-3) today met with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden to ensure NASA continues to implement the parameters of the Space Launch System (SLS), NASA's new rocket, in accordance with the 2010 NASA Authorization Act. The two initial flight tests of the SLS, which will use solid rocket motors, are scheduled to begin in 2017. The solid rocket motors that will propel the SLS will be manufactured in Northern Utah.HATCH: "I appreciate Administrator Bolden briefing us on the status of NASA's next rocket. We had a great meeting today and Administrator Bolden discussed the objectives of the mission and the test flights that are slated to begin in 2017. I'll continue to keep in close contact with Administrator Bolden to ensure this process continues to move forward."LEE: "I am pleased we were able to meet with Administrator Bolden and his team to discuss new technologies and how they might assist the Space Launch System. Utah has a unique interest in seeing the project go forward and today's discussion was a positive step in that direction."BISHOP: ""It is troubling to see what has become of NASA since the President has been in office and even more concerning to learn of the implications on our missile defense capabilities. I recognize that Administrator Bolden has been tasked with a difficult mission in implementing many of the Administration's space policies. I always appreciate his willingness to sit down with us to take questions and hear our concerns regarding the future of solid rocket motors. I was pleased to hear his confirmation that we remain on schedule for 2017. Ensuring that delays are not occurring with the progression of the Space Launch System is a priority." CHAFFETZ: "America has a competitive edge in space and we need to keep that competitive edge. I appreciate the dialogue with Administrator Bolden this morning and hope to continue working closely together to ensure America retains this advantage."
04.25.2012	At the recent Supreme Court oral arguments on Obamacare's mandated Medicaid expansion, some Justices questioned whether the mandated Medicaid expansion provides states any real options in managing their Medicaid programs. Justice Kennedy stated "There's no realistic choice. There's no real choice." He's right. Obamacare's Medicaid expansion (and its entire federal health care scheme) grabs power away from the states and seeks to enlist them as federal bureaucratic agencies—not governing partners in the federalism design created under the Constitution and emphasized through the Tenth Amendment. H.R. 4160, introduced by Reps. Todd Rokita, Tim Huelskamp, Paul Broun, M.D., and Chairman Jim Jordan, respects federalism by empowering states to design health care programs without requiring states to navigate through Washington's maze of bureaucratic red tape. The bill streamlines federal Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) funding into one block grant to the states, giving them maximum flexibility to better address the unique health care needs of their most vulnerable citizens. Each state is free to determine eligibility, benefits, and provider reimbursement rates. Without cutting a penny from current Medicaid and CHIP funding, H.R. 4160 prevents the federal government from borrowing and spending $2.0 trillion we do not have. Lastly, H.R. 4160 repeals Obamacare and its costly mandates to help keep state health care programs affordable and focused on the truly needy.
04.20.2012	Upon learning of President Obama's designation of a nearly 15,000 acre national monument located within Fort Ord, a former military base in California, National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop issued the following statement: "The Antiquities Act has long served as a mechanism for the President to circumvent Congress in order to make new land designations. When there is buy-in from the state and surrounding communities, new national monuments designations can be a good thing, but throughout history and in different Administrations we have seen the Antiquities Act misused as a tool to advance special interest agendas. President Clintons' disingenuous designation of the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument, which locked up one of the nation's largest known coal reserves, is just one example. "If national monuments are welcomed additions to the state and surrounding communities then they should have no problem passing in congress on their own merits. There must be greater oversight in this process to ensure that the Antiquities Act is not being misused as a tool to unilaterally lock up lands from multiple use without the state's consent. I remain very concerned that without greater congressional oversight, the Antiquities Act will continue to enable the President to make new land designations without total transparency and public input. Therefore, I continue to support efforts in the House and Senate to advance policies aimed at bringing oversight to the national monument designation process. On Tuesday, the House passed an amendment with bipartisan support that would require approval by state-level elected officials before national monument restrictions are implemented," said Congressman Bishop. Fort Ord is a former Army base located on Monterey Bay, California. It opened in 1917 and was closed in 1994 as part of a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. During a visit to Fort Ord on January 13, 2012 U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar announced that he was proposing that President Obama utilize the Antiquities Act to designate part of the former base as a new national monument.
04.17.2012	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered H.R. 4089, the Sportsmen's Heritage Act of 2012. The legislation helps protect hunting, fishing and recreational shooting on our nation's public lands from special interest groups looking to impose new restrictions aimed at limiting such activities. "This legislation importantly preserves the rights of hunters, fishers and recreational shooters and ensures that they continue to have the opportunity to access our nation's public lands. Radical special interest groups have been working feverishly to impose new restrictions that limit a host of recreational activities on public lands. They have co-opted the Environmental Protection Agency as their vehicle to implement these wrongheaded policies, making legislation such as the Sportsmen's Heritage Act necessary to thwart their short-sided efforts. I am pleased that this bill passed in the House and hope that common sense prevails and the Senate considers this legislation as well. While they're at it, I hope they will also consider taking up the budget, but I'm certainly not going to hold my breath," said Congressman Bishop. During debate on the floor of the House over the measure, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) delivered remarks in support of the legislation. Congressman Bishop is a member of both the powerful House Rules Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee where he currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. Specifically, the Sportsmen's Heritage Act requires federal public land management officials to use their authority to facilitate access to federal lands and waters for fishing, sport hunting, and recreational shooting. Under the legislation, exceptions to limit access can be made for reasons of national security, public safety, or resource conservation. In addition, access could be limited because of any federal statutes that specifically preclude these uses on federal land or by any discretionary limitations on recreational fishing, hunting, and shooting determined to be "necessary and reasonable." In summary, H.R. 4089 will: • require hunting, recreational shooting, and fishing to be recognized activities on all Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management lands • protect recreational shooting on National Monuments under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management • amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act to allow hunters who legally harvested polar bears in Canada prior to its listing under the Endangered Species Act to purchase permits in order to transport their trophies into the U.S. • clarify that the Environmental Protection Agency does not have the jurisdiction to regulate traditional ammunition with lead components and lead fishing tackle • ensure that no new national monuments could be established unilaterally by the President through executive fiat unless the states offer their full support In addition to the Congressional Sportsmen's' foundation, a coalition of 38 sportsmen's organizations has expressed their support for the Sportsmen's Heritage Act.
03.29.2012	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, appeared on Fox Business with Neil Cavuto to discuss the role of public lands in energy production. During the interview, Bishop addressed the need for improved access to our nation's public lands, their role in our nation's ability to become more energy independent, and efforts currently underway to give Utah greater power over federally managed lands within the state's border.
03.27.2012	Today, the current Administration launched its latest assault on the U.S. energy industry. Specifically, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued new regulatory rules governing greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Upon learning of the new mandates, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands subcommittee, issued the following statement: "The Administration chose to impose this new regulatory mandate by executive fiat because it knows that it would be very unlikely that Congress, on behalf of the American people, would support such an egregious overstep of federal control. This policy is nothing more than President Obama's latest effort to win favor with his anti-coal special interest group allies. "Picking winners and losers does a grave disservice to consumers and producers in this country. Costs go up and the number of jobs goes down, which seems to be indicative of far too many policies championed by the President and his cabinet. As a result of the EPA's new policy, the exorbitant costs required to implement these new rules and mandates will be passed on to consumers who are already paying their fair share when it comes to energy bills. "As things stand in Utah, our rural electric industry is already doing what it can to keep prices affordable while working to comply with a host of previous mandates handed down by the Administration. These new rules will only make matters worse and will ultimately force companies to increase their costs to cover the financial burden imposed by the Administration's new rules and regulations. While the increase costs may not have a huge impact on some households, the majority of Americans in this country are already stretching each dollar as far as it will go."
03.26.2012	U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) today welcomed the Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Donley, to Hill Air Force Base. During the visit, the members of Utah's congressional delegation toured the base with the Secretary and showcased Hill's industrial, operational and training capabilities. The Delegation has long stressed that Hill is central to America's defense, and impressed that upon the Secretary during his visit to Hill today. In addition to the delegation and top leaders at the base, the Secretary met with service members and their families as well as local leaders. "The Secretary's visit today was an opportunity to showcase Hill's efficiency and its central role to our nation's defense," Hatch said. "The delegation has worked very well together to ensure that the hard-working men and women at Hill have the tools they need to remain one of the most efficient and effective bases in the our military. Today was a great day for northern Utah, and I look forward to continuing to work with the delegation and Secretary Donley to show why Hill is second to none and must remain a central figure in keeping America safe." "The time to fight for the mission of Hill Air Force Base is now," said Lee. "If we wait until we face another round of BRAC, it may be too late to preserve the vital service the base provides to Utah and the country. I am encouraged by Secretary Donley's visit and believe Hill AFB continues to be one of the military's most well-run installations." "I appreciate Secretary Donley visiting hill AFB today," Bishop said. "It is often a challenge to bridge the more than 2000 mile divide between Utah and Washington, D.C., which is why visits such as today's are inherently important not only to Utah but to the future of our national defense capabilities. The visit allowed the Secretary to see first-hand the hard working men and women that support the many dynamic components of Hill AFB, which contribute to its role as one of the preeminent training, operational, and industrial military facilities in this country."
03.22.2012	M E D I A A D V I S O R Y Tomorrow, Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert will sign a bill [H.B. 148] into law demanding that the federal government transfer federal lands located within the state of Utah over to the state by December 31, 2014. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), who serves as Chairman of the U.S. House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, is scheduled to participate in the signing ceremony. As a state legislator and as a member of Congress, Bishop has been a stalwart supporter of returning control of federal lands back to the states. "This bill is an important and essential component of our united efforts to return control of our land back to the state of Utah. Education funding in Utah, like many other western states, has disproportionately suffered due the abundant presence of federal land within our state's borders. Utah's children deserve to have educational opportunities afforded to those who come from states with few federal lands. The current situation is not what was intended to become of the West, yet greedy Washington bureaucrats have decided that hording land in the federal estate is more important than education. Like most Utahns, I disagree. I'm pleased to join in support of the signing of this important legislation," said Congressman Rob Bishop. WHO: Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert, Senators Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee, Rep. Rob Bishop, Utah State Representatives Ken Ivory and Roger Barrus WHAT: Bill signing ceremony for H.B. 148 and brief remarks from participantsWHERE: Gold Room Utah State Capitol DATE: Tomorrow, Friday, March 23, 2012 TIME: 2:30 p.m. MDT *NOTE: The bill specifically exempts: Private lands State or county lands and school and state trust lands National Parks, National Monuments and National Historic Sites managed by the National Parks Service, and congressionally designated wilderness areas (this includes 33 areas). Military or real property owned by the United States Lands and water rights belonging to Indian Tribes
03.21.2012	U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) met today with senior Defense Department officials to discuss the Defense Department's plans to maintain our country's intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) solid rocket motor industrial base. Present at today's meeting was Madelyn Creedon, Assistant Secretary for Global Strategic Affairs; Brett Lambert, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing and Industrial Policy; and Major General William Chambers, Air Force Assistant Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration. Prior to this year, the production of ICBM solid rocket motors was scheduled to end. In last year's National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Hatch included an amendment requiring the Defense Department to author a report on how the Department will maintain ICBM solid rocket motor production in the future. The amendment included in FY2012 NDAA is part of the ongoing efforts undertaken by both Rep. Bishop and Hatch to encourage the Obama Administration to examine the consequences of terminating the production of large-scale solid rocket motors. Previously, Rep. Bishop and Senator Hatch worked together to include legislation in past Defense Authorization Acts which specifically required the Secretary of Defense to review and establish a plan to sustain the solid rocket motor industrial base. Hatch requested today's meeting so that the Utah Congressional Delegation could be updated on the recent report's progress. "Solid rocket motors are critical to maintaining our nation's nuclear triad, and I appreciate these top officials coming in to discuss the Department's plans," Hatch said. "ICBM solid rocket motors have never lasted as long as the Defense Department is now requiring, so we'll need to have a manufacturing plan to ensure the longevity of our ICBM fleet. We had a productive discussion today and I look forward to receiving a more comprehensive report soon on the Department's plan to maintain these critical national security components." "The long-term viability of the large solid rocket motor industry has long been one of my key priorities in Congress and I have worked extensively on this issue with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee. ICBM's are an important component of our national defense capabilities and it is important that the current Administration recognize that we must have a long-term plan to maintain our fleet. Today's meeting was productive, and I am cautiously optimistic that the Defense Department will make the necessary progress to ensure the long-term viability of our ICBMs. At the end of the day, I have confidence that Defense officials will recognize this program is exceptionally important to our nation's security," said Bishop. # # #
03.08.2012	Today, the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands held a legislative hearing on four bills. At the hearing, Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) took the opportunity to question Bureau of Land Management Deputy Director Michael Pool about the recent discovery of credit card abuse and possible time-card fraud by Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management (BLM) employees in the West. "Deputy Director Pool, it has come to my attention that there are clear signs of abuse, fraud, and frankly a failure of leadership in certain areas of BLM. The Committee has been made aware, through presumably one of your own emails that credit card abuse at BLM is ‘culturally rampant' and that there is an overall ‘lack of managerial and supervisory support' to prevent this type of fraud. In addition, there are allegations of ‘fire time miscoding' which I presume deals with defrauding the Government by submitting false claims for number of hours worked," said Chairman Bishop. "However, what is possibly the most disturbing is the allegation that many of these fraudulent activities were approved by management. Again, in your own email you acknowledge this deeply concerning issue, stating that ‘[t]he incidents . . . to date are clearly reflective of a failure in leadership and managerial/supervisory oversight.' As I indicated yesterday, I intend to get to the bottom of this and thought that my inquiry should start with you today." Deputy Director Pool asserted that the Agency first became aware of the abuse in 2010 and has since initiated an agency-wide law enforcement investigation into the matter that remains ongoing. To date, at least two BLM employees have plead guilty to theft and embezzlement in federal court. Pool stated that there have been reports of widespread abuses in Utah and Idaho, as well as suspicions of similar cases in other states. Background: In February, BLM Deputy Director Michael Pool sent a letter to several state directors of BLM offices throughout the West urging immediate disciplinary action against employees that misuse BLM funds and exploit the system. Such abuses that have been reported include the use of government issued credit cards for personal expenditures and the falsifying of hours related to fire suppression activities. To read more on this issue, click here. ## http://naturalresources.house.gov/ Facebook | YouTube | Twitter
02.16.2012	Tomorrow marks three years since President Obama signed the unpopular trillion-dollar economic "stimulus" bill into law. Congressman Rob Bishop (Ut-01), who vehemently opposed the measure, issued the following statement in advance of the 3rd anniversary of its signing: "The last three years have shown the President's stimulus package to be a colossal failure that gambled away a trillion dollars of taxpayer money. It is totally unacceptable that future generations will be stuck paying for the President's gross misjudgment. "History tells us that taxing, borrowing and spending more doesn't lead to economic prosperity. In fact, as today's economy indicates, it does the exact opposite. It seemed at the time, and even more so today, that the President was so blinded by his own agenda he did not foresee the collateral damage that could come from such a serious gamble. It's just too bad that he wasn't gambling with his own money versus the future of this country. "This week the President introduced a budget proposal that is full of new taxes, increased spending for redundant and unnecessary programs, and a host of regulations and mandates that hinder job creation and energy development. This is the exact opposite of the direction we should be taking this country. Incentivizing small businesses and easing the regulatory burdens that hinder economic growth are where our policies should be focused, but instead we've got a budget proposal that does the exact opposite. "February 17th will serve as a reminder of where we have been the last three years, where we need to go in the future, and how we get there as a country. I look forward to being part of that which leads this country in a new and different direction than the one taken by President Obama."
02.16.2012	Today during the House Natural Resources Committee hearing to review and consider legislation that would address revenue shortfalls in public lands states and restrictions placed on access to water in California's Central Valley, Congressman Bishop spoke about the impact that federal lands have on communities, and especially public education. Specifically, the committee markup considered the following two bills: 1) H.R. 4019: Press Release - Secure Rural Schools (SRS) Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) legislation introduced to create jobs, support rural counties and restore active forest management 2) H.R. 1837: Press Release - Legislation to end California's man-made drought and restore water supplies and jobs click here to watch Excerpts of Bishop's remarks: "The fact that we have the programs of PILT and SRS is a monument to the paternalist policies of the federal govt. The bottom line is that these programs simply have failed. Our forests are not healthier under these programs. Our communities are not healthier under these programs." "The concept that the federal government is a better steward of the land than states or local governments would be has three decades of evidence on why that is a failed concept. The Clinton Administration, the Obama Administration and even the Bush Administration have failed our local communities in many of their efforts. There has been no progress in a collaborative approach. What we desperately need in the West is simply a paradigm shift. "I understand what they're talking about as far as rural interests for students/kids. I taught public school for 28 years… "Those of us that live in public lands states, the 12 western states that are public lands states with BLM land… the rest of you just don't have it, our problem is that we cannot generate the revenue to fund our education system. Those 12 states have the slowest growth in education funding of any place in the nation. Those 12 western states have increased their education funding by 35% over the last couple of decades while those in the East, even in such states as Florida, have been able to increase it by 68%. Good grief, it's at twice the value, it's twice as easy for those of us who don't have the fun and enjoyment of the BLM within our areas to be able to fund our education. "Those of us trying to fund education in western states can't do it because of the paternalistic heavy hand of the federal government that stops us at every level. That is why we have to have a paradigm shift. If we do not do a paradigm shift now, if we do not try and have some way of having the land being able to fund the needs of our communities, it will eventually be lost. And it will be lost as we go forward in this nation with an even harder time balancing our budgets and people in the East will finally say, why are we giving welfare to the West? That's why they call it…welfare to the West. This is the time to make some movements." -30-
02.16.2012	Congressman Jim Matheson has introduced a bipartisan bill to aid the Ute Tribe with a long-sought land exchange that helps preserve tribal cultural lands, provides potential energy-producing lands for the state school trust fund and offers expanded oil and gas production in Utah's Uintah Basin. Matheson is joined by Congressman Rob Bishop on the legislation – H.R. 4027. "This bill helps the Tribe consolidate its management of land that is sacred and culturally significant to the Utes. At the same time, it allows for potential oil and gas development on land not considered environmentally sensitive that would provide more school trust fund revenue and employment for energy workers. Everyone's management objectives are better served and the local economy gets a boost," said Matheson. "I'm pleased to join with Congressman Matheson to facilitate this long-sought land exchange. This legislation not only provides protections to culturally sensitive tribal areas but also allows for development of Utah's abundant energy resources for the benefit of students and the school trust fund. It's always a good thing when you can address the interests of many different parties in a way that benefits everyone, including the educational futures of children in our state," said Congressman Bishop. Matheson said in 2005, the Tribe, the State of Utah and the Bureau of land Management (BLM) reached agreement on a land transaction involving 20,000 acres in northern Grand County which falls within the Hill Creek Extension of the Ute Indian Reservation. That extension was granted to the Utes by Congress in 1948. The Utes hold the surface rights to the area, but the State Institutional Trust land Administration (SITLA) owns the mineral rights. Matheson said the Utes and SITLA identified BLM subsurface mineral lands north of the Grand County line that SITLA would accept, in exchange for giving its mineral rights with the Hill Creek Extension over to the Tribe. Matheson's bill includes language providing for an overriding interest payment from future oil and gas, and other minerals developed by SITLA that provides a royalty percentage to both the state and federal governments. "This bill is the result of consensus reached by all the stakeholders. The legislation is needed to get the process moving so that the Ute Tribe, Utah school children and domestic energy production and jobs benefit," said Matheson. ###
02.15.2012	U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar appeared before the House Natural Resources Committee today to address questions regarding the Interior's portion of the President's FY2013 budget. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, asked Secretary Salazar questions pertaining to the following issues: 1. On January 26th the DOI published a notice in the Federal Register that the BLM will begin charging a $10 overnight camping fee within the North Fruita Desert Special Recreation Management Area, which is located in the State of Colorado. This has caused some concern and raised some objections, and begs the question that if campers were to object to the fee, and "occupy" the campground as they did on the federally managed McPherson Square park in Washington, D.C., would they be allowed to stay for months without paying the fee? 2. President Obama plans to impose a new tax on ranchers. The new "fee" or tax would be in addition to the grazing fee, which is currently $1.35 per Animal Unit Month (AUM). There are concerns that the DOI will circumvent the necessary congressional process and impose the new tax by administrative fiat. 3. The DOI has illustrated that they do not believe the U.S. currently has oil shale technologies that can responsibly develop our oil shale resources. The recently released draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) includes areas designated as preferential leased lands that will now be off limits to commercial leasing in Utah. The DOI has also made it clear that it could be very difficult to comply with the terms of the RD&D leases in order to receive commercial leases for greater acreage. 4. Recently, the National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) was elevated to the level of "directorate." Congressman Bishop asked if this would add a new supervisory authority to NLCS. There is concern that the NLCS is a redundant component of the Bureau of Land Management, adding another layer of bureaucratic management to lands already under the jurisdiction of the BLM. 5. On Feb. 6, 2012, BLM issued a notice in the Federal Register affecting 2.4 million acres of public land in Colorado, Utah and Wyoming. The BLM decided to take a "fresh look" at land-use plans in the aforementioned states dealing with oil shale and tar sands leases. Even though this announcement deals with energy-related leases, the BLM will consider "wilderness characteristics" in determining any future disposition of public lands in the affected areas. "Wilderness characteristics" was the definition of the DOI's "Wild Lands" policy. There is concern that the DOI may plan to resurrect the "Wild Lands" policy next year. Click here to watch the full Q&A
02.13.2012	Today, President Barack Obama released his proposed budget for fiscal year 2013, which calls for $3.8 trillion in spending, $1.5 of which is considered ‘new spending.' Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) expressed concern that the budget would require unsustainable levels of federal spending now and in the future: "The President has never sent Congress a serious budget and this latest one is no exception. The misguided policies and runaway spending outlined in this budget are so far beyond the extreme I find it hard to believe that the President would even consider imposing them on the American people. I would love to know where the President thinks the money will come from to fund all that this bill would require now and well into the future. Even the astronomical and irresponsible $1.9 trillion dollars in tax increases included in this budget isn't enough to balance the books. The President's budget banks on the hopes that savings may materialize down the road. This isn't sound fiscal policy. If the President won't lead, he should get out of the way and come back when he actually has legitimate and responsible policies that contribute to our efforts to get our economy back on track."
02.08.2012	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) joined with 118 fellow Members of Congress to challenge the constitutionality of a component of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) known as the individual mandate. The individual mandate requires all Americas to purchase health insurance under penalty of law. The amicus brief filed today in the U.S. Supreme Court by the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ) urges the high court to uphold the decision of a lower court, which found the individual mandate to be unconstitutional. "It was obvious from the get go that in passing this bill, Congress was acting beyond its constitutional authority. At the time, the Democrat majority was so intent on fulfilling their political agenda they ignored concerns that Obamacare was an egregious and likely unconstitutional overreach by Congress. Both have proved to be true. Obamacare is flawed unconstitutional legislation that must be repealed. The individual mandate is one of the many components within the bill that strip Americans of their freedom to have choices and options when it comes to addressing their healthcare needs. I am proud to be one of the 119 Members included in the amicus brief and will continue to support efforts to repeal the bill in its entirety," said Congressman Bishop. The brief contends: "The individual mandate exceeds the outermost bounds of Congress's Article I authority and is inconsistent with the constitutional system of dual sovereignty that divides power between the federal and State governments. The individual mandate's unprecedented requirement to buy a product from a private company is inconsistent with our constitutional tradition. Although the ACA is the first federal law relying on the Commerce Clause to cross the line between encouraging increased market activity and mandating individual purchases, it will certainly not be the last if the individual mandate is upheld."
02.08.2012	Utah's Congressional delegation today wrote to Secretary Ken Salazar of the U.S. Department of the Interior to urge he overturn the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM's) Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) for Oil Shale and Tar Sands that was recently announced. The PEIS reduced the federal lands available to oil shale development from 2 million acres to only 461,965 acres. Closing off these lands is a significant missed opportunity to create jobs and lower energy costs for Utahns. In the letter to Secretary Salazar, the delegation notes that the BLM ruling runs contrary to President Obama's message in his recent State of the Union address where he called for an "all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy." BISHOP: "The Department of Interior's decision to radically reduce BLM lands available for energy production in Utah and other western states illustrates this Administration's lack of commitment to advance energy independence and jobs in the U.S. The political unrest occurring in many of the oil producing countries, upon which we increasingly rely, could send prices skyrocketing, and it's hard-working Americans who would be forced to shoulder the burden of rising costs. This doesn't have to be the case when we have abundant resources located right here in the U.S. that remain untapped, and millions of Americans out of work who would benefit from the subsequent creation of new jobs. Unfortunately, though, we have an Administration that is focused more on reelection and appealing to their special interest group supporters than doing what's right for the future of this country." HATCH: "The BLM's decision is yet another assault on American energy production and the jobs that come with it. By cutting back the original oil shale and tar sands development lands by 75 percent, the Administration has made it clear that instead of going against their liberal environmentalist allies in an election year, their willing to import more foreign sources of oil and export more American jobs. It's another failure in leadership from this White House while energy costs and unemployment are both far too high." LEE: "In his State of the Union, the President said he wanted to pursue an 'all of the above' energy strategy, but apparently that doesn't include one of the country's most abundant domestic sources. That has to set a land speed record for broken promises. Unfortunately, it will be the American people who suffer, both in lost jobs and in higher energy prices." MATHESON: "If the goal is to become less dependent on foreign oil, we need more domestic supply, including from untapped sources. New methodology to extract oil from shale is on the horizon in Utah. It should be allowed to compete for commercial development and BLM's proposed leasing rules are an obstacle." CHAFFETZ: "President Obama is hostile towards American energy. His decision to shut down oil shale development on public lands inhibits energy independence and economic growth. BLM professionals conducted a three-year, stakeholder driven environmental analysis pursuant to the bipartisan Energy and Policy Act of 2005. This apparently wasn't good enough for the President. His need to re-review the review is disappointing and is lacking in leadership." To view the letter to Secretary Salazar, click HERE. The full text of the letter is below: February 7, 2012 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary United States Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: We write to provide our comments on the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM's) Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) for Oil Shale and Tar Sands. Our strongly held view is that the premise of the PEIS is supported by neither the spirit nor letter of the law, that the alternatives considered by this document are deficient, and that all of the preferred alternatives run contrary to the needs of the nation and of the President's State of the Union message calling for an "all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy." The BLM's stated preference for reducing the available acreage of oil shale and oil sands development by more than 75 percent causes the President's statement to ring hollow. Congress enacted the Oil Shale, Tar Sands, and Other Strategic Unconventional Fuels Act as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005), which passed with a large bipartisan majority. The law recognized the national strategic importance of developing domestic unconventional fuels and called for an effort by the relevant agencies of this government to "coordinate and accelerate the commercial development" of oil shale and oil sands. That is the spirit and letter of the law. With this announcement, the BLM is pursuing a path that is contrary to the clear intent of the law. As required by EPAct 2005, three years of intensive studies, widespread stakeholder input, and robust public comment led to a comprehensive report by the Task Force on Strategic Unconventional Fuels and a final Oil Shale Rule in 2008 which set forth 2 million acres of land available for potential oil shale development. We fail to understand why that massive regulatory process, completed by countless government professionals, is being arbitrarily discarded by the BLM. We also cannot discern whereby the BLM has the authority to unilaterally reverse enacted law or to break precedent by willfully failing to offer a No-Action Alternative. Even the BLM's early announcement that it would revisit the 2008 Oil Shale Rule to consider wilderness characteristics would have been forbidden by the Congressional funding moratorium on the Department of the Interior Secretarial Wildlands Order 3310. It is well known that the Department of Energy has determined that U.S. oil shale resources are about three times as large as the proven oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. As the world and our President must deal with an increasingly dangerous Middle East, it is unconscionable at this time to retreat from one of America's greatest potential energy sources, especially when industry has shown the will and the means to move forward. As you well know, oil shale has been commercially produced and sold competitively in global oil markets for decades. There is no lack of existing technology or data associated with that technology. Moreover, there has already been an impressive level of investment by members of industry ready to bring current and enhanced technology to American oil shale deposits. What is needed is a regulatory atmosphere that encourages this trend. Sadly, it appears that your administration has taken every opportunity to send the opposite signal to this burgeoning industry. The latest move by the BLM to restrict by more than 75 percent the acreage available to possible oil shale research and development would do harm to this industry and our nation's energy security. We strongly urge you to bring your department's actions in line with the current law and the stated goals of the President Barack Obama. Rather than retreat from this important and strategic undertaking, you should take steps to vigorously defend the 2008 Oil Shale PEIS. Sincerely,
02.03.2012	The U.S. Air Force (USAF) today released its latest changes to USAF Force Structure, which are based upon President Obama's requirement that the Department of Defense reassess U.S. defense strategy in order to severely scale back defense capabilities and subsequent spending. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), whose district includes Hill Air Force Base, issued the following statement: "I am pleased that the Air Force remains committed to the F-35 as being the backbone of the future Air Force, and it appears that Hill AFB's designation as the location for the first operational squadron of F-35s remains secure. At the moment it appears that new reductions for Hill will be minimal, but one can never guarantee how this process may change," said Congressman Bishop. "I remain concerned that cuts to defense are going too far and are too deep. We have a Constitutional obligation to provide for the common defense of our country. By continuing to rely upon defense spending to balance out spending on other non essential programs, the Administration is seriously weakening our national security capabilities. I am growing wary of these efforts and I join with many of my colleagues in Congress in working to maintain essential defense programs, as it is in the vital national security interests of the United States." To read the complete report on USAF Force Structure Changes click here.
02.03.2012	Today, U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar released the results of their draft 2012 Programmatic Environment Impact Statement (PEIS). This is a reevaluation of the 2008 PEIS and, if approved, would only make available a mere 461,965 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land in Utah and other western states for development of Oil Shale and Tar Sands. This is in stark contrast to the 2 million acres that were previously made available. The Obama Administration recently announced intentions to reevaluate the 2008 Record of Decision for the Programmatic EIS, which was conducted as a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. This 2008 PEIS made nearly 2,000,000 acres of the richest, most concentrated deposits of oils shale in the U.S. available for oil development. These areas are located throughout the Rocky Mountain States of Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming. "This week, both Democrats and Republicans on the House Natural Resources committee joined together to approve bipartisan legislation that would increase domestic energy production, including oil shale, create jobs and fund essential roads and bridges throughout the country. Just as we take steps to improve energy production in this country, the Administration throws up yet another energy roadblock, destroying hopes of new jobs, more education funding for our children, and a chance to obtain true energy independence," said Congressman Bishop. "Today, Secretary Salazar further illustrated that this Administration doesn't care about energy, jobs or the impact this will have on the West. Utah has unduly suffered from this Administration's anti-energy policies, and is still working to recover from the cancellation of 77 oil and gas leases. It's mind boggling that on the same day he announces this new roadblock, he would actually host a ‘live chat' to boast about the damage this Administration is doing to country. It's increasingly apparent that this Administration simply cares more about their reelection campaign than they do the American people." The American Petroleum Institute estimates that oil shale resources in Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming are between 1.2 and 1.8 trillion barrels of oil equivalent in the ground. As much as 500 billion to 1.1 trillion barrels of that are considered potentially recoverable. Close to two-thirds of global oil shale resources are located in the United States.
02.02.2012	In Case You Missed It... The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) calculates that 5,000 pounds of trash from illegal border traffic was collected on January 28, 2012 during a scheduled cleanup of the Rio Rico area located north of Nogales. Federal land management policies currently restrict the U.S. Border Patrol from maintaining a routine presence on much of the 20.7 million acres of federal land located throughout the southern border region. The land management policies intended to protect the health and vitality of these areas has lead to increased trafficking and smuggling, which has subsequently caused severe environmental damage largely from foot traffic, trash and fires. The underreported aspect of this story is the environmental impact occurring from not allowing the Border Patrol access necessary to do their job on public lands. The results of Saturday's cleanup measure, collected in 250 55-gallon bags, is the tangible impact of ignoring the need to allow our border agents to do their jobs. Henry Darwin of the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality recently stated that, "These are dangerous areas. These are known areas of illegal immigration, illegal drug trafficking." ADEQ issued the following release detailing the cleanup effort held on January 28th: More than 10,000 pounds of Border Trash Collected during Cleanup of Santa Cruz River in Rio Rico on Saturday PHOENIX (Jan. 30, 2012) – More than 10,000 pounds of border trash were collected by 123 volunteers during the Saturday, Jan. 28 cleanup event on the Santa Cruz River north of Nogales in Rio Rico. The event was sponsored by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality, Friends of the Santa Cruz River, Anza Trail Coalition, Rio Rico Properties and Santa Cruz County. The volunteer army collected more than 250 55-gallon bags of trash and a front-end loader hauled away various large items like discarded mattresses, sofas and desks that were along the river. About half of the trash was believed to be discarded by those who illegally crossed the border in the area and the other half by area residents who illegally dumped material. "ADEQ would like to thank all of the great volunteers who stepped up in this noble effort to protect our environment," ADEQ Director Henry Darwin said. "There was a huge amount of illegally discarded border trash in this section of the river and they did an excellent job of collecting it and seeing to it that it was disposed of properly." ADEQ workers have been involved in a number of trail cleanups in the border region in recent years, including other cleanups in the Santa Cruz, the Arivaca region northwest of Nogales, the Colorado River area south of Yuma, arroyos near Douglas and in the Coronado National Forest near Sierra Vista and Green Valley. The following story illustrates that the more remote areas, most of which are federally managed lands, are the favored routes for illegal entry into the U.S. and efforts to clean up the discarded trash are both tough and risky. Border-trash battle called tough, risky Sara Smith Cronkite News Service Friday, January 20, 2012 Large piles of discarded debris are left by illegal immigrants in areas that are increasingly remote - making them harder to get to for trash removal. PHOENIX - With many of those crossing the border illegally shifting to remote areas in response to stepped-up enforcement, the trash they leave behind is becoming tougher - and riskier - to clean up, a state agency director told lawmakers Thursday. "These are dangerous areas," Henry Darwin of the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality told the Senate Border Security, Federalism and States Sovereignty Committee. "These are known areas of illegal immigration, illegal drug trafficking." He called trash along the border "a fairly significant issue" that has persisted even as illegal border crossings have declined slightly. Showing pictures of trash-strewn landscapes, Darwin said that illegal immigrants leave behind an estimated 2,000 tons of clothing, backpacks, plastic bottles, soiled diapers, abandoned vehicles and more each year. The worst sites are where illegal immigrants or drug smugglers wait or camp, he said, adding that rain often washes the debris into drainages. With those sites increasingly in remote areas, getting cleanup crews and equipment to them is more difficult, Darwin said. "It's causing a real challenge for us to get the material out of the desert," he said. The ADEQ organizes its own cleanups and partners with organizations, local agencies and the Tohono O'odham Nation, Darwin said, adding that his agency has created a website, www.azbordertrash.gov, to share information on those efforts. The Environmental Protection Agency and the Bureau of Land Management contribute most of the money for the ADEQ's border efforts, he added. While the ADEQ publicizes the general areas of its border-cleanup events, it won't announce exactly where out of concern for the safety of those who may try to help on their own, he said. Darwin said Pima County - the Tohono O'odham Nation in particular - has been hardest-hit. Sen. Gail Griffin, R-Hereford, noted that one of the sites featured in Darwin's presentation is a half mile from her Southeastern Arizona home. "In many of these lay-up sites that I've been out to, you can actually smell them before you get to them," she said. Sen. Al Melvin, R-Tucson, suggested using inmate labor to address the problem. "It's equal to the all-volunteer effort, but in a sense it's better because we can do it day in and day out," Melvin said. -30-
01.26.2012	Congressman Bishop (R-UT) today expressed concern over U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta's reported plans to recommend that Congress authorize a new round of Base Realignment and Closures (BRAC), with the process beginning as early as next year. "We have a constitutional obligation to provide for the national defense of our country. The safety and security of our country rests squarely on our military readiness and defense capabilities, which have been under attack by the current Administration. The President has spent the last three years making significant cuts to Defense spending, including the area of missile defense. As a result, we are less secure against threats from other countries such as Iran and North Korea. Let me be very clear, defense should not exempt from budgetary scrutiny and BRAC may very well be warranted in the future, but to be done properly the process takes time," said Congressman Bishop. "The reality is that BRAC can bring both opportunity and hardship for military communities. It's a complex process that should not be done in haste. A hastily conducted BRAC round could do more harm than good to our military readiness while causing significant pain to military communities and the loss of jobs." "I remain very concerned that the President continues to unduly target our national defense for budget cuts, while utilizing billions of taxpayer dollars to fund countless programs in which the federal government has no business being involved. Before a BRAC process should occur, the first order of business should be examining the overall impact that the already mandated cuts will have to military readiness. Because of the cuts the Administration has already made to many defense programs, the specialized maintenance capabilities unique to places like Hill Air Force Base become that much more essential," Bishop added. "I am concerned about the impact BRAC could have on jobs in Utah and across the country, especially as we work to bring stability and greater certainty to our waning economy. However, in this instance, jobs are not the primary focus of my concern. This past year this Administration reinforced the fact that they do not appear to recognize the significance of what is done at places like Hill. The President's relentless pursuit to diminish defense capabilities is deeply troubling. He is banking on his ability to predict the future when he clearly doesn't understand the past."
01.26.2012	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, today responded to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack's release of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) for the National Forest System Land Management Planning Rule. The PEIS will be published in the Federal Register on February 3, 2012 and the Secretary will then issue a record of decision no less than 30 days after. The National Forest System consists of 155 National Forests and 20 Grasslands, totaling 192 million acres in 44 States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. "Gifford Pinchot and other early founders of the National Forest System sought to ensure that we would have working forests that would serve multiple objectives. Their intention for creating the National Forest System was not to block access to our resources but to ensure that the federal estate remained a sustainable resource for years to come. It seems as though many in Washington have overlooked this, and instead look for ways to prevent multiple-use management of our federal lands. This should not be the case. I am concerned that this final rule continues that very sentiment and I hope that the Administration recognizes that it undermines the intent and purpose for which the National Forest System was established," said Congressman Bishop who, along with 58 other Members of Congress, issued a letter to Secretary Vilsack expressing concern over restrictive regulations included in the proposed new rule. The National Forest Management Act (NFMA) of 1976 requires that forests and grasslands managed by the Forest Service maintain a Land Management Plan (also known as a forest plan). The process for the development of the plans is outlined by the planning rule.
01.24.2012	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands and co-founder of the 10th Amendment Task Force, issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's 2012 State of the Union Address: "Based solely on the rhetoric of tonight's speech, there are many things upon which the President and I both agree. This has been the case in several past speeches as well. I agree that we must help reinvigorate the manufacturing industry so that jobs may return to the U.S., and that a skilled workforce, especially in the areas of science and technology is essential to the future of our country. I also agree that education is better addressed at the state and local levels, giving teachers, parents, and communities, the flexibility necessary to meet the educational needs of every child. "Hardly anyone will argue against the fact that the President is well practiced at delivering speeches. However, when it comes time to actually developing or producing policies that uphold his commitments, the President consistently falls short of promised expectations. I remain cautiously optimistic that 2012 will be different. "While the President touted his record on illegal immigration, he overlooked the fact that not all areas of the border are safer. Areas where the U.S. Border Patrol has access to the border have seen improvements, however, areas that remain virtually inaccessible, such as public lands and wilderness areas continue to be a haven of criminal activity. In the last two years, two Americans have been killed on public lands, one of them with a weapon obtained through the botched Obama Administration Fast and Furious program. Comprehensive immigration reform must begin by securing our entire border, not just select areas. "If the President were as committed to advancing domestic energy production as he claimed tonight, he would fully reinstate the 77 oil and gas leases in Utah that were canceled in the earliest weeks of his administration. In addition he would reinstate uranium mining in Arizona—an essential component of clean and safe nuclear energy and he would approve the Keystone XL pipeline. Clean energy should be part of our domestic energy efforts, but they are just that – a part. Our public lands should be utilized to pursue a real all-of-the-above energy strategy, not just those sources hand-selected by the President at the request of his special interest group supporters. "The President has spent the majority of his tenure not doing what's best for hard-working Americans, or in the best interest of our nation's energy independence and security, but instead what's most politically advantageous for him. That has never been more evident than tonight. Pandering to special interest group allies may help the President's re-election campaign, but it does nothing to create jobs, encourage economic growth or bring us closer to energy independence. The 77 oil and gas leases in Utah and the Keystone XL Pipeline are prime examples. "While I agree that we must reform tax loopholes, raising taxes is still not the answer. No hard working taxpayer should be required to pay over 37 percent of their income to a federal government that will waste it on more government programs. This will not help create jobs, in fact it will do just the opposite. However, unleashing America's true potential through pro-growth free-market principles will. "It was evident tonight that the House floor was merely a stop on the President's campaign tour. A year ago, he committed to work with Congress. Instead, he spent most of the year blaming Congress for his failures. He made no attempt at compromise, no attempt to seek common ground and traveled from state to state vilifying Republicans in hopes that casting blame would help win reelection. It's time he plays by the rules."
01.18.2012	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who authored legislation directing the State Department to permit the Keystone XL pipeline, today decried President Barack Obama's decision to officially oppose the Keystone XL pipeline project. Congressman Bishop and Senator David Vitter (R-LA) sponsored the Domestic Jobs, Domestic Energy, and Deficit Reduction Act of 2011 (3-D Act), which, among other things, directed the State Department to issue all permits necessary to move forward with the Keystone XL Pipeline Project. "As far as I can tell, the President's energy agenda is simply to make it harder and more expensive for the American people to get by. Whether he likes it or not, the U.S. needs oil and since he won't allow the U.S. to produce more domestically, we are forced to import it from other countries. Canadian crude oil refined by the U.S. is one of the safest and most affordable alternatives we have to meet our domestic oil demands, which currently outpace supply," said Congressman Bishop. "It is my hope that the President will heed the advice of his own Jobs Council, which included in their year-end report a recommendation for increased access to energy resources on public lands." On Tuesday, January 17, 2012, the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness issued its year-end report, which called for improved access to our nation's abundant domestic energy resources. Specifically, the report stated that, "As a nation, we need to take advantage of all our natural resources to spur economic growth, create jobs and reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil. First, we should allow more access to oil, natural gas and coal opportunities on federal lands." "The President's decision to oppose the shovel-ready Keystone XL pipeline is irresponsible and illustrates that the President is more concerned about getting re-elected than doing what's best for the American people," Bishop added. The United States' daily oil consumption far outpaces domestic production. Therefore, the U.S. must import oil to compensate for the disparity between supply and demand. Presently the U.S. imports approximately 10 million barrels a day while consumption averages around 15 million. Click here for more information on U.S. oil importation from the U.S. Energy Information Administration. "For nearly three years, hard-working Americans have suffered from the President's anti-energy policies, enduring astronomical prices at the pump and unaffordable home energy costs. We need to look no further for an example of this than the cancellation of 77 oil and gas leases in my home state of Utah—one of the Administration's earliest actions taken against the oil and gas industry. This not only dealt a devastating blow to our nation's efforts to become more energy independent but it also prevented thousands of new high-paying long-term jobs from being created," Bishop concluded. Experts forecast that U.S. consumption of oil will continue at current levels for the next two to three decades. In addition to helping the U.S. meet its oil demands, it is projected that the Keystone XL pipeline would have employed 13,000 Americans to construct the pipeline as well as an additional 7,000 manufacturing jobs.
01.18.2012	"One of the driving forces behind the U.S. economy is its ability to protect the property rights of its citizens. Unfortunately, many foreign nations fail to respect those same rights overseas. The Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) may be a well-intentioned tool to protect intellectual property, but I oppose it in its current form. The Internet has seen an explosion of innovation and growth in large part because it has been void of the heavy hand of the federal government. While I share the goals of protecting the freedom of the Internet and defending the rights of intellectual property owners, I have concerns that SOPA could lead to too much government intervention and control."
01.09.2012	Today, House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) conveyed his disappointment over U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar's announcement that the Administration will impose a 20-year ban on uranium mining on one million acres of land in northern Arizona. Uranium is a necessary component in the production of clean, safe and affordable nuclear energy. The uranium being withdrawn from production represents 40 percent of our nation's domestic uranium resources and the deposits contain the highest-grade existing in the United States. According to a report conducted by the American Clean Energy Resources Trust, a ban on mining in this region could impact as many as 1000 jobs and more than $29 million in economic revenue. "It is unconscionable that the Administration has yet again caved to political pressure from radical special interest groups rather than standing up for the American people. Banning access to the most uranium rich land in the United States will be overwhelmingly detrimental to both jobs in Utah and Arizona and our nation's domestic energy security. While I'm disappointed that the Administration has again allowed politics to usurp sound science, unfortunately I am not surprised," said Congressman Bishop. The U.S. Department of Interior solicited a study evaluating the impact of uranium mining in northern Arizona region. The study found little in the way of conclusive evidence suggesting that a permanent ban would be necessary. During a recent committee hearing on legislation to prevent the withdrawal, Congressman Bishop questioned Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Bob Abbey about the findings of the DOI's Environmental Impact Study (EIS.) Director Abbey responded by stating that, "The draft EIS stated that there was incomplete and unavailable information that added uncertainty to the analysis and cited potential risk from mining." "The Administration spent nearly three years conducting an extensive study on the impact of mining in the region, done in addition to many other past studies, which resulted in ‘incomplete and unavailable information'. In light of these findings, or lack thereof, there is clearly not enough evidence to justify this radical decision. Lacking the scientific evidence to support this ban, the Administration opted to bypass congress in order to unilaterally impose bad policy. It's a pattern we've come to expect from the President. When he and his cabinet want to enact their radical political agenda, they often do so without public input or consideration for those who will be harmed the most. As history has proven, production of our abundant domestic resources and environmental stewardship are not mutually exclusive. We can achieve both for the benefit of all," Bishop Added. "As we have done to address so many other inanely wrongheaded decisions that have come from this Administration, we'll fight this one too. I will work with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to ensure that the Administration is held accountable for ignoring the priorities of the American people."
12.13.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act of 2011 [H.R. 3630]. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the legislation, which includes provisions that strengthen our economy and help get Americans back to work. "There are many things about this legislation that are beneficial to the country, including an extension of the payroll tax break, the permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline and measures that help incentivize job creation. Plus, the bill accomplishes those things without raising taxes. This legislation is a step in the right direction, but there are also some components that I find less favorable. One of the off-sets is an extension of the current pay freeze for federal workers, including civilian defense employees. Rather than a temporary pay freeze on our workforce, we need real and permanent systemic reforms that truly address the problems with our government spending practices," said Congressman Bishop. "While this bill doesn't go as far as I would prefer to address current spending problems, it does include important provisions that will help with job creation and economic growth. I am hopeful that the Senate will recognize the merits of this bill and pass it."
12.08.2011	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives approved The Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act, introduced in the House by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and in the Senate by Senator Mike Lee (R-UT). This legislation was approved in the Senate on November 2, 2011, and will now head to the President's desk to be signed into law. The bill conveys three parcels of land totaling nearly 32 acres to the town of Mantua, Utah for public use. The land is located on the south end of town below 100 South and West of Main Street and Willard Peak Road and is part of a much larger tract originally owned by Hans Rasmussen, an early settler of the area. His family deeded the land to the U.S. Forest Service in 1941 for a mere $1.00. "I am pleased that Mantua will finally gain control of this land, which will help the town meet the needs of its growing community," said Congressman Bishop. "While this legislation has been consistently successful in the House, the Senate has failed to act in previous years. I want to thank Senator Lee for his support of this bill and for his efforts to help ensure the town of Mantua finally gains control of this land. I look forward to the President signing this bill into law." The Box Elder Land Conveyance Act has been introduced by Congressman Bishop and adopted in House twice previously, during the 110th and 111th congresses. On Monday, December 5th, Congressman Bishop spoke on the House floor in support of the legislation. Click here to watch.
12.07.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the legislation, which brings much needed oversight to the creation of burdensome new regulations that impact our nation's small businesses. "There is persistent uncertainty remaining over our economy and as a result, our small businesses continue to struggle to find stable ground necessary to grow and create new jobs. It is incumbent upon us to do what we can to support them during these challenging times, and that begins by reforming the current regulatory system," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, the measure requires Congress and the President to sign-off on all new regulations that have an economic impact of $100 million or more. "Despite what some in the current Administration may think, the Executive Branch is not a legislative body. The Constitution clearly outlines that it is Congress that is entrusted with legislative power. Many in Washington do not like this fact and in an effort to circumvent Congress, have created countless new regulations and mandates that allow them to still achieve their goals. Many of these policies are stifling the ability of small businesses to create the jobs our country so desperately needs. We must reform the system. The REINS Act brings much needed oversight to this cottage industry of rule making and I hope my colleagues in the Senate recognize the urgent need to pass this legislation," Bishop added. In 2010 the federal government issued 3,271 new rules and regulations and currently, many small businesses spend nearly $10,500 per employee to comply with federal regulations. This hinders their ability to create new positions, maintain lower consumer costs and increase wages for existing employees. In addition, many of the regulations have become so burdensome that many businesses have no choice but to pass the added costs on to the consumer just to keep their doors open.
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of H.J. Res 2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The measure fell just short of garnering the two-thirds majority needed for passage. "While it is not the panacea for all our problems, a Balanced Budget Amendment is a responsible measure aimed at curbing Washington's insatiable appetite for growth and deficit spending. There is no reason why Washington should be exempt from maintaining a balanced budget like families, businesses and states in this country. Doing so would help ensure fiscal responsibility and solvency necessary to avoid bankruptcy and promote greater economic stability. Unfortunately, years of irresponsible spending and overzealous policies aimed at growing government have led to the debt crisis in which we currently find ourselves. We must implement policies that not only pay down the national debt but also create safeguards that prevent irresponsible deficit spending in the future. The fact that we didn't get enough votes for passage is disappointing and clearly demonstrates the fundamental difference between the two parties when it comes to controlling spending and government." An amendment to the Constitution requires a two-thirds majority vote for passage in both the House and Senate and ratification by three-fourths of the states to become effective. The measure considered today in the House would have required the U.S. government to operate under a balanced budget each year with no deficits. The amendment specifically would prevent congress from maintaining an annual deficit unless authorized by a three-fifths vote from both the House and the Senate.
11.17.2011	Utah Governor Gary Herbert and Utah's entire congressional delegation, including Utah Senators Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee, and Congressmen Rob Bishop, Jim Matheson and Jason Chaffetz, today expressed deep concerns with the Air Force's decision to eliminate jobs at Hill Air Force Base. The Governor and Utah's delegation sent a letter today to Air Force Secretary Michael Donley detailing their disappointment with the decision. Currently, there are approximately 24,000 employees that work at Hill Air Force Base in various roles. In the letter, the elected officials write that, the Air Force's decisions jeopardizes "the future modernization of Hill AFB facilities and infrastructure." They also note that "the Air Force either can't, or won't, provide us with the needed answers as the analytical process seems to have been circumvented." HERBERT : "Utah's Hill Air Force Base is unquestionably a critical component of our nation's modern defense system. This state is deeply disappointed with today's announcement, particularly given the lack of public process and absence of local input. With so much other waste in Washington, this hasty decision appears to be short-sighted and even counter-productive, jeopardizing the modernization of the country's defense. While some are saying this is a done deal, this is not over--we will exhaust every option to keep Hill as one of nation's premier defense installations and preserve valuable jobs for Utahns." HATCH : "The Air Force's decision ignores the basic fact that the men and women at Hill Air Force Base are among the hardest-working and most efficient workers in our armed forces. It's simply the wrong decision as anyone who's visited Hill well knows. I firmly believe that the command at Hill and the Ogden Air Logistics Center would be able to work with the Air Force to meet the service's – and Utahns' – goal of saving taxpayer dollars and maintaining the strongest military in the world. I'm going to continue to press the Air Force on maintaining the current logistics center infrastructure and do everything I can to ensure the 24,000 jobs at Hill remain in northern Utah." LEE: "The planned reorganization of the Air Force Materiel Command, which will significantly affect Hill Air Force Base, should be shelved immediately. The announcement came with very little coordination or communication with Utah's representatives and many important questions remain. The Air Force has pursued this plan with an unsettling amount of secrecy and during the process failed to provide adequate details regarding personnel reductions and possible relocation sites, despite assurances that those would be made in a fair and open manner. It has failed to perform a business-case analysis, which is necessary to determine whether the reorganization will even accomplish its stated goal. I repeatedly and specifically asked the Air Force to postpone its announcement until these issues had been resolved, but it was unwilling to change its plans. As a result, I plan to fight this plan on all fronts." BISHOP: "In light of the fact that many questions remain unanswered and no Business Case Analysis has been conducted, I remain deeply concerned that the Air Force has chosen to proceed with the announcement of this proposal. A BCA is an essential step that must be taken to determine whether these decisions will be beneficial or detrimental to Utah and air logistics capabilities as a whole. This necessary analysis would provide evidence as to whether or not this would actually benefit taxpayers or end up costing more in the long run as many suspect. The Air Force has remained elusive about the details of this plan, including their refusal to conduct a BCA. They have been less than forthcoming about what personnel reductions may occur and where, as well as the overall impact this will have on jobs, Utah, Hill AFB and efficiency amongst all Air Logistics Centers. Subsequently, I have requested on several occasions, in writing and in person, that Air Force Secretary Michael Donley immediately halt the implementation of this plan. I want to do what is best for the Air Force and for the nation but so far the Air Force has yet to prove that this proposal is in the best interest of the country." MATHESON: "There is a process in place for how these workforce decisions are made. I have concerns that in this case, the Department of Defense's own rules and regulations were not followed. That raises questions about how appropriate the job reductions are, given the importance of Hill's mission and the excellence and efficiency shown by Hill's employees in our national defense." Hill Air Force Base is composed of two major components: the Fighter Wings and Ogden Air Logistics Center. Under the Air Force's plan, Ogden's commander will no longer be a Major General but a Brigadier General. Ogden's name will also be changed from an Air Logistics Center to an Air Logistics Complex. The Governor and the delegation are concerned that the Air Force's plan could disrupt the integrated management of Ogden's life-cycle managers, who plan and engineer modifications to aircraft, and depot maintainers, who are responsible for performing the actual work on the aircraft. According to the Air Force, Ogden will not lose any of its current functions and missions, and the F-22 program managers previously scheduled to move to Ogden are in fact coming. In addition, the Secretary of the Air Force has said that Hill Air Force Base is on track to receive the first three operational squadrons of F-35s. The text of the letter Governor Herbert and Utah's congressional delegation sent to Sen. Donley is below, and can also be viewed HERE : November 2, 2011 The Honorable Michael Donley Secretary - United States Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 Dear Mr. Secretary: As a united delegation of Utah elected officials, we are writing to express dismay following your meeting yesterday afternoon with selected Congressional leaders regarding your anticipated announcement which will outline a major reorganization of the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), significant downgrading of the Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), and the establishment of new centralized bureaucracies in Ohio and Oklahoma. As things stand, we cannot support your proposal due to the lack of analysis which prohibits us from judging the efficacy of the proposed changes and the impacts on sustainment. Sadly, the Air Force either can't, or won't, provide us with the needed answers as the analytical process seems to have been circumvented. For months, our delegation's attempts at dialogue and partnership have largely been rebuffed by you, and other Air Force leaders, even as AFMC's reorganization plans were being drafted in haste and behind the cloak of non-disclosure agreements. It is regrettable that you would proceed to move forward to approve and implement such a major reorganization in this effusive manner while ignoring Air Force regulations (AF165-509) which require that a formal Business Case Analysis (BCA) to be conducted on any proposed action which would result in a $500 million or greater impact across the five-year defense plan (FYDP). Lt. General Janet Wolfenbarger admitted, in writing, that no BCA had been completed, even though the $500 million threshold is reached. Therefore, your action appears to be in violation of Air Force and Department of Defense (DoD) regulations. Even without a regulatory mandate, principles of responsible government would dictate that a BCA be conducted to demonstrate to taxpayers that such a major reorganization creating two new three-star bureaucracies makes fiscal sense. The secretive and subjective process used by you and the Air Force to determine the locations for the two new 3-star bureaucracies inherent in your plan is highly suspect, and offends the very notions of fairness and open government. To have determined these locations in secret violates the precedents used previously by the Air Force in making basing decisions. While we continue to have various other unanswered questions regarding your plan's impact on sustainment for the war fighter, due mainly to the lack of specifics from you, one of our most significant concerns is that the plan could severely undercut the long-term viability of the Falcon Hill Enhanced Use Lease (EUL) project at Hill Air Force Base. As you well know, the taxpayers of Utah have invested over $20 million in state funds into the Falcon Hill EUL partnership. That investment now stands at risk through what appears to be an impetuous Air Force reorganization scheme that could reduce demand for Falcon Hill, thereby jeopardizing the future modernization of Hill AFB facilities and infrastructure. To announce your plan, and not to have considered these potential negative impacts on Falcon Hill and Hill AFB modernization, is most disappointing and irresponsible. Once again, we strongly urge you to defer the AFMC reorganization implementation until greater dialogue and disclosure is achieved with stakeholders, and a formal BCA is completed in compliance with Air Force and DoD regulations, including a detailed review of how the Falcon Hill EUL and Hill AFB future modernization could be negatively impacted. Sincerely, HATCH HERBERT LEE MATHESON BISHOP CHAFFETZ # # #
11.17.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Senator Mike Lee (R-UT), and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) today introduced the Wasatch Range Recreation Access Enhancement Act in both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate [ H.R. 3452, S. 1883]. This legislation would make available 30 acres of federal land for sale at fair market value that would be utilized to create a gondola transportation system to link Canyons Resort and Solitude Mountain Resort, connecting more than 6,000 acres of mountain terrain. It is estimated that the new gondola could create more than 500 permanent jobs and infuse more than $50 million into the local economy. The enhanced accessibility will bolster both tourism revenue and job creation in the state. "Utah is home to the greatest snow on earth. The bill will give Utahns and visitors better access to that snow. I look forward to the day when someone can park at a resort in one canyon and spend the day skiing in another canyon. This will be a big boon to our state's tourism. I am always glad to do everything I can to free up public lands for the kind of development that will help grow Utah's economy and give those wishing to enjoy our beautiful state an expanded ability to do so," Senator Hatch said. "Utah offers some of the country's most preeminent winter recreation opportunities and our mountain resorts are second to none. Unfortunately, getting from one mountain resort to another can be a challenge for locals and tourists looking to take advantage of all that Utah has to offer. By freeing up this small sliver of land and making access between the two regions convenient for all, we will improve our ability to showcase Utah's diverse and world-class mountain terrain. This legislation will not only bolster tourism revenue upon which so many seasonal winter industries rely, but will also create jobs in our state," said Congressman Bishop. Currently, those interested in accessing both resort communities must travel more than 35 miles by car or shuttle. The new gondola system will extend two miles between the resorts, cutting down on the need for visitors to travel by car. This will not only improve accessibility, but will also help alleviate traffic in the canyon by 18,000 autos per year, reducing both congestion and emissions from cars traveling between the two regions. "I will always support measures that will give the state of Utah more control over Utah's land. Tourism is an extremely important part of the state economy, and releasing this small section of land from federal control so that it may be sold and developed will improve Utah's tourism appeal while increasing transportation efficiency and creating jobs. I am proud to co-sponsor legislation that will be such a boon for my home state," said Senator Mike Lee. "Access and opportunities to ski the greatest snow on earth will improve and increase dramatically under the parameters of this bill. I support the project and the positive impacts it will have on the State of Utah," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. In addition to reducing emissions from autos, the bill ensures that all appropriate environmental policies are considered including the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Endangered Species Act and all other applicable laws.
11.16.2011	This week, the U.S. Department of Interior released disbursements from revenue generated by energy production during fiscal year 2011. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the DOI's announcement:"I find it ironic that Secretary Salazar is highlighting the numerous benefits of energy production in this country when he and the Administration have undertaken several different efforts to prohibit access to our nation's abundant natural energy resources. However, I am pleased that the Secretary acknowledges the economic opportunities that come with energy production as well as its importance to education throughout the West. I wish that with this acknowledgement would come a plan to end the DOI's ongoing efforts to lock up lands from energy development and multiple-use. I also hope that Secretary Salazar, recognizing the positive impact energy production has on education in the West, will support the APPLE Act. This bill helps address education funding shortages created largely by abundant federal land holdings throughout the West." The Western Energy Alliance has compiled the "top 10" ways energy production is being prohibited in the U.S. Click here to read. Click here to read the full release from the Department of Interior
11.08.2011	1. Bill Authored by Bishop Heads to President's Desk 2. Two Bishop Bills Pass the House and Head to Senate 3. Bishop, Barrasso, Udall and DeGette Offer Bipartisan Bill to Support Mountain Ski Economies NEWS RELEASEFor Immediate ReleaseContact: (202) 205-1134Twitter: @forestservice USDA Forest Service Welcomes Boon to Local Economies in Ski Communities WASHINGTON, Nov. 7, 2011—President Barack Obama today signed the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011, which permits year-long recreation opportunities on U.S. Forest Service ski areas, boosting rural economies while continuing to maintain stringent environmental safeguards. The year-long recreation season is estimated to annually sustain up to 600 extra jobs and is expected to bring in an additional $40 million to local communities in direct spending. "The Forest Service is taking steps to promote job growth every day," said USDA Under Secretary Harris Sherman. "We look forward to welcoming hundreds of thousands more visitors throughout the entire year to their national forests." The new legislation amends the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986, which allowed only nordic and alpine skiing. Under the new legislation, other snow sports may be permitted on National Forest System lands, as well as year-round activities. Potential permitted activities may include zip lines, mountain bike terrain parks and trails, Frisbee golf courses, and ropes courses. Currently, the Forest Service averages 27 million visits annually to ski areas. This has contributed $4 billion every winter and created approximately 80,000 full-, part-time and seasonal jobs in hard-hit rural communities. Under the new legislation, the Forest Service anticipates roughly 600,000 more summertime visits that may create and sustain up to 600 more full-, part-time and seasonal jobs. The addition of summer recreation is expected to infuse almost $40 million of direct funding into local mountain communities. Protecting natural resources will remain a priority and year-long facilities will be subject to the same review and approval processes as those for ski facilities such as the construction of ski lifts and ski trails. Not all recreation activities will be permitted. Those considered to be destructive to the natural environment will be excluded, including tennis courts, water slides and water parks, swimming pools, golf courses, and amusement parks. "The national forests have always been some of America's greatest playgrounds," said U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell. "It is exciting that our ski areas will now be able to offer more recreational opportunities and economic benefits." The mission of the U.S. Forest Service is to sustain the health, diversity, and productivity of the nation's forests and grasslands to meet the needs of present and future generations. Recreational activities on our lands contribute $14.5 billion annually to the U.S. economy. The agency manages 193 million acres of public land, provides assistance to state and private landowners, and maintains the largest forestry research organization in the world. # USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer and lender. To file a complaint of discrimination, write: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Ave., S.W., Washington, D.C. 20250-9410 or call (800) 795-3272 (voice), or (202) 720-6382 (TDD).
11.07.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, today hailed the Senate passage of the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011[H.R. 765]. This legislation was introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) on February 17, 2011 with the support of Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) and passed the House on October 3, 2011. Senators John Barrasso (R-WY) and Mark Udall (D-CO) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. It will now head to the President's desk to be signed into law. The Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011 amends the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 to allow permitting for recreational activities in ski areas located on National Forest Service lands throughout the entire year and not just the winter months. "I am pleased that the Senate recognized the importance of updating the antiquated National Forest Ski Area Permit Act, and passed this bill. Ski areas that have only been able to utilize Forest Service lands during the winter months will now be able to offer recreational opportunities throughout the year. This will improve their ability to increase tourism-based revenue. Bills such as this that remove unnecessary bureaucratic red-tape and improve outdated policies are important to our ongoing efforts to support local communities as they work to overcome current economic challenges," said Congressman Bishop. Additionally, the legislation modifies and updates outdated language written in the 1986 law, which currently states that only ski-related activities may occur in Forest Service ski areas. In addition to alpine and Nordic skiing, other recreational snow sports such as snowboarding will now officially be included in the law. This legislation does not waive the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to allow for these new activities to take place.
11.04.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement regarding the latest jobs report by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, which indicates that unemployment remains around 9%: "Today's unemployment numbers are both troubling and telling. They reveal that much uncertainty remains among our nation's business owners and employers. The confidence necessary for business owners to take risks that ultimately help grow the economy simply does not exist. The Obama Administration has hit the campaign trail in an attempt to tout their so-called jobs proposals that is eerily reminiscent of the failed stimulus, which only added to our growing $15 trillion deficit. During their remarks, the President and members of his Administration conveniently leave out any mention of their decimation of domestic energy production, destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs, and consistent efforts to lock up our nation's public lands and resources from use. "It concerns me that the Senate and President consistently refuse to consider the numerous bills passed by the House of Representatives that would encourage and support the creation of thousands of new jobs. Senator Reid and President Obama continue to stonewall efforts to cut spending, reduce the tax burden on hard-working Americans, and remove bureaucratic red tape that imposes redundant and often unnecessary regulations that prevent businesses of all sizes from creating jobs. The only way we are going to get this country back on track is by providing businesses and individuals with the with the tools and environment necessary to invest and grow. This can only happen if we encourage the development of free market principles, as many of the House bills do that are currently sitting in the Senate collecting dust." This week a new study conducted by Pew revealed nearly 32% of the 14 million Americans who are unemployed had been jobless for a year or more. Today's report marks the 28th month where unemployment has been 9% or higher.
10.14.2011	The House Natural Resources Committee recently passed the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505]. This legislation addresses current limitations placed on the U.S. Border Patrol's access to federal lands located throughout the border region. Areas where the U.S. Border Patrol currently has limited access are among the most heavily trafficked along the border. H.R. 1505 is a necessary step toward gaining full operational control of the border. Several groups across the country have joined in support of the legislation. Here's what they're saying about H.R. 1505: National Association of Former Border Patrol Officers "This bill is brilliant in its simplicity and is written in such a manner that anyone can understand that its purpose is to send a resounding message that the people of the United States are serious about establishing complete border security." National Border Patrol Council "On behalf of the National Border Patrol Council which represents 17,000 Border Patrol Agents, we strongly support passage of H.R. 1505. For years, the federal government has used environmental regulations to block access for our Border Patrol agents to the over 20 million acres of federal land along the U.S./Mexican Border. This lack of access has resulted in an increase in criminal activities such as drug smuggling and human trafficking. It has also handicapped and endangered the Border Patrol Agents who are expected to secure these areas day in and day out. H.R. 1505 will give our Agents the tools they need to properly secure the border and protect themselves from criminals intent on doing harm." Local 2544 of the National Border Patrol Council- Tucson, Arizona "On behalf of the National Border Patrol Council Local 1544, which represents over 3,200 Border Patrol Agents in Tucson, Arizona Border Patrol Sector, we strongly support passage of H.R. 1505, the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act." National Association of Police Organizations "On behalf of the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO), representing 241,000 rank-and-file police officers from across the United States, I would like to advise you of our support for the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act (H.R. 1505). NAPO supports the efforts to enhance border security on federal lands thus making enforcement easier for agents. Currently, Border Patrol Agents are unable to access portions of the 20.7 million acres along our Southern borders and 1,000 miles of our Northern borders. H.R. 1505 allows authorization to the Secretary of Homeland Security to have access to any public lands managed by the Federal Government for the purpose of securing the border." Motorcycle Industry Council "An unsecured border that allows terrorists or other law-breakers to roam our public lands represents a real threat to riders who wish to responsibly recreate near these lands. H.R. 1505 would ensure that the Border Patrol has the necessary tools to secure our border and to help ensure the safety of riders." National Cattlemen's Beef Association "Cattlemen and their families and indeed all Americans living along the border live with the constant threat of danger. That threat is exacerbated by the misguided implementation of environmental regulations that hamstring US border patrol agents to effectively do their jobs Dangerous and aggressive drug and human traffickers coming across the border are usually armed and aren't afraid to harm ranchers who are only trying to go about their daily business. This bill would allow for the access and surveillance equipment border patrol agents need to protect these lands and our members. We thank Congressman Bishop for taking a stand on the side of America's ranchers and on the side of America's security." Public Lands Council "Our members along the southern border are suffering huge losses, including livestock weight loss, constant fence and waterline repairs, manmade fires that damage forage and infrastructure, and general harm to the range and the resources public lands ranchers manage. This isn't just costing our industry millions; it's costing lives. Congressman Bishop should be commended for leading the charge in the House to ensure our nation's border patrol is able to secure the border at the border. Public lands ranchers stand ready to help ensure this legislation becomes the law of the land." Jena Baker McNeill, Former Senior Policy Analyst, The Heritage Foundation "Without full access to border lands for the Border Patrol, no amount of manpower, weapons, or other technology will help get control of the border…Wouldn't it make more sense to give the Border Patrol full access so that lands are environmentally preserved and that Americans can safely enjoy them? Instead, without action, the Obama Administration is enticing lawbreakers to make these lands the next big corridor for smuggling…The National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act (HR 1505), would ‘prohibit the Department of Interior (DOI) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) from using environmental regulations to hinder U.S. Border Patrol from securing [the] border on federal lands.' Getting serious about drug trafficking and controlling the border requires better interagency cooperation than what is currently at work. If the Obama Administration is serious about getting control of the border, it should take a hard look at this problem." Supporters: Americans for Responsible Recreational Access BlueRibbon Coalition California Cattlemen's Association Local 2544 of the National Border Patrol Council- Tucson, Arizona Motorcycle Industry Council National Association of Former Border Patrol Officers National Association of Police Organizations National Border Patrol Council National Cattlemen's Beef Association Off-Road Business Association Public Lands Council Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association Save the Trails Specialty Equipment Market Association Specialty Vehicle Institute of America Stewards of the Sequoia United Four Wheel Drive Associations -30-
10.12.2011	U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Mike Lee (R-UT) and U.S. Congressmen Trent Franks (AZ-02), Rob Bishop (UT-01), Jeff Flake (AZ-06), Paul Gosar (AZ-01), David Schweikert (AZ-05) and Ben Quayle (AZ-03) today introduced the Northern Arizona Mining Continuity Act of 2011. This legislation will stop the U.S. Department of the Interior from banning mining in a vast area of Arizona, and killing jobs in the uranium mining industry. In a recent letter to Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, several members of Congress wrote in protest of the Secretary's proposed a one million acre withdrawal of mining rights. The members stated the withdrawal has nothing to do with protecting the Grand Canyon environment but is actually ‘de facto wilderness' for a region that conservationists previously agreed would remain accessible to the mining industry. The Interior Department's own environmental study on the proposed withdrawal found ‘no conclusive evidence' that modern-day mining operations in this area are harming the Grand Canyon watershed. The Northern Arizona Mining Continuity Act of 2011 would uphold the historic agreement embodied by the Arizona Wilderness Act of 1984 (AWA) that designated parts of the Arizona Strip as Wilderness and restored other lands to reasonable and safe uranium mining uses. The letter points out that the AWA "expressly refrained from banning mining on the Arizona Strip." "The Department's proposed mining withdrawal would kill hundreds of potential jobs to ‘save' the Grand Canyon from the same form of uranium mining that conservation groups once supported," said Senator McCain. "It also threatens to unravel the spirit of the Arizona Wilderness Act and will raise significant questions for future Wilderness bills if agreements to accommodate responsible land uses are neither genuine nor enduring." "Despite the fact that uranium mining efforts have for decades operated without impacting the environment or the beauty of our national parks, President Obama is nonetheless seeking to make 326-375 million pounds of the best quality uranium in the entire country off-limits, thus putting the desires of a handful of rabid environmentalists above America's long-term energy independence and national security," said Congressman Franks. "The Obama Administration continues to push policies that stifle American energy exploration and job creation," Senator Hatch said. "Through Utah and the West, there's an abundance of energy that would help fuel the economic recovery we so desperately need. This legislation ensures that these vital public lands are accessible to domestic energy producers so we can harness the nation's second largest domestic source of uranium ore." "This Department of Interior's decision to halt mining in this region is nothing more than a thinly veiled attempt to circumvent congress in order to create new de-facto wilderness areas. Blocking access to more than a third of the known U.S. uranium deposits would have a devastating impact on job creation and would increase our reliance on foreign sources of uranium. As it stands, we already depend on other countries for more than 90% of our uranium needs," said Congressman Rob Bishop. "This legislation will block yet another federal land grab and help ensure that we have access to our abundant domestic energy resources, which are essential to the future of this country." "After having his 'wild lands' policy resoundingly rejected by Utahns and other state and local officials, Secretary Salazar appears intent upon using whatever authority he can claim to lock up lands in the western states," said Senator Lee. "The withdrawal of one million acres of mining rights also reneges on a compromise between the federal government and the mining industry negotiated in good faith almost thirty years ago, setting an unwelcome precedent that could have future negative consequences. This legislation will stand as yet another rebuke of the administration's relentless pursuit of federal land grabs and reinforce the message that the people, not federal bureaucrats, should be the final authority on what happens to land within their state's borders." "Uranium mining in northern Arizona can create jobs and stimulate the region's economy without jeopardizing the splendor and natural beauty of the area, and that's why Arizona's federal, state, and local officials oppose a moratorium on such mining," said Congressman Flake. "It is important we focus on the facts surrounding mining in the Northern Arizona Mining district," said Congressman Gosar. "It is simply false and misleading to assert that if the Administration's withdrawal is not enacted, uranium mining will take place ‘in' the canyon or ‘in' the park. However without a doubt, if the Administration's proposed withdrawal is enacted, the potential for nearly $30 billion dollars of economic growth opportunities – nearly $700 million annually and over a thousand well paying jobs – will be eliminated. I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation, and I strongly support environmentally responsible development of our country's vast energy and mineral resources that will expand our domestic energy supply, create new American jobs, and lessen our dependence on foreign sources of energy and minerals." "At a time when we are desperate for jobs and economic growth, this Administration continues to do everything in its power to implement the job-killing policies of fringe environmental groups. This withdrawal is not so much a protection of the Grand Canyon, but a government land grab of economically fertile mining land," said Congressman Schweikert. "It is remarkable that we need legislation to force the Administration to stop such an unwarranted ban," said Congressman Quayle. "A study conducted by the same department that is proposing the mining withdrawal found ‘no conclusive evidence' that modern-day mining will cause any harm to the Grand Canyon region. Despite these findings, the Department of Interior is still pushing forward even though the ban will prevent the creation of thousands of potential Arizona jobs and economic growth for the state. The Administration is once again putting special interests ahead of job creation."
10.05.2011	The House Natural Resources Committee today passed the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505]. This legislation was introduced by National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) on April 13, 2011. The National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act addresses one of the prevailing factors preventing the U.S. from obtaining full operational control of the U.S./Mexico border. Currently, the United States Border Patrol is limited from fully accessing millions of acres of federally managed lands located throughout the border region. As a result, criminal drug and human smuggling organizations utilize these areas which provide them with nearly unfettered access into the United States. "As we work to gain full operational control of the border, it is essential that we examine where and why the highest levels of incursions are occurring. It's no surprise that public lands are at the top of the list and it makes absolutely no sense that our Border Patrol agents are limited from maintaining a routine presence in these areas," said Congressman Bishop. "I am pleased that today we are one step closer to providing them with the access they need to keep our country safe. We can no longer turn our backs on the violence, environmental degradation and rampant criminal activity occurring on our public lands. I look forward to working with my colleagues as this bill is considered further and ultimately brought to the floor of the House for a final vote." Specifically, the National Security and Federal Protection Act: Prohibits the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior and the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture from impeding, prohibiting or restricting the U.S. Border Patrol's efforts to gain full operational control within 100 miles of the U.S. border with Mexico and Canada Allows the Border Patrol access to public lands in order to conduct the following limited activities necessary to their border security operations: Construct and maintain roads Construct fences Use of vehicles for patrol Install, maintain, and operate surveillance equipment and sensors Use aircraft Deploy temporary tactical infrastructure, including forward operating bases Provides the Border Patrol with the same environmental waiver authority included in the Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 utilized by Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff during the 2008 construction of the fence along the U.S./Mexico border. In an effort to make additional improvements to the legislation, a series of amendments were adopted during the markup. Including: · A provision that removes the language that included "maritime" borders among the borders identified in the bill, therefore limiting the bill to the land borders with Mexico and Canada. · A clarification that protects existing legal uses of public lands, such as leases for grazing · An addition of a five-year sunset from the date of enactment of the bill
10.04.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced today that the full House Natural Resources Committee will hold a markup tomorrow on the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505]. Congressman Bishop introduced the legislation on April 13, 2011 in an effort to address the U.S. Border Patrol's limited access to millions of acres of federal lands located along the U.S. Border. "While I agree that the issue of illegal immigration must be addressed, we must first secure our borders. It makes absolutely no sense to bail water out of an overflowing tub before you turn off the faucet. H.R. 1505 addresses one of the prevailing challenges our country faces with regards to border security- the U.S. Border Patrol's inability to routinely access federally owned land located along the border. "Millions of acres of public land located throughout the border region are among the highest trafficked areas by drug and human smugglers. Cartel operations and other criminal entities know these areas are protected by onerous federal land management policies that prohibit the Border Patrol from maintaining a routine presence and therefore utilize them for travel into the U.S. We cannot secure the entire border unless the Border Patrol is granted access to these areas. Passing this legislation is an essential step that cannot be avoided in our efforts to secure the border, improve national security, and ultimately tackle the challenging issue of illegal immigration," said Congressman Bishop. Read more about H.R. 1505: Rep. Bishop Introduces Legislation to Bring Greater Security to U.S. Border and Federal Lands Groups Call for Passage of Republican Legislation to Enhance Border Security on Federal Lands VIDEO: Congressman Bishop and a Representative from the Center for Biological Diversity share their views on the issues concerning border security & public lands (Fox News) Issue overview and background documents WHAT: House Natural Resources Committee Markup on the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505] WHERE: 1324 Longworth House Office Building DATE: Wednesday, October 5, 2011 TIME: 10:00 a.m. EDT NOTE: The markup can be viewed live online here -30-
10.03.2011	Two bills authored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), the Utah National Guard Readiness Act [H.R. 686] and the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011[H.R. 765], passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives. Both bills must now be considered and passed by the U.S. Senate before they can be signed into law by the Presiden The Utah National Guard Readiness Act, cosponsored by both Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) and Congressman Jim Matheson (UT-02), identifies parcels of federally owned land located within Camp Williams that are necessary to support expanded development and use for future growth of the National Guard. This bill authorizes the transfer of the parcels to the state for use by the National Guard, which has identified these areas as a critical component of the Guard's ability to develop future training areas and buildings on Camp Williams. "Improved access within Camp Williams is essential to the Utah National Guard's ability to expand and grow in order to meet the needs of our state and country. I am pleased that my colleagues in the House recognize the importance of this legislation and passed it with overwhelming support. It is my hope that the Senate will do so as well," said Congressman Bishop. The Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011 amends the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 to allow permitting for year-round recreational activities in ski areas located on National Forest Service lands. The 1986 law currently states that only ski-related activities may occur in Forest Service ski areas. The proposed legislation would amend and update the law to include other recreational snow sports other than alpine and Nordic skiing, such as snowboarding. Additionally, the bill would authorize the Forest Service to allow year-round activities beyond the winter months, such as mountain biking and zip-lining. This legislation does not waive the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to allow for these new activities to take place. "The outdated National Forest Ski Area Permit Act hinders many ski areas that utilize public lands from offering year-round recreational opportunities. This legislation will improve access beyond the winter months, which in turn will bring added support to local economies that rely heavily upon recreation-based revenue," said Congressman Bishop.
09.26.2011	Today, more than 250 high school students from around Utah's First Congressional District will attend the 7th annual Education Conference held by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) at the Utah State Capitol. The conference provides students with an opportunity to expand on their current civics and government studies by engaging in discussions on topics regarding Congress, the legislative process, history and campaigns. "While I no longer report to a classroom each day, education continues to be among my highest priorities. Having served as both an educator and member of Congress, I realized that much of what we teach in text books does a good job at providing an overview of our government systems, but there are important components that could be expanded further. The education conference provides students with an opportunity to expand on their current studies by engaging in discussions that touch upon both the history of our country as well as current events," said Congressman Bishop. During the conference, students will participate in discussions about the history of all three branches of government, conduct case study sessions, and discuss and debate current policy issues being addressed by Congress. Students were selected by their teachers for attendance at this event. Invitations were sent to all high schools and school districts located in the First Congressional District. WHAT: Annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop WHERE: Utah State Capitol Complex 350 N. State Street Salt Lake City, UT 84114 DATE: Today, Monday, September 26, 2011 TIME: 9:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. MDT *This event is open to the media
09.23.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who served as an educator in Utah's public school system for 28 years, today decried President Obama's decision to allow states to have limited exemption from No Child Left Behind (NCLB) only if they agree to adopt a new set of mandates unilaterally created by the White House. "As a teacher, I am opposed to NCLB. On the surface, the President's decision to give states some relief from NCLB would appear to be a good thing. However, his decision to replace one set of mandates with another set of mandates does nothing to help empower states to address their unique educational needs. Giving states greater flexibility and autonomy, not more restrictive federal requirements that come with strings attached, is the only way forward."
09.22.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, today held a legislative hearing on the Action Plan for Public Lands & Education (APPLE) Act [H.R. 2852]. "Many Washington bureaucrats and lawmakers fail to recognize the unique challenges western states face due to the fact that they consist of millions of acres of untaxable federal land. Funding education is one of those challenges. More than 50% of the state of Utah consists of lands that produce zero property tax revenue. Utah isn't alone in this. In the West, one out of every two acres is owned by the federal government," said Congressman Bishop. "While educators and administrators do the very best they can with the resources they have available, educational opportunities for our children should not be hurt by the West's absentee landlord- the federal government." Tax revenue generated from private property is one of the greatest contributors to public education funding. However, states like Utah that consist of more than 57% federal lands find themselves at a severe disadvantage when it comes to generating funding for education. Schools in the West have some of the highest student to teacher ratios and have seen the smallest increases in per pupil spending due to the difficulty they have in generating tax revenue. The APPLE Act would help Utah and other public lands states address education funding shortages. "When western states joined the union the federal government agreed to help offset the lack of education funding that could otherwise be generated if the public lands were held privately. The APPLE Act helps ensure that the federal government makes good on their commitments," Bishop added. The APPLE Act was introduced on September 07, 2011 by Congressman Bishop. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced companion legislation [S. 1524] in the Senate. Specifically, the bill authorizes western states to select five percent of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service lands within their state to be sold or leased, with the generated revenue dedicated solely to public education. Wilderness areas designated by Congress, trust lands, National Historic Sites or lands located within a military reservation area are excluded from lands that may be selected by the States. "The APPLE Act addresses one of the many unique challenges facing western states," Senator Hatch said. "The vast amount of public land in Utah has hampered the funding for Utah's education system. This bill will allow us to expand our tax base and provide a significant source of revenue for Utah's schools. I'll continue to push for the Senate to follow Congressman Bishop's strong leadership on this issue and move forward with this legislation soon." Click here to view the presentation on the APPLE Act presented by Congressman Bishop during the hearing.
09.16.2011	During a press conference held today to recognize the 224th Anniversary of the signing of the U.S. Constitution, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), along with other members of the 10th Amendment Task Force, rolled out a legislative package consisting of 10 bills aimed at restoring fundamental tenets of the Constitution and specifically, the 10th Amendment. "Our founding fathers foresaw the potential for the federal government to expand beyond its intended purpose and therefore provided us with the 10th Amendment. This essential tool was meant to safeguard against the kind of federal overreach we have today. However, for several decades the federal government has conveniently ignored the 10th Amendment, siphoning power away from states in order to consolidate it in Washington," said Congressman Bishop. "In recognition of Constitution Day and the vision set forth by our founding fathers, we are highlighting 10 legislative proposals aimed at improving the balance of power between states and the federal government. The bills featured today reduce federal overreach and allow states and local economies to have greater autonomy over how to best address their unique needs. The federal government is not the solution to all of the problems facing this country and if we are truly going to get our economy back on track we must empower the states." The 10 following bills were included in the package highlighted during today's press conference. 1. H.J.Res.62: The Repeal Amendment Brief Description: Constitutional amendment that authorizes the repeal of any federal law or regulation when the legislatures of two-thirds of the States approve resolutions that describe the federal provision to be repealed. Sponsor: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) 2. H.R.1683: State Flexibility Act Brief Description: The bill would repeal federal Maintenance of Effort (MOE) laws – first established in the Stimulus law of 2009 – that prevent states from making changes to their Medicaid programs, effectively tying the hands of Governors during tough economic times. Sponsor: Rep. Phil Gingrey H.R. 2917: Restoration of State Sovereignty Act of 2011 Brief Description: Empowers States by giving them the opportunity to accept or reject federal grant money. Grant money rejected by State legislatures would be dedicated to paying off our outstanding national debt and deficit. Sponsor: Congressman John A. Culberson (TX-07) H.R. 2916: Tenth Amendment Enforcement Act Brief Description: Reaffirms each State's autonomous sovereign police powers under the Tenth Amendment to preserve and protect the safety, security, and property of its citizens without interference from Federal authorities. Sponsor: Congressman John A. Culberson (TX-07) 5. H.R.1737: The Surface Transportation and Taxation Equity Act or State Act Brief Description: The STATE Act returns primary responsibility for transportation and infrastructure projects back to the states without any additional cost to the taxpayer. This legislation would increase the revenue available to States while enabling them to prioritize projects based on safety, traffic needs, and improved commerce without being subject to federal mandates. The STATE Act accomplishes this by granting states the ability to opt out of the federal transportation program through increasing their gas taxes while simultaneously reducing the federal gas tax by the same amount. Sponsor: Rep. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) 6. H.R. 1585: The State Transportation Flexibility Act Brief Description: This bill would give states the option to keep the funds they would otherwise be forced to contribute to the Federal-aid Highway Program and the Mass Transit Account (MTA). If a state chooses to opt-out of these programs, they would be able to collect, remit and manage their own gas tax dollars. Sponsor: Rep. Lankford (OK-05) 7. H.R. 2514: The Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success Act or A-PLUS Act Brief Description: This legislation would allow states to enter into a five-year performance agreement with the U.S. Secretary of Education, allowing states complete autonomy to improve and enhance their education system without federal interference. Sponsor: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) 8. H.R.___: Local Education Authority Returns Now Act Brief Description: Requires the Secretary of Education to determine credits due to states as opt-out state education amounts. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual taxpayers in states that opt-out a refundable tax credit for a share of the opt-out amount creditable to such states. Sponsor: Rep. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) 9. H.R.455: 10th Amendment Regulatory Reform Act Brief Description: Provides State officials with special standing to challenge proposed federal agency rules and regulations, and for other purposes. Further, the legislation calls for expedited review of district court rulings in the US Court of Appeals. Sponsor: Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) 10.H.R.1047: The State Right to Vote Act Brief Description: Amends the National Labor Relations Act to clarify that State-approved legislation or Constitutional amendments insuring secret union ballots are appropriate exercises of State's congressionally approved authority. The legislation also prohibits federal agencies from bringing a challenge against a State statute or constitutional provision which protects the right of employees to choose labor organization representatives through secret ballot elections. Sponsor: Rep. Jeff Duncan (SC-03)
09.15.2011	This Saturday, September 17, 2011 is Constitution Day, marking 224 years since the signing of the U.S. Constitution. House Republicans have brought a renewed focus on the Constitution to Washington this year. In recognition of these efforts and of Constitution Day, Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Jim Jordan (OH-04), 10th Amendment Task Force co-founder Rob Bishop (UT-01), along with other RSC and10th Amendment Task Force members will hold a press conference today, Thursday, September 15th. The 10th Amendment Task force will also be highlighting a legislative package consisting of 10 bills aimed at restoring the fundamental principles of the Constitution and 10th Amendment. The 10 bills being introduced by the 10th Amendment Task Force address one of the greatest challenges facing today's struggling economy and states' inability to create much needed jobs - burdensome government interference. In honor of the 224th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution, the RSC and the 10th Amendment Task Force are taking steps to restore a proper balance of power as our founders intended. WHO: RSC Chairman Jim Jordan (OH-04), Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Congressman Scott Garrett (JN-05), Congressman John Culberson (TX-07), Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11) WHAT: Press conference recognizing Constitution Day and to outline a legislative packaged aimed at dispersing centralized power in Washington back to the states and people. WHERE: Studio B, House Radio and TV Gallery DATE: TODAY-Thursday, September 15, 2011 TIME: 11:00 a.m. EDT
09.14.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today lauded the Administration's announcement that NASA has settled on plans for the replacement to the now retired space shuttle. The announcement made today confirms that Alliant Techsystems (ATK)-produced solid rocket boosters will, in fact, be an essential component of the new plan to launch a test flight into low earth orbit by 2017. ATK has facilities located in Northern Utah. "While today's announcement is welcome news, I remain very concerned that, under the current Administration, much uncertainty remains with regards to the future of NASA and its commitment to manned space travel. However, today's announcement does help address some of the looming uncertainty that has been surrounding NASA's commitment to any future manned space exploration. I am pleased that the Administration and NASA have finally settled on a plan for the immediate future. Allowing our leadership in space exploration to lapse is detrimental not only to the future of space exploration but also to our missile defense capabilities. I am proud that ATK's impressive record of success and many contributions to advancements in space exploration have been recognized and that they will continue to play a pivotal role in future exploration of the cosmos," said Bishop.
09.13.2011	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, will hold a hearing that, among many things, will examine the Utah Lands Sovereignty Act H.R. 2147- legislation that will prevent the Administration from using the Antiquities Act to unilaterally designate new national monuments in the state. The Utah Lands Sovereignty Act was introduced on June 14, 2011 by Congressman Bishop and Congressman Chaffetz. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Hatch and Senator Lee. In 1950, Congress passed a law that prohibited the future establishment of national monuments in Wyoming except as authorized by Congress. H.R. 2147 would provide Utah with the same level of protection. "The Treasured Landscapes memo served as a canary in a coal mine, lifting the veil off the disingenuous agenda hatched by the current Administration to unilaterally lock up millions of acres throughout the West from multiple-use. Using the Antiquities Act would allow the Administration to circumvent the open congressional process, a necessary component of all new lands designations," said Congressman Bishop. "The congressional process helps ensure that the livelihoods of communities, residents, businesses and stakeholders are examined and thoughtfully considered before new public land designations are made." Last year, Congressman Bishop obtained a leaked copy of an internal Department of Interior memo titled "Treasured Landscapes" that lists as many as 14 possible new national monuments, two of which are located in Utah. In total, the memo, which has since generated a groundswell of opposition across the West, identifies as many as 13 million acres of federally owned land and approximately 26 million acres of private land as areas that could potentially be subject to national monument designations. "Radical special interest groups continue to push the administration to use the Antiquities Act. Recently former DOI Secretary Bruce Babbitt urged the Administration to use the Antiquities Act as a tool to lock up millions of acres of public lands. In light of these ongoing efforts, it is essential that Utah and other western states put in place a measure similar to that of Wyoming to ensure that the Antiquities Act cannot be used to destroy livelihoods in an effort to fulfill political agendas."
09.12.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, has introduced the Utah Lands Sovereignty Act, which would protect Utah from future national monument designations made by Presidential executive order. Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) co-sponsored the bill and Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Mike Lee (R-UT) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. In 1950, Congress passed a law that prohibited the future establishment of national monuments in Wyoming except as authorized by Congress. This legislation would provide Utah with the same level of protection. Last year, Congressman Bishop obtained the internal Treasured Landscapes memo created by the Department of Interior that lists as many as 14 possible new national monuments, two of which are located in Utah. In total, the memo, which has since generated a groundswell of opposition across the West, identifies as many as 13 million acres of federally owned land and approximately 26 million acres of private land as areas that could potentially be subject to national monument designations. "We have seen far too many attempts by this Administration to circumvent the open congressional process in order to execute their political agenda— the Treasured Landscapes memo is just one of the many examples. While I'm not necessarily opposed to national monuments, I do not support efforts to create new designations, locking up thousands of acres of land, without the support of our local communities, residents and stakeholders," said Congressman Bishop. "Last week's remarks made by former DOI Secretary Bruce Babbitt are a reminder that the Antiquities Act is still being considered as an avenue to lock up millions of acres of public lands. It is clear that former Secretary Babbitt isn't in the business of protecting hard-working Utahns, and is instead looking to fulfill the agendas of a handful of radical special interest groups. This legislation provides a necessary safeguard to protect Utah from future national monument designations made through executive fiat." During a press conference held on June 08, 2011, former Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Bruce Babbitt suggested that the President use the Antiquities Act as executive fiat to pressure Congress into implementing restrictive new land management policies. Babbitt stated that, "By voicing his willingness to use the Antiquities Act as an alternative to Wilderness designation, the president can bring Congress to the table to work out conservation measures acceptable to reasonable stakeholders." He went on to say that, "the best way to defend the Antiquities Act is for the president to use it." [read the entire transcript here] "Utahns are all too familiar with the consequences of presidential administrations creating national monuments without public input or congressional approval. We have been living with lost jobs, economic inactivity and other fallout from the creation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument since 1996. National monuments should not be created in secrecy and without the consent of Congress, this bill will ensure that they won't here in Utah," said Senator Hatch. "The Antiquities Act is a misguided and outdated law that lends itself to abuse by the Executive Branch. The Utah Lands Sovereignty Act improves the law to ensure local input is considered. Decisions regarding control of our public lands rightfully belong to those closest to the situation and those most likely to be impacted. Management of our public lands must reside in the hands of elected officials who are accountable to their local constituencies. Congressional, state, and local leaders are the ones best equipped to manage these precious resources, and to make decisions regarding their future," said Congressman Chaffetz. "Proponents who have abused the system suggest Utah is being ‘honored' with national monument designations. Frankly, Utah has been ‘honored' enough. We lost nearly 2 million acres when the Clinton Administration created the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument without any input from Congress or state officials. This bill will prevent that from happening again," said Senator Lee. The 1906 Antiquities Act allows the President to unilaterally designate new national monuments through executive order. This legislation would ensure that all future national monument designations in Utah are subject to the open Congressional process, which would provide Utahns and other westerners with the opportunity to have their voices heard. Former President Bill Clinton used the Antiquities Act in 1996 to unilaterally designate the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah without ever consulting the public or state, local and federal officials. The total number of acres targeted as possible new national monuments in the Treasured Landscapes memo is more than the states of Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware and Rhode Island combined. Connecticut: 3, 548,160 acres New Jersey: 5, 582,080 acres Delaware: 1, 250,560 acres Rhode Island: 988, 800 acres Total: 11, 369, 600 acres
09.10.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement today in remembrance of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: "Although Utah is thousands of miles from New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C., the attacks on September 11th touched each and every one of our lives. As we look back on the tragic events that occurred that day, we mourn the unnecessary loss of so many lives and remember the selfless acts of heroism made by so many. The overwhelming grief felt across the country brought our nation closer together and developed a renewed sense of national pride that continues today. On this 10 year anniversary of the attacks, we remember all those who lost their lives, pay tribute to the many individuals who risked their lives to help others, and give thanks to our fellow citizens who continue to make sacrifices so that we may live in a free and safe world."
09.08.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's remarks on unemployment and the struggling economy: "Like many Utahns and other Americans across the country, I join in the shared frustration over hearing the President deliver yet another speech filled with empty rhetoric and propaganda about how we should pursue many of the failed economic policies that have already proven to be the wrong direction for this country. The President again failed to recognize that the greatest thing the federal government can do to foster growth in our economy is to get out of the way. "However, I am encouraged that the Administration appears to recognize the importance of implementing and supporting free market principles including tax cuts and reduced spending and am willing to give consideration and further review to a few proposals presented tonight. I am looking forward to seeing them in totality when the actual bill comes before Congress. "In addition, the President must not be clear of how school systems work. His school construction concept (and probable grants plan) will not create more teaching jobs. One reason is because the federal government has no mechanism to fairly distribute federal money to the states for education. That is why Utah is constantly disadvantaged every time a new scheme for schools rolls out of Washington. This Administration's education schemes have all been non-starters or heavily biased toward pro-eastern states/urban areas. I heard nothing from the President tonight to indicate he understands this reality. "This country cannot be the guinea pig on which this Administration tests out its economic policies only to realize that many of them won't actually work. We already endured that during the failed stimulus, which the Obama administration claimed would ‘save or create' 3 to 4 million jobs. In reality, more than 1.4 million jobs have been lost since March 2009."
09.08.2011	Today, members of the Utah Congressional delegation sent a letter to Secretary Ken Salazar expressing their unified opposition to the Department of Interior's latest attempt to include Utah lands in a comprehensive wilderness designation report to Congress. The letter was sent in response to Secretary Salazar's June 10, 2011 letter to each member of the Utah delegation. In his letter, the Secretary asked the delegation to identify "BLM-managed public lands where there is strong support in the local community and among elected officials for permanent protection, and that you believe are ready for designation as Wilderness by this Congress." According to the letter, identified lands would be included in an October 15, 2011 report to Congress. A similar letter was sent on June 19, 2011 by Utah BLM State Director Juan Palma to county leaders throughout the state of Utah. To date, twenty-two counties, representing 99% of BLM land in Utah, have replied to Director Palma expressing their unified desire to not be included in the Department's final report. Copies of these letters were sent to the Utah Congressional delegation. In response to the overwhelming opposition from locally elected county officials, the Utah delegation sent the attached letter to reaffirm the county's stated opposition to the "Bipartisan Wilderness Agenda". "I do not oppose wilderness," said Congressman Chaffetz. "I support a collaborative, locally driven process of determining land-use designations. The Secretary's recent outreach was appreciated, but his approach was not embraced by Utahns. Utah land should not be included in the Department's report. A process for resolving land-use issues is already underway in the state. I support this county-by-county process and will continue to work with all stakeholders, including Secretary Salazar when appropriate, on crafting solutions." "Utah is a beautiful place with some areas that truly should be protected," said Senator Hatch. "But there are also places that don't merit wilderness designation. It is the responsibility of Congress to determine what those areas are. I have been working for years with state and county leaders to identify areas to protect and areas that can be used for other things like ATV recreation and oil and gas development. We don't need this administration making any more recommendations on how to do our job. We are doing fine." "The message from Utah's federal, state, and local officials could not be clearer," said Senator Lee. "We are not interested in the federal government mandating how Utahns can and cannot use their land. The extent to which the land should be managed should be determined by the citizens of Utah, not by bureaucrats in Washington." "In order to ensure that the interests and livelihoods of all residents and stakeholders are considered and protected, new land use designations such as wilderness should be initiated at the local level and not out of pressure from Washington. While I appreciate Salazar's willingness to abandon the terrible Wild Lands proposal, we're still going to insist that local communities be fully supportive of wilderness designations. Wilderness is attainable but it also has to be considered with other factors and uses of the land in mind. That consideration and coordination is best done at the local level with those who are impacted most. I join with others in having serious concerns with any efforts to identify new wilderness areas out of executive directive rather than local interest," said Congressman Bishop, who serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources subcommittee that oversees public lands. "I support wilderness proposals that are the result of a grassroots, stakeholder-driven process, which takes time and effort by many participants. In Utah, several such efforts are underway but they cannot be rushed. My experience with the Washington County lands bill has shown me that putting an artificial deadline on the process, such as the one proposed by the Department of Interior, is not conducive to a successful outcome. Utah will be ready when the stakeholders reach consensus," Congressman Matheson said.
09.08.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) have introduced the Action Plan for Public Land and Education (APPLE) Act in the Senate [S. 1524] and U.S. House of Representatives [H.R. 2852]. This legislation would help Utah and other Western states address education funding shortages created largely by abundant federal land holdings throughout the West. States cannot tax public lands held by the federal government and therefore cannot produce revenue from them necessary to support education. As a result, many western states with significant amounts of federal land continue to struggle to adequately fund education. "Like many states, Utah's education system relies on tax revenues for funding each year. However, due to the overwhelming presence of federal land in the state, there is a significant lack of tax revenue that could otherwise be generated if this land was not locked up by the feds. The better and long-term solution is to empower states to generate that revenue by giving them the lands the federal government promised in the first place, when western states joined the Union," said Congressman Bishop. "The education of our children should not be held hostage by the burdensome presence of federal land in our state. The APPLE Act would help ensure that Utah and other western states receive the necessary funding to provide all children with the highest educational opportunities." "Funding for Utah's education system has historically been hampered by the presence of a large portion of public lands owned by the federal government," stated Senator Hatch. "The APPLE Act would allow Utah, and other western states impacted by federal land ownership to identify five percent of its federal lands and transfer these lands to state control to be used to help fund education. This would be a significant source of revenue for Utah's schools and a major step forward in ensuring our children continue to have a bright educational future." Specifically, the APPLE Act would authorize western states to select five percent of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service lands within their state to be sold or leased, with the generated revenue dedicated solely to public education. Wilderness areas designated by Congress, trust lands, National Historic Sites or lands located within a military reservation area are excluded from lands that may be selected by the States. Did you know that: · The federal government currently owns roughly 660 million acres in the United States. · Nearly one out of every two acres in the West is owned and controlled by the federal government. · Over 90% of all federal land is located in the West. · An area larger than the size of Florida has been added to the federal estate since John. F. Kennedy was president.
08.30.2011	With the U.S. House of Representatives out of session for the August District Work Period, First District Congressman Rob Bishop announced this week a series of three town hall meetings in northern Utah. Representative Bishop, who serves on the powerful House Rules Committee, will spend consecutive days meeting and talking with voters in Cache, Davis, and Weber Counties. The details of the gatherings, to which all the public are invited, are below: CACHE TOWN HALL MEETING Wednesday, August 31 7:00 p.m. – 8:15 p.m. Hyrum City Hall 83 W. Main Street Hyrum, UT DAVIS TOWN HALL MEETING Thursday, September 1 6:15 p.m. – 7:15 p.m. Farmington Community Ctr. 120 S. Main Street Farmington, UT WEBER TOWN HALL MEETING Thursday, September 1 8:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. Riverdale Senior Ctr. 4433 South 900 West Riverdale, UT The open-forum, general issue meetings, which the former high school teacher has hosted since first being elected, provide Congressman Bishop with an opportunity to keep voters informed on his activities in Washington and give constituents a chance to share their thoughts and concerns. The GOP lawmaker has conducted well over a hundred of these town hall events in his district over the past few years. ###
08.08.2011	Today, House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) announced that they have directed the Clerk of the House and other House officials to take the steps necessary to conclude the House Page Program. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) is one of four Members of Congress who serve on the Page Board. In response to today's announcement, Rep. Bishop issued the following statement: "I am sorry to see this historic program come to a close, however, the reality is that advancements in technology have drastically reduced the need that once existed for House Pages. Over the years, this program has provided thousands of students with a unique educational opportunity that allowed them to actively participate in the daily operations within the U.S. House of Representatives. While it is disappointing that this historic House tradition is ending, we will work to find new and innovative ways to ensure that students remain engaged with work of Congress." To read more on this bipartisan announcement click here.
08.01.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today voted in favor of the Budget Control Act [S. 365-as amended], which cuts and caps federal spending while ensuring that the U.S. does not enter into default. "I applaud the Speaker for his efforts to avoid a default with real spending cuts and without raising taxes. This was a defeat for the President. However, I was concerned with last minute changes to the bill that could lead to devastating defense cuts. Defense is one of our few constitutional obligations. Therefore, I withheld my full support of this legislation. "I supported both previous Republican measures. However, changes made this weekend to the previous proposal could have a detrimental impact on our defense capabilities, including some based in Utah. While I would have preferred that we made deeper cuts in non-defense spending, this bill still takes steps in the right direction. I will now work to ensure that we do not harm our military capabilities. "If we are ever really going to control spending, we must acknowledge that right now, Washington does too much and spends too much beyond its constitutional obligations. Washington cannot be the solution for everything. As we continue to cut spending and implement new reforms, we must disperse power back to the people and the states. It's not just that Washington spends too much money, it's that we spend money on too much. Federalism is the only solution that provides long-term fiscal reforms necessary to get our country back on track."
07.30.2011	"My thoughts and prayers are with Norm and his family at this time of loss. Colleen was a brilliant ambassador for the state of Utah and set the standard for first ladies in our state. She was a dedicated public servant who worked tirelessly to make the world a better place. She touched so many lives in Utah. I am a better person for having known her."
07.29.2011	To reduce spending and avoid default, the U.S. House of Representatives today approved the Budget Control Act (S. 627- as amended). Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted in support of this legislation, which would cut and cap spending immediately and save nearly a trillion dollars without raising taxes. In addition to cutting more than $900 billion in spending, the bill guarantees that the House and Senate must vote on and pass a Balanced Budget Amendment before the debt limit can be fully increased. Congressman Bishop has been a consistent supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment. The legislation creates a joint House and Senate committee to find at least an additional $1.6 trillion in savings. The work-product of this bipartisan, bicameral committee would be provided expedited consideration in the House and Senate and could not be filibustered. In response to the passage of S. 627 in the House of Representatives, Congressman Bishop released the following statement: "This legislation, while far from perfect, makes substantial cuts to spending over the next 10 years, caps spending levels and requires that a balanced budget amendment be passed. In addition, it ensures that the federal government is able to meet its financial commitments, avoiding a default. While this bill is different than the Cut, Cap and Balance Act, it includes the fundamental principles necessary to help get our country's fiscal house back in order. "Last week I supported the Cut, Cap, and Balance proposal, which Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid said would never see a vote in the Senate. While I would still prefer that Cut, Cap, and Balance be the proposal considered by the Senate, and ultimately signed into law by the President, Democrats continue to block it from even being considered. "The Republican proposal passed today is an honest, straightforward commitment to reduce spending and hold the line on new taxes and spending. While the President continues to insist that tax increases be a part of the final proposal that reaches his desk, he has failed to convince even his own party that tax increases are a good idea. In a perfect world, this bill would include deeper cuts to spending and go even further to create stricter accountability on spending caps. It's not enough yet, but I will work to ensure that we cut and cap as much and as frequently as we can. We didn't get into this mess overnight, and it's simply unrealistic to think that we can fix the problem with just one bill. However, we are making real progress and this proposal helps set us on the path to real reform. "The fact that President Obama, Senator Reid, and every single Democrat in the House oppose this legislation is evidence that it's likely a step in the right direction."
07.21.2011	"When Atlantis touched ground this morning, the United States' era of manned space flight essentially came to a screeching halt. The Space Shuttle Program is an important part of our nation's history and I am proud that so many Utahns helped make possible this proud American legacy," said Congressman Bishop. "It is troubling that the Obama Administration has left our country with no capability or plan to transport humans into space in the near future, essentially turning the clocks back on 50 years of advancements in space exploration. Thanks to the President, we will now be relying on the Russians to transport our astronauts into space and Russia has wasted no time gloating over this fact. It's like witnessing Sputnik all over again."
07.20.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011 [H.R. 2560]. This legislation, introduced by Representative Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) and co-sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), includes strategic reforms aimed at curtailing the irresponsible spending practices that have plagued Washington for decades. "Before an increase to the debt limit can occur, Congress must commit to implement enforceable restrictions that place long-term limits on federal spending. The Cut, Cap, and Balance Act is the right first step toward doing just that. It's time that the federal government start spending less and planning sensibly for the future like so many Utah families have done to weather these tough economic times. It is my hope that the President and Democrat controlled Senate will uphold the will of the people and pass this legislation. I hope they recognize that tax increases and raising the debt limit without implementing reforms to spending place an undue burden on American taxpayers who already shoulder the burden of decades of irresponsible spending in Washington. It is time for Harry Reid and Barack Obama to do what is right for this country, not just their own personal political agendas," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011 · Cuts non-defense discretionary spending by $111 billion in FY 2012. · Puts into place statutory, enforceable spending caps over the next 10 years bringing spending into line with the historic average of 20% of GDP by 2021. · Requires passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment before the debt limit can be increased. During debate on the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act, Congressman Bishop delivered remarks highlighting the importance of not only cutting spending but limiting the power of the federal government as the Founding Fathers intended in the 10th Amendment. click here to view remarks
07.15.2011	Today, Republicans in the House of Representatives introduced the Cut, Cap and Balance Act [H.R. 2560]. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), a staunch supporter of reforming government, cutting spending and balancing the budget, signed on as one of the first co-sponsors of the legislation. The House is expected to vote on the bill next week. The Cut, Cap and Balance Act would immediately cut federal spending, place a cap on the amount that the federal government can spend each year, and would require the approval of a balanced budget amendment before the debt limit can be increased. "I am pleased to be a sponsor of the Cut, Cap and Balance Act, which would implement reasonable changes that are necessary to reverse the downward spiral of deficit spending. Other than raising taxes, the President is refusing to offer a serious or specific plan to address the budget crisis. However, I, along with my fellow Republicans in the House, are committed to changing spending practices in Washington. The debate over the debt ceiling will certainly not be the exception to that commitment," said Congressman Bishop. "If there is going to be an increase in the debt limit, it absolutely needs to be tied to significant spending cuts and major reforms to the way Washington works. There has been plenty of talk and ideas thrown around, but now that we have a legitimate proposal on the table that would do those things, it is time to move forward and pass this bill." Specifically, the legislation: · Cuts total spending by $111 billion in FY 2012, reducing non-defense discretionary spending below 2008 levels. · Puts into place statutory, enforceable caps over the next 10 years to ratchet down the amount the government is allowed to spend each year, bringing spending into line with the historic average of 20% of GDP by 2021. · Requires passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment in order to raise the debt limit. It provides that the president can request a debt ceiling increase only if a qualifying Balanced Budget Amendment passes Congress and is sent to the states for ratification. "We need to cut spending this year, cap the growth of government going forward, and balance our budgets," Bishop added. "This bill helps achieve those goals and will help spur job creation and get our economy moving again." Since President Obama took office on January 20, 2009, the national debt has increased by $3.7 trillion. To put that in perspective, it took the U.S. from 1776 until 1992 to accumulate the same amount of debt that President Obama and Democrats in Congress accumulated in two and a half years.
07.14.2011	This week, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who served as an educator in the Utah public school system for 28 years, introduced the Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success Act (A-PLUS) [H.R. 2514]. This legislation would allow states to enter into a five-year performance agreement with the U.S. Secretary of Education, allowing states complete autonomy to improve and enhance their education system without federal interference. "Since the federal government got involved in education over 45 years ago with the creation of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, there is little evidence to prove that education provided today is any better off now than it was in 1965. Over nearly five decades schools have gradually lost their autonomy and flexibly to meet the unique needs of their student population," said Congressman Bishop. H.R. 2514 would exempt states from federal education programs and allow federal education funds to be block granted for any lawful education purpose the states deem beneficial. This allows states to opt out of the prescriptive programmatic requirements of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and use funding in a way that will best meet their students' needs. "Education is not something that can be addressed on a one-size-fits-all approach. Right now, federal mandates and regulations are limiting each state's ability to provide innovative reforms necessary to meet diverse educational needs," Bishop added. Under this bill, a state must have the approval of at least two out of three state entities on their proposed performance agreement submitted by the state, such as the Governor, state legislature, and state education agency. Under the five-year performance agreement, states must demonstrate increased academic achievement. "The A-Plus Act would return accountability back to states, school districts, educators and parents. This local control will allow each community to assess and address their unique educational requirements, ensuring that the needs of all students are met," Bishop concluded. "Maintaining the status quo is failing our children. This legislation would give educators and parents the flexibility necessary to make the changes this country needs." -30-
07.14.2011	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands held an oversight hearing on the Secure Rural Schools Act and the decline in funds available to fund education in America's rural communities. "Over the years, federal policies, court rulings, and a general lack of understanding about the impact of public lands on schools and education have drastically eroded a once viable timber industry. Increasing management and multiple-use of our forest resources is the only practical option to ensuring that the federal government can meet its obligations and provide certainty to our rural schools and communities," Bishop added. The Secure Rural Schools Program was created in 2000 as a temporary funding measure to assist rural communities suffering from federal policies that hindered timber production. The Secure Rural Schools and Communities Self-Determination Act of 2000 is set to expire September 2011. Secure Rural Schools was not intended to be a long-term entitlement program but rather to provide short-term assistance to ensure that schools and education did not suffer from the faltering timber industry. "For more than a decade, the Secure Rural Schools Program has provided a safety net for rural communities in response to the federal government's inability to manage the land and resources it took over more than a century ago," said Congressman Bishop. It was the intent of Congress in establishing the National Forests that they would be managed in a sustained multiple-use manner in perpetuity, and that they would provide revenues for local counties and the federal treasury in perpetuity as well. The only long-term solution to ensure that communities and schools continue to receive adequate funding is to fundamentally and structurally change current forest management policies that will enable communities to ramp up timber harvest. This is especially true given today's current budget crisis. "In an effort to address the challenges many timber-dependent communities are currently facing, Congress must examine the policies currently hindering production and multiple use of our forest resources. Secure Rural Schools funds are essentially hush monies paid to communities in exchange for not being able to use their lands," Bishop concluded. "Today's hearing was the first of many steps that will be taken in Congress to address this problem."
07.13.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives considered the Clean Water Cooperative Federalism Act of 2011 [H.R. 2018]. This legislation would restore a system of cooperative federalism established under the Clean Water Act (CWA) where primary responsibilities for water pollution control are allocated to the states not the federal government. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the bill. Specifically, the bill limits the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from delaying a state's permitting and water quality certification decisions under the CWA once the EPA has already approved a state's program. Additionally, H.R. 2018 will help prevent the EPA from advancing its one-size-fits-all agenda. "Under the current Administration the EPA has been overzealous in its efforts to undermine states' shared regulatory authority, which continues to hinder economic growth in the U.S. The uncertainty surrounding the regulatory climate in states discourages job creation and unnecessarily contributes to the challenges so many small and large businesses are facing today. This legislation upholds the fundamental principles of federalism found in the 10th Amendment by restoring the proper balance of authority between states and the federal government," said Congressman Bishop. Click here to watch Rep. Bishop's remarks on H.R. 2018
07.12.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today considered the Better Use of Light Bulbs Act [H.R. 2417], which repeals sections of a 2007 energy bill that essentially banned the use of incandescent light bulbs by 2012. Today's legislation was originally introduced on January 5, 2011 as H.R. 91 and included Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) as a co-sponsor. The Better Use of Light Bulbs Act was reintroduced on July 7, 2011 and amended to include provisions that raised concerns about the 10th Amendment. Specifically, the new provisions would prohibit states from creating their own policies regarding efficiency standards for light bulbs. While Congressman Bishop does not support federal mandates dictating lighting efficiency standards for the entire country, he opted not to support the modified legislation noting that it unnecessarily undermines federalist principles by limiting states' ability to implement policies that reflect the interest and needs of their unique populous. "I co-sponsored the initial Better Use of Light Bulbs Act because the federal government has absolutely no business mandating what types of light bulbs we may or may not use. I was eager to join the effort to repeal this egregious example of federal government overreach. However, I'm afraid the sections that were added to this legislation include unnecessary language that preempts the prerogatives and sovereignty of the states. Just because the federal government thinks it can impose new regulations on states, doesn't mean it always should," said Congressman Bishop. "While I agree that it may be unwise for a state to restrict the choice of a product such as a light bulb, the 10th Amendment was designed to ensure states have the power to implement policies that reflect the specific needs and interests of the people. This modified version infringes on that power and therefore I could not support this bill." -30-
07.08.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement regarding NASA's final launch of the space shuttle. "Today marks the bittersweet end of an era. For nearly 50 years the U.S. has been the global leader in space exploration and I am proud that so many Utahns have been part of this great American legacy. The final launch of the space shuttle closes a chapter on five decades of advancements and discoveries made possible through our exploration of the cosmos and reminds us of the critical role that manned space travel has had in our nation's history. "We are at a monumental crossroads in our nation's role as leaders in space exploration. For the first time in nearly 50 years the United States has no immediate capability to put a human into space. By cancelling the Constellation program without a comprehensive alternative, the President and leaders at the highest levels of his Administration have demonstrated that they are either unwilling or unable to do what is necessary to ensure that we retain our leadership in space exploration. The lack of leadership throughout the Administration has not only returned our nation to the pre-Sputnik era by relying on Russia to transport our astronauts at the astronomical cost of $50 million each, it has placed our missile defense capabilities at risk. "While the Administration attempts to spin the realities of its failures, the United States will be forced to watch as other countries assume the role as leaders in manned space travel. I remember the day we first put a man on the moon and the pride that our nation felt over that remarkable accomplishment. I will continue to fight to ensure that we continue to build upon the innovative and scientific advancements made possible through manned space exploration."
07.07.2011	On Friday, July 8th Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, will hold a legislative hearing on H.R. 1505, the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act. Bishop introduced the bill on April 14, 2011. Environmental regulations are currently preventing the U.S. Border Patrol from maintaining a routine presence on portions of the 20.7 million acres of federal land located along the southern U.S. border region as well as 1,000 miles along the U.S. Canada border. Subsequently, these areas have suffered severe environmental degradation and have become overrun with criminal activity, including drug trafficking, human smuggling and illegal immigration. The lawlessness occurring on public lands is due largely in part to environmental policies created and enforced by federal land managers. Rep. Bishop's legislation would amend current federal policies to ensure that our entire border region is accessible by the U.S. Border Patrol- an essential step in our nation's efforts to have full operational control of our borders. WHAT: National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee hearing on H.R. 1505, to prohibit the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from taking action on public lands which impede border security on such lands, and for other purposes. "National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act." Witnesses: Mr. Jim Peña Associate Deputy Chief National Forest Systems U.S. Forest Service U.S. Department of Agriculture Ms. Kim Thorsen Deputy Assistant Secretary Law Enforcement, Security, and Emergency Management U.S. Department of the Interior Mr. Claude E. Guyant Founding member National Association of Former Border Patrol Officers Dr. Gary Thrasher Arizona Cattle Growers Association Public Lands Council National Cattlemen's Beef Association Mr. John D. Leshy Professor of Law U.C. Hastings College of the Law WHERE: Room 1334, Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. DATE: Friday, July 8, 2011 TIME: 10:00 a.m. EDT
06.22.2011	House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today met with Department of Interior (DOI) Deputy Secretary David Hayes and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Bob Abbey to discuss DOI Secretary Ken Salazar's recent memo halting administrative efforts to unilaterally designate new Wild Lands areas. House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) also attended the meeting. On April 14, 2011 the House of Representatives passed the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, the budget to fund the remainder of FY2011. This legislation included a provision cutting off all funding through September 2011 for the controversial Secretarial Order #3310, which outlined plans for the creation of new de-facto wilderness areas or "Wild Lands." Subsequently, on June 1, 2011 DOI Secretary Ken Salazar issued a memo to BLM Director Bob Abbey stating that "pursuant to the 2011 CR, the BLM will not designate any lands as ‘Wild Lands'." "Deputy Secretary Hayes and Director Abbey reiterated that Secretarial Order #3310 is dead. They both assured me that no administrative action will be taken to designate Wild Lands now or any time after FY2011," said Congressman Bishop. "The only way to move forward on public land issues is to avoid unpredictable, unilateral actions without congressional input. Both Director Abbey and Deputy Secretary Hayes stated their intention to reduce the uncertainty that has plagued the debate in recent years and pledged to seek more consensus on these issues by improving coordination and dialogue with Congress and stakeholders." In the memo, Secretary Salazar also stated that Deputy Secretary David Hayes will work to develop recommendations regarding the management of lands with wilderness characteristics. Congressman Bishop expressed a concern over the creation of new management plans and indicated that he was interested in learning more about what Deputy Secretary Hayes would be looking to implement. During today's meeting, Deputy Secretary Hayes also indicated that his recommendations were not imminent and that the Administration would work closely with Congress once those recommendations were completed. "After today I am confident that the Administration recognizes the primary role that Congress must play in land management decisions going forward, Bishop added. "I appreciated both Director Abbey and Deputy Secretary Hayes for taking time to sit down with me and Chairman Hastings and it is my hope that they will uphold the assurances made to us during today's meetings that Secretarial Order #3310 is no longer. While it was good to hear their assurances, I remain cautiously optimistic and will work with my colleagues on the committee to continue careful oversight of the Administration."
06.20.2011	U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar today announced the Administration will continue to prevent any new mining on one million acres of federal land located near the border of Arizona and Utah, known to contain one of the nation's most abundant high grade uranium deposits. In 2009, the Administration imposed a moratorium banning mining in this area, which is set to expire this summer. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee, expressed his disappointment in the decision. "Our country's energy future remains in limbo because Secretary Salazar has chosen to placate his anti-energy special interest cronies. Instead of using his executive power to create policies that foster greater energy independence he has done the exact opposite, driving us toward increased reliance on foreign resources," said Congressman Bishop. There are currently 104 nuclear reactors in the U.S. that require uranium to produce clean, safe, affordable nuclear energy. The U.S. presently imports 90% of the total uranium used for nuclear energy production. "Today's announcement might be considered a win for people like former Secretary Babbitt, who recently called on Salazar to impose harsh new restrictions on energy producers and public land users. However, I can guarantee that the local economies and thousands of unemployed workers that would have benefited from the creation of new jobs and substantial economic revenue do not see it this way. It is certainly not a win for the American people," Bishop added. "Today's decision robs us of an opportunity to help reduce energy costs and is yet another disappointing example of how the Obama Administration is either unwilling or unable to do what is necessary to achieve greater energy independence and economic stability." The one million acres (roughly 25 times the size of Washington, D.C.) targeted by today's announcement contain 326-375 million lbs of domestic uranium, which is enough to generate electrical power for 40 million Americans over more than 22 years. "It is a good week when the Department of Interior isn't using its executive power to impose new regulations or mandates that hurt the energy industry and ultimately the American people," Bishop concluded. "This week clearly isn't one of them."
06.15.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today announced that the House Natural Resources Committee voted in favor of the Utah National Guard Readiness Act (H.R. 686) as well as the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011 (H.R. 765). The passage of these bills in the House Natural Resources Committee moves them one step closer to final consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives. The Utah National Guard Readiness Act would ensure that the Utah National Guard headquarters, located at Camp Williams, has the ability to grow and expand as necessary to meet future defense needs. The Utah National Guard continues to be constrained by limited space for expansion. In order to address these needs and make necessary updates to existing infrastructure, the land surrounding the Utah National Guard Headquarters at Camp Williams, which is currently owned by the federal government, must be transferred to the state. "Utah is one of the few states that continues to meet its National Guard recruitment and retention goals each year. However, due to the fact that the land surrounding the Camp Williams headquarters is owned by the federal government, they are unable to meet their current and future expansion needs. This legislation would remedy this and help ensure that Utah's National Guard is able to grow as necessary to meet our defense needs," said Congressman Bishop. The Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011 amends the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 to permit ski areas on National Forest Service lands to allow for year round recreation, as well as additional recreational snow sports other than alpine and Nordic skiing, such as snowboarding. This legislation will increase tourism and job creation for communities where only limited seasonal ski-related activities in Forest Service ski areas may occur. [read more about H.R. 765 here] "Utah is one of our nation's premier destinations for outdoor enthusiasts, offering a wide variety of year-round recreational opportunities. Unfortunately, antiquated laws prohibit many areas from operating beyond the winter months. This legislation will provide necessary updates so that visitors and residents can enjoy all that Utah has to offer throughout the entire year. This will not only increase employment opportunities but will bring additional support to local economies, especially in our mountain communities," said Congressman Bishop.
06.14.2011	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, held a legislative hearing that included consideration of The Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act. This legislation would convey nearly 32 acres of land that could be used by the community for the potential development of a new city cemetery as well as a new town hall, fire station, park or elementary school. Congressman Bishop and Senator Mike Lee introduced The Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act in both the House and Senate on March 30, 2011. "It makes no sense for this virtually unused vacant land to sit in the federal estate when it could be utilized by the town of Mantua to meet its expansion needs. The federal government already owns one out of every three acres in this country and there is absolutely no justifiable reason why this relatively small parcel of land should be retained by the U.S. Forest Service when it is clear that it would greatly benefit the community of Mantua," said Bishop. "This legislation has been approved by the House in the past and it is my hope that the Senate will finally support this common sense land transfer." The three parcels of land included in this legislation are part of a larger tract originally owned by Hans Rasmussen, an early settler of Mantua, whose family deeded the land to the U.S. Forest Service in 1941 for $1.00. Under this legislation, the city of Mantua would not be required to pay for the land, but would be required to continue using the land for a public purpose and assume all costs associated with surveying the land.
06.10.2011	U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar today announced that he will solicit recommendations from members of Congress about potential new wilderness designations in their states and district, which will then be submitted to Congress for consideration. Congress recently passed legislation that included a measure to defund the Department of Interior's Wild Lands proposal defined in Secretarial Order #3310, which would unilaterally create new de facto wilderness areas. As a result, Secretary Salazar announced last week that the DOI and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) would no longer proceed with the Wild Lands proposal and would instead work with Congress on new public lands designations. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to today's announcement: "I appreciate Secretary Salazar taking time today to call and inform me of this new proposal. Today's announcement, as well as last week's regarding Wild Lands, inspire cautious optimism that Secretary Salazar has finally recognized that Congress determines new wilderness designations, not the Administration. While it appears that this announcement is a positive turn in the right direction, it was not all that long ago that we discovered the Administration was working to undermine the necessary open and public process by unilaterally creating new national monuments and new de facto wilderness areas. "I am not opposed to the creation of new wilderness areas but before I will support these new proposals I want to ensure that they in no way harm the economic viability of states nor their ability to fund education and infrastructure needs. Furthermore, I will not support any effort to add more land to the federal estate- at present the federal government already owns 1 out of every 3 acres across the nation. "Not forgetting their efforts to circumvent the congressional process with the Treasured Landscapes document and Wild Lands proposal, I look forward to working with Secretary Salazar and BLM Director Bob Abbey to find common ground to protect both the livelihoods of our public lands users as well as the public lands themselves. However, all proposals to create new wilderness areas must have the full support from local communities, residents and stakeholders, fulfill the promises made to western states when they entered the union, and meet the necessary criteria outlined in the Wilderness Act."
06.09.2011	Today, the U.S. Department of Interior announced plans for a new gas development project in Utah's Uintah Basin that would include up to 3,675 new gas wells and potentially produce more than 6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas over 10 years. Today's announcement comes more than two years after DOI Secretary Ken Salazar announced the cancellation of 77 oil and gas leases in Utah, which destroyed thousands of would-be jobs for the state and region. "I am pleased to see a positive step forward in this important energy project, which brings much needed relief to two areas that have been hardest hit over the past two years- energy and job creation," said Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands Subcommittee. The new project, The Greater Natural Buttes Area Gas Development Project, was first proposed by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation subsidiary Kerr-McGee Oil and Gas Onshore LP in 2006 but was delayed by the current Administration citing environmental concerns. In an effort to reach an agreement, Kerr-McGee worked closely with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop a plan to address the Administration's concerns. In a meeting with Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) last week, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation officials noted that the new project could create as many as 4,000 new jobs over the next 10 years. "Utah's Greater Natural Buttes area is an essential component of our nation's domestic energy development. This agreement moves us one step closer to developing more clean domestic energy and creating thousands of jobs in Utah over the next decade," Bishop added. According to the DOI, The Greater Natural Buttes Project Area encompasses approximately 162,911 acres in an existing gas producing area located in Uintah County, Utah. Total new surface disturbance under the new project would be approximately 8,147acres, or 5% of the total Greater Natural Buttes Project Area. "Production of our abundant natural resources is essential if we are ever to truly reduce our dependence on foreign supplies. I will continue to encourage the Administration to move projects similar to this one forward in an expeditious manner," Bishop concluded.
06.02.2011	Today, a bipartisan majority the House of Representatives voted in favor of an amendment introduced by Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) that would strike language in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for 2012 (section 547) that authorizes environmental mitigation payments by the Border Patrol to the Department of Interior (DOI). Many believe these funds are used as leverage by public land managers in exchange for simply granting U.S. Border Patrol agents access to federal lands. For a number of years, the Border Patrol has been required to transfer funds to the DOI for "mitigation" efforts on public lands along the border. In theory, these mitigation funds are to be used to offset apparent environmental damage by the Border Patrol in the course of doing its job. There is evidence, however, that the U.S. Border Patrol is being coerced by the Department of Interior (DOI) into paying these funds in exchange for access to federal lands necessary for them to both deter and apprehend criminal smugglers and traffickers. "I appreciate Congresswoman Lummis and Congressman Aderholt for their efforts to ensure that we try to end this Interior slush fund paid for by the Border Patrol. The Border Patrol is not causing severe environmental damage – but the drug cartels and criminal elements that come across the border are," said Congressman Bishop. "It is offensive to me to say that the Border Patrol has to pay mitigation fees for problems they're not causing. The best way to protect the environment is to allow the Border Patrol to have the access they need to stop the flow of criminal activity that is taking a harmful toll on the wildlife and ecology of these natural areas. Members of the minority party keep saying that we're not spending enough on homeland security. If I accept that premise, then everything we spend on homeland security should be for security – not for some public land slush fund used to buy even more land, especially when the federal government already owns one out of every three acres in America. Currently, U.S. Border Patrol agents are restricted from accessing and maintaining routine patrols on millions of acres of federal land located along the southern U.S. / Mexico border. As a result, these areas are some of the most coveted trafficking routes used by drug and human smugglers looking to gain access into the United States. Many public land areas on the U.S. side of the border are overrun with criminal activity and violence and are subsequently too dangerous for public land managers and the general public to enter. [photo] Congressman Bishop introduced legislation, H.R. 1505, that would restrict federal environmental policies and public land managers from limiting the Border Patrol's access to the entire southern U.S./ Mexico border. "Our Border Patrol agents should not be held hostage by these funds and should be granted full access to the entire southern border region to ensure that it's not just private and state lands that are free of criminal activity, but our federal lands as well," Bishop added. "This amendment is one of the essential components of our united effort to gain full operational control of the southern U.S. border, including our federal border lands." Additionally, the amendment would strike language in the bill that allows these funds to be used by the DOI to purchase even more land. Additional federal land acquisition only exacerbates the problem by limiting access to even more land and further bloating the federal estate – at a time when the government cannot even afford to provide the basic care and maintenance needed to existing national parks and other lands.
06.01.2011	The U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) today announced that pursuant to the Continuing Resolution (CR) recently passed to fund the government through the summer, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will cease plans to unilaterally designate public lands as "Wild Lands." In advance of today's announcement, DOI Secretary Ken Salazar spoke with House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) to discuss his intentions and inform him about the DOI's plans to comply with the policies included in the CR. In a memo sent to BLM Director Bob Abbey, Secretary Salazar stated that the DOI will no longer proceed with designating de-facto wilderness areas or "Wild Lands" as had previously been proposed in the controversial Secretarial Order #3310. Salazar noted that the Department will instead work with Congress to identify areas that may be appropriate for new public lands designations under the Wilderness Act. "I appreciate Secretary Salazar taking time to inform me of today's announcement and am pleased that the DOI recognizes that only Congress has the statutory authority to designate wilderness or such concepts as wild lands," said Congressman Bishop. "This is definitely a step in the right direction." In the memo Secretary Salazar also stated that Deputy Secretary David J. Hayes will work with the BLM and interested parties to develop recommendations regarding the management of lands with wilderness characteristics. Additionally, Salazar is directing Deputy Secretary Hayes to solicit input from Members of Congress, state and local officials and federal land managers to identify possible new wilderness areas. These findings will be presented to Congress in a report. "While I am pleased to hear that the DOI intends to uphold the requirements of the Wilderness Act and work with Congress to designate new wilderness areas, I am interested in learning more about their plans to manage lands with so-called ‘wilderness characteristics'," Bishop added. "I look forward to working with Secretary Salazar, Deputy Secretary Hayes and Director Abbey to ensure that our public lands are managed in such a way that the livelihoods of public lands users and the environment are protected and preserved for generations to come." In an effort to prevent millions of acres of land from being unilaterally designated as wild lands, Bishop, along with many western Members of Congress, including House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) and Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID), have remained vigilant in their efforts to prevent the DOI from proceeding with Secretarial Order #3310. "Today's announcement is welcome news for many communities in the West as well as all those whose livelihoods depend upon access to our nation's public lands. I am cautiously optimistic that the DOI intends to have a more cooperative relationship with Congress and that we can work toward more collaborative policies," Bishop concluded.
05.31.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted on legislation [H.R. 1954] that would increase the Debt Ceiling by $2.4 trillion without making any cuts to current spending. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) along with 317 other members of Congress voted against the measure, which failed by an overwhelming majority. The previous Debt Ceiling, set at approximately $14.3 trillion, was reached on May 16th. In short, this means the government is spending more than it is bringing, has borrowed as much as legally possible and can no longer issue more debt to fund expenditures. "It is imperative that any consideration to increase the debt limit be accompanied by drastic spending cuts and changes to the broken policies that have lead to the current deficit. I will support nothing less and am staunchly opposed to any effort that would simply increase the debt limit without making changes to current spending habits. We must make the changes necessary to get our fiscal house back in order. Raising the debt limit alone does not do that," said Congressman Bishop.
05.27.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day, observed Monday, May 30. "During the Memorial Day holiday we honor the brave men and women throughout history who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our country. The men and women of our Armed Forces along with their families make many scarifies so that we may live in a freer and safer world. This Monday, we pay tribute to them and to all those who gave their lives in defense of our nation's liberty and freedom. "As we honor our fallen heroes, it is also fitting that we express our deep gratitude for the soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world--we pray for their safe return." On Memorial Day, Congressman Bishop will honor our nation's heroes at a ceremony held by the VFW Post 1695 at the Brigham City Cemetery. The flag will be raised at 11:00 a.m. MDT and will be followed by remarks from Congressman Bishop.
05.26.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2012. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of this legislation, which includes key provisions for Utah military installations and the future operations of our national defense. The National Defense Authorization Act authorizes $690 billion for the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Department of Transportation's Maritime Administration. "Utah is home to some of the most preeminent military personnel and national defense systems in the country. I am pleased that funding has been authorized in this legislation to ensure the continued operation of many of the facilities and programs located in Utah that play a critical role in our national defense capabilities, including the large scale solid rocket motor industrial base," said Congressman Bishop. The NDAA is one of the primary ways that Congress fulfills its constitutional responsibility to provide for the common defense. Specifically, the NDAA for FY2012 authorizes $553 billion for the Department of Defense's base budget, $119 billion for overseas contingency operations, and $18 billion for the Department of Energy's atomic energy defense programs to: · Ensure that our troops deployed in Afghanistan, Iraq and around the globe have the resources and technology necessary to successfully complete their missions and return home; · Provide our military personnel and their families with the utmost support in return for the many sacrifices they make to ensure the safety and security of our country · Invest in cutting edge technology and leading national defense capabilities necessary to protect the United States from current and future threats; · Mandate fiscal responsibility, transparency and accountability within the Department of Defense; and · Incentivize competition for funding within Department of Defense requirements The NDAA authorizes the following Utah specific provisions: · Creation of a national rocket propulsion strategy-- in light of the Administration's plans to cancel constellation, this provision will require the President to create a National Rocket Propulsion Strategy that preserves the solid rocket motor industrial base, and to report it to Congress. · Transfer of 2.7 acres of land to Ogden Redevelopment Corporation from former Defense Depot Ogden, for further economic development · U.S. Army, Dugway Proving Grounds -- Life Sciences Test Addition. Provides needed addition to existing facilities that conduct vital biological and chemical defensive testing to help ensure that our military personnel remain safe on the battlefield and elsewhere against emerging chem-bio threats. · Utah National Guard, Camp Williams-- Multi-Purpose Machine Gun Range · Hill Air Force Base-- F-22 System Support Facility · Hill Air Force Base-- F-35 Additions and Alterations (ADAL) Hangar · Camp Williams-- Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative (CNCI) Data Center (Phase 3)
05.24.2011	Today, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered remarks before a joint session of Congress. During his speech he again stated his criticism of President Obama's suggestion that an Israeli-Palestinian peace process should start at the 1967 borders. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement in response to the President's recommendation and to Prime Minister Netanyahu's remarks: "Prime Minister Netanyahu and all Israelis should know that America stands with Israel - one of our greatest allies in the world. I applaud the Prime Minister for his leadership as a champion of democracy and for his commitment to peace and security throughout the region. Israel is an example that democracy can succeed in the Middle East. As the Prime Minister noted during his remarks, peace can only be reached by those dedicated to peace, which is why I fundamentally disagree with President Obama's suggestion that negotiations between Palestine and Israel begin by re-imposing the borders of 1967. Israel has a right to exist as a state and, like America, a right to maintain defensible borders in order to provide safety and security for its people."
05.13.2011	The House of Representatives today passed the FY 2011 Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2011, which authorizes funding for resources essential to ongoing and future U.S. Intelligence operations. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the legislation [H.R. 754], which passed the House with overwhelming bi-partisan support by a vote of 392-15. Congress has not passed a complete intelligence authorization bill in six years. "The recent capture of Osama bin Laden underscores the importance of ensuring that we provide the Intelligence community with the resources necessary to conduct operations that contribute to the safety and security of our country," said Congressman Bishop. "The Intelligence community is an essential component of our national security capabilities, both at home and overseas, and I am pleased that the House took the important step today to update and address policies that have gone untouched for nearly six years." Specifically, this legislation provides oversight and authorization for critical intelligence activities, including: · Global counter-terrorism operations, such as the one that took out Osama bin Laden · Tactical intelligence support to combat units in Afghanistan and Iraq · Cyber defense by the National Security Agency · Court-ordered wire taps against terrorists and spies · Detecting and countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction · Design, launch and operation of spy satellites · Global monitoring of foreign militaries, weapons tests, and arms control treaties · Real-time analysis and reporting on events such as the unrest in the Middle East · Research and development of new technology to maintain our intelligence agencies' technological edge, including work on code breaking and spy satellites -30-
05.12.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) today unveiled the Repeal Amendment, a joint resolution that would amend the U.S. Constitution to provide states with the authority to repeal any federal law or regulation if two-thirds of the States are in agreement. "When the Founding Fathers drafted the Constitution they never intended for the federal government to usurp the power and responsibilities designed for the states and for the people. Unfortunately, Washington has steadily acquired power to the point that today's system is completely out of balance. As a result, Washington has grown too intrusive, reaching into just about every aspect of our lives—this transcends party lines and impedes on the liberties of all Americans," said Congressman Bishop. At present, the only way for states to contest a federal law, regulation or mandate is to bring a constitutional challenge in federal court or to seek an amendment to the Constitution. The Repeal Amendment will enhance the states' ability to protect the powers "reserved to the states" as noted in the Tenth Amendment. Text of the Repeal Amendment: "Any provision of law or regulation of the United States may be repealed by the several states, and such repeal shall be effective when the legislatures of two-thirds of the several states approve resolutions for this purpose that particularly describe the same provision or provisions of law or regulation to be repealed." "The Repeal Amendment would provide states with a powerful tool to return power and rights back to the states and to the people respectively, just as our Founding Fathers intended," Bishop added. "It is my hope that this joint resolution will inspire a new way of thinking in Washington, serving as a reminder to lawmakers and bureaucrats that policies that reflect the will of the people most often originate at the local and state levels, and not in Washington, D.C." The following Senators and Representatives are co-sponsors of the resolution: Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and James Risch (R-ID) as well as Representatives Paul Broun (R-GA), John Campbell (R-CA), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Tom Graves (R-GA), H. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Don Manzullo (R-IL), Tim Walberg (R-MI) and Joe Walsh (R-IL)
05.11.2011	**M E D I A A D V I S O R Y** Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) will hold a press conference tomorrow, May 12, 2011 to unveil a resolution that would amend the U.S. Constitution to give states the option to repeal any federal law or regulation so long as 2/3 of the states are in agreement.WHO: Senator Mike Enzi (WY), Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Rep. H. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) WHAT: Media availability held to introduce the Repeal Amendment WHERE: U.S. Capitol room S-325, Senate Radio-Television Gallery Studio DATE: TOMORROW, Thursday, May 12, 2011 TIME: 1:45 p.m. EDT
05.10.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, responded to remarks delivered today by President Obama from Texas regarding border security and immigration reform. "It seems premature to discuss immigration policies when thousands of criminals continue to cross our border- many of whom enter completely undetected. In his remarks today, the President failed to acknowledge the rampant criminal activity occurring on public lands throughout the southern border region. Gaining full operational control of the border should be our number one priority. If your bathtub is overflowing, your first step isn't to start bailing out water, it's to turn off the spigot. The same practice should apply to the border," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop was recently joined by House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King (R-NY), and House Appropriations Committee member Congressman John Carter (R-TX) in introducing the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act [H.R. 1505]. Specifically, the National Security and Federal Protection Act: Prevents the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from impeding, prohibiting, or restricting the Department of Homeland Security's efforts to obtain operational control of the border. Provides the Department of Homeland Security with immediate access to federal lands necessary to provide the utmost security throughout the border region. Allows the U.S. Border Patrol to construct and maintain roads and place surveillance equipment in strategic areas that will assist in detecting and apprehending criminals. Allows the Department of Homeland Security to waive certain policies preventing them from obtaining full operational control of the border. "I am not surprised that the President chose El Paso, Texas as the location for today's remarks. El Paso seems to be one of the few areas along the southern border where security has improved in recent years. Physical infrastructure coupled with the U.S. Border Patrol's routine presence, much like in some parts of California, has been a successful deterrent for criminal smugglers and traffickers. While these areas may see fewer apprehensions, this does not mean that the overall security of the entire southern border has improved. It simply means the criminal organizations that operate trafficking and smuggling rings have found alternate crossing locations—the most sought after being on our public lands. "Public lands along the southern border continue to see exceptionally high levels of criminal activity solely because restrictive environmental policies prevent the Border Patrol from having sufficient access to the highly trafficked areas. The President can add thousands of new Border Patrol agents as he touted in his speech, but that serves no purpose if they cannot access the areas frequented by traffickers and smugglers. How can they maintain full operational control when they can only access some, but not all, areas along the border? As a result, the Border Patrol confirms that there is no way to know exactly how many traffickers and smugglers enter through these areas each night with little or no detection. Any numbers being reported on this matter are inaccurate because again, there is simply no way to really know. "Just last month, I toured the southern U.S. border in Arizona with Senator Tom Coburn. During our trip we heard first-hand from law enforcement personnel, current and former Border Patrol agents, as well as local community members that the Border Patrol's lack of access to public lands continues to hinder their ability to gain full operational control of the border. Allowing environmental policies to dictate national security is irresponsible and the Administration's claims that the border is more secure now than ever is dishonest and misleading. While it might score political points, it is disingenuous to tout inflated statistics and half truths about the status of the southern border. If the President and his Administration are serious about addressing the realities of the ongoing criminal activity occurring along the border, they will take time to examine and investigate the areas off-limits to the Border Patrol to get a first-hand account of the rampant criminal activity and environmental degradation occurring as a result of our nation's own environmental policies," Bishop added.
05.05.2011	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves on the powerful House Rules Committee and as Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, delivered the following remarks in support of two bills aimed at increasing domestic energy production and job creation— the Restarting American Offshore Leasing Now Act [H.R. 1230] and the Putting the Gulf Back to Work Act [H.R. 1229]. The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1230, which will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. H.R. 1229 is expected to be voted on next week. In May 2010, the Obama Administration imposed a de facto moratorium on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, which according to its own estimates cost 12,000 jobs. After lifting the moratorium in October 2010, the Administration maintained a de facto moratorium on offshore drilling by slow-walking the permitting process, which has cost 130,000 barrels of oil per day and thousands of American jobs. The Restarting American Offshore Leasing Now Act requires the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior to conduct oil and natural gas lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Virginia that have been delayed or cancelled by the Obama Administration. The Restarting American Offshore Leasing Now Act would require the lease sales to occur before June 1, 2012 or within one year after enactment of the bill. Click here to view remarks "Unlike the bills we have seen over the past couple years, which have led us to a situation where today, there are twice as many workers in the government as there are in all of manufacturing in this nation, which is an exact reverse of the situation this nation was in during 1960," said Congressman Bishop. "The situation in which we find ourselves today with regard to energy is one that is detrimental to everybody. Everyone that goes to the pump to fill their car recognizes the costs are increasing and will continue to increase. They recognize the situation we are in puts all jobs in jeopardy and it's because of the inaction of this particular Administration. The President has continually said he wants to take action to move forward to develop American energy, but the actions of his administration have, quite frankly, failed to meet the rhetoric of his Administration…"
05.04.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, issued the following statement regarding an announcement made today by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) that they will comply with a provision included in the recently passed Continuing Resolution (CR) that requires the delisting of the recovered gray wolf. The gray wolf will officially be delisted from the Western Great Lakes region and the Northern Rocky Mountains including Idaho, Montana and parts of Oregon, Washington and Utah. "Gray wolves have recovered in such a way throughout much of the West that they are actually becoming a danger and a menace to ranchers and farmers. This is one of the prevailing reasons why the CR recently signed into law by the President included a provision to delist the gray wolf in areas where populations are robust and healthy. While I am glad that the Administration is complying with the provisions in the CR and even expanding them in some areas, there is still much more work that needs to be done to give states and local governments greater control and management of gray wolf and other wildlife populations," said Congressman Rob Bishop.
05.04.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act [H.R.3], which permanently prohibits the use of federal dollars for abortions. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) is a co-sponsor of the legislation and joined with 251 Members in support of its passage. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. "The passage of this legislation is an important step as we continuously work to protect the sanctity of the life of an unborn child. It is unconscionable that federal resources are allowed to enable or outright fund abortions and I am pleased that we are closer to reversing these policies. Hardworking Americans already pay more than their fair share to fund numerous unnecessary and irresponsible federal programs and abortions certainly should not be one of them," said Congressman Bishop. H.R. 3 would end taxpayer subsidies for abortions, abortion-related costs, and abortion healthcare coverage. Specifically, this legislation establishes a permanent, government-wide prohibition on taxpayer subsidies for abortion and abortion coverage amends existing tax code so that if funds from a Flexible Spending Account (FSA) or Health Savings Account (HSA) are used for abortions, they do not receive tax-favorable treatment; states that tax subsidies made available in the 2010 health law for the purchase of insurance cannot be used for specific policies that cover abortion and associated costs; prevents the cost of an abortion from serving as a deduction for unreimbursed medical expenses
05.02.2011	"It is awkward to celebrate anyone's death, but it is impossible to feel remorse for one who has caused so much pain and needless suffering in the world. None of us are better for having experienced bin Laden"s savagery and absolute indifference to human life. The world is better without him. I thank those who risked their lives to bring justice." --Rep. Rob Bishop.
04.29.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, today commended the State of Utah for filing a lawsuit against the Department of Interior's recent Secretarial Order #3310, which creates new a new "wild lands" designation for areas that are said to have wilderness characteristics. "The controversial and widely unpopular wild lands proposal will have a detrimental impact on Utah and many other public lands states, which is why it is essential that we challenge this irresponsible policy on all fronts—at the federal, state, and local levels. I commend Governor Gary Herbert and Attorney General Mark Shurtleff for taking legal action on behalf of the state and look forward to continuing to work with them to ensure that Utah's public lands remain open and accessible," said Congressman Bishop. On March 1, 2011, Congressman Bishop along with the full House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on the controversial wild lands proposal titled "The Impact of the Administration's Wild Lands Order on Jobs and Economic Growth." Governor Herbert and Idaho Governor Butch Otter both testified during the hearing about the impact the DOI's wild lands proposal would have on their states. In an effort to halt the wild lands proposal in its tracks, Congressman Bishop and other western members including Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) have collectively worked to ensure that Secretarial Order #3310 is not implemented. On April 12, 2011, Bishop announced that the final version of the Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government for FY2011 included a provision to cut any funding for Secretarial Order #3310. That legislation passed the House and Senate on April 14th and was signed into law by the President. Bishop is currently working with House appropriators to ensure that a similar provision is included in the FY2012 budget.
04.15.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on the Republican budget for fiscal year 2012. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the fiscally responsible proposal [H.Con.Res 34], which passed the house by a vote of 235 to 193. The Republican budget for FY2012 cuts roughly $6 trillion in government spending over the next decade and brings non-security discretionary spending below 2008 levels. Unlike the President's budget, which includes zero cuts to spending and $1.5 trillion in new tax increases, this proposal eliminates nearly $800 billion in new taxes imposed by ObamaCare as well as hundreds of duplicative programs funded by hard-earned taxpayer dollars. "We're succeeding in turning the tide on the wasteful and reckless spending practices that have occurred in Washington the past few years. This budget is a clear indication that we are serious about making reforms to the way hard-earned tax dollars are managed and we are serious about putting Americans back to work. I hope that the Senate and President will join in our efforts to uphold the interests and priorities of the American people by supporting these fiscally responsible policies," said Congressman Bishop. Additionally, studies indicate that the Republican FY2012 budget would help create nearly one million private-sector jobs next year alone and would increase GDP by $1.5 trillion over the next decade. "I have no doubt that this proposal will be met with opposition by those who wish to maintain the irresponsible tax and spend behavior that has put us in this mess and saddled the American people with a $14 trillion deficit. I look forward to addressing their challenges and will fight for these cuts on behalf of hard-working Utahns and all Americans who deserve to keep more of their hard earned tax dollars and not see them used to fund wasteful, redundant and intrusive federal programs," Bishop added.
04.14.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted on a final Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the federal government for the remainder of FY2011. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the measure, which among many things, cuts tens of billions of dollars in federal spending, eliminates funding for the Department of Interior's controversial wild lands proposal, emphasizes the importance that NASA maintain important heavy-lift capabilities for space and missile defense, removes the gray wolf from the Endangered Species list, and ensures that our military and support personnel are not subject to furloughs. "At the beginning of year, the President proposed a budget that made zero cuts to spending. Today, Republicans succeeded in diverting the course that would have otherwise been taken if the President and Democrats in Washington had it their way. We are making progress and we continue to gain new ground in our efforts to drastically overhaul and reverse past spending practices, but we have to cut more. "The reality is that while Republicans maintain the majority in the House, we still face a Senate and White House controlled by the Democrats. So far, though, we have gained far more than we have lost and have cut tens of billions of dollars in federal spending while averting a government shutdown. Millions of Americans, including our nation's military and support personnel at bases like Hill AFB, will not have to go without pay and many wasteful programs such as DOI's wild lands initiative have been cut. In total, this bill represents the largest spending cut in American history. This is a drastic improvement over what has occurred in the past few years. "In addition to making historic cuts to spending, this legislation prohibits federal funding of abortions in the District of Columbia, saving the lives of many unborn children. "While this bill does many good things for the state of Utah as well as the entire nation, the reality is that it only addresses federal spending through September. The real fight lies ahead with the 2012 budget, which is scheduled to be voted on tomorrow and includes trillions of dollars in cuts, reforms Medicaid and Medicare, repeals ObamaCare, and continues to drastically reduce discretionary funding. The battles over the provisions included in the FY2011 budget and many more will have to be fought and won again. The fight to secure trillions of dollars in cuts in the FY2012 budget cannot begin until the budget for FY2011 is passed in both the House and the Senate. I along with my Republican colleagues remain committed to ensuring that we cut trillions in wasteful federal spending in the next fiscal year, tenfold of what is included in the final FY2011 package. "If I had it my way, we would have cut more, however it is far better than where we have been and evidence that we are headed in the right direction."
04.13.2011	This Friday, April 15, 2011, the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Security, Homeland Defense, and Foreign Operations will hold a joint oversight hearing. The joint hearing will examine environmental laws and regulations and their impact on border security and the health of the environment throughout the southern U.S. border region. The southern U.S. border region includes more than 20 million acres of combined Department of Interior (DOI) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS) land. These areas are subject to many restrictive public lands policies that limit access for the U.S. Border Patrol, creating numerous security gaps that give drug cartels, human smuggling organizations, and other criminals unmitigated access into the U.S. This is one of the contributing factors to ongoing violence and environmental degradation occurring throughout the southern U.S. border region. "This hearing will examine many of the different factors that contribute to the ongoing lawlessness occurring on federal lands throughout the border region. It is unacceptable that these areas continue to provide safe harbor for drug traffickers and human smugglers simply because Washington bureaucrats have placed environmental policies at a premium over national security," said National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop. WHAT: Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands— Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT ), Chairman Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations—Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Chairman Oversight Hearing on: "The Border: Are Environmental Laws and Regulation Impeding Security and Harming the Environment?" Witnesses: Panel I: Ronald Vitiello Deputy Chief U.S. Customs and Border Patrol Kim Thorsen Deputy Assistant Secretary for Law Enforcement, Security and Emergency Management U.S. Department of Interior Jay Jensen Deputy Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment U.S. Department of Agriculture Panel II: George Zachary Taylor Former U.S. Border Patrol Agent National Association of Former Border Patrol Officers Gene Wood Former U.S. Border Patrol Agent National Association of Former Border Patrol Officers Jim Chilton Chilton Ranch, Arivaca, AZ Anu Mittal Government Accountability Office WHEN: Friday, April 15, 2011 9:30 a.m. (EDT) WHERE: 2154 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C.
04.13.2011	National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today introduced the National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act (H.R. 1505). This legislation remedies current security gaps that exist on federal lands along our nation's borders by preventing the Department of Interior (DOI) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from using environmental policies to restrict the U.S. Border patrol from obtaining routine access. House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA), Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King (R-NY), and Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) are original co-sponsors of the bill. "This legislation takes the necessary and responsible steps to address the unacceptable restrictions that prevent Border Security experts from doing their jobs. Allowing public land managers and restrictive environmental policies, not Border Security experts, to dictate how we secure our nation's borders and keep our country safe is counterintuitive, and as a result, has jeopardized the safety and security of all Americans," said Bishop. There are more than 20 million acres of federal land located along the southern U.S. border region. Due to the U.S. Border Patrol's inability to maintain a routine presence on federal lands, criminal drug and human smuggling organizations have co-opted these areas as superhighways into the United States. Drug cartels and other criminal operations recognize that federal lands provide miles of virtually unfettered access into the U.S. This has not only contributed to the escalating border violence but has also caused severe environmental degradation. "The federal lands along our border are a haven of criminal activity and the same environmental policies that are supposed to be protecting the lands are actually allowing them to be destroyed. In fact, what benefit these regulations are actually providing remains a mystery. I have seen firsthand the damage that has been done to our federal lands from trash, foot traffic and man-made fires. Providing Border Patrol with the necessary access to deter and apprehend those who cross through our federal lands illegally would deliver the greatest benefit to both national security and the long-term health of our federal lands," Bishop added. On Friday, April 15th the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and the Security, Homeland Defense, and Foreign Operations Subcommittee will hold a joint oversight hearing titled "The Border: Are Environmental Laws and Regulation Impeding Security and Harming the Environment?." Specifically, the National Security and Federal Protection Act: Prevents the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from impeding, prohibiting, or restricting the Department of Homeland Security's efforts to obtain operational control of the border. Provides the Department of Homeland Security with immediate access to federal lands necessary to provide the utmost security throughout the border region. Allows the U.S. Border Patrol to construct and maintain roads and place surveillance equipment in strategic areas that will assist in detecting and apprehending criminals. Allows the Department of Homeland Security to waive certain policies preventing them from obtaining full operational control of the border. -30-
04.12.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee that oversees Public Lands, today announced that the final Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the remainder of fiscal year 2011 includes a provision (1769) to prohibit funding for the Department of Interior's (DOI) controversial "Wild Lands" proposal issued by Secretarial Order #3310. "Implementation of the Secretarial Order would take hard-earned taxpayer dollars and put them toward a policy that would lock up millions of acres of public lands and destroy thousands of jobs. The creation of new de-facto wilderness throughout the West would be severely detrimental to state and local economies and create a paralyzing uncertainty for western communities. Since the time it was announced, elected officials throughout the West recognized it was essential that this proposal be halted in its tracks. With the passage of this CR, we do just that," said Bishop. The Secretarial Order, released in December of last year without advance notice or congressional input, would create an arbitrary new designation for public lands. Bishop was one of the earliest critics of the Wild Lands proposal and has fought to ensure that Congress does not provide funding for its implementation. "The provision to defund Wild Lands is a victory for Utah and all public lands states. I thank my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee, including Rep. Mike Simpson, for recognizing that funding the Wild Lands policy would be a wasteful use of taxpayer dollars and government resources," Bishop added. Specifically, Section 1769 of the FY2011 CR states: "none of the funds made available by this division or any other Act may be used to implement, administer, or enforce Secretarial Order No. 3310 issued by the Secretary of the Interior on December 22, 2010."
04.07.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today voted in support of legislation (H.R. 1363) introduced by House Republicans that will fund the Department of Defense through the remainder of the fiscal year and extend the existing Continuing Resolution (CR) for one week. "House Republicans continue to take responsible and proactive steps to ensure that the federal government does not shut down, that our defense operations are adequately funded, and that our servicemen and women continue to be paid while the Senate refuses to take action," said Congressman Bishop. Last year, under the Democrat majority, House leaders failed to pass a budget or appropriations bills for FY 2011. This year, the new Republican majority took action by immediately passing a bill (H.R. 1) funding the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year. This legislation not only addressed all necessary funding needs but also cut federal spending by $61 billion over the remainder of the year. Despite the fact that the House has already acted, Congress has had to pass short term extensions of the previous budget to ensure that the government remains operational until the Senate takes action. "In addition to fully funding the Department of Defense through the remainder of the fiscal year, this legislation also upholds the commitment I and my fellow Republicans made in the Pledge to America to get our fiscal house in order by cutting wasteful spending. At the end of the day, the Senate must act responsibly by passing a funding bill so that both the House and Senate versions can be reconciled and sent to the President once and for all. It is time for Senator Reid to stop playing games with the livelihoods of hard-working Americans," Bishop added. Specifically, H.R. 1363 will provide $515.8 billion to fund the Department of Defense through September 30, 2011 and cuts $12 billion from funding provided in the one-week extension.
04.07.2011	To address the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) efforts to unilaterally regulate greenhouse gas emissions and impose a job-killing national energy tax, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today voted in support of the Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910). This legislation will prohibit the EPA from regulating greenhouse gases under the Clean Air act and will repeal the steps the agency has already taken to do so. "We all agree that it is important to ensure that the air we breathe is clean and safe. However, the Clean Air Act was never intended to be a vehicle for the EPA to circumvent Congress in order to unilaterally impose a radical policy that hinders our economic recovery and destroys jobs. We should be doing everything we can to stimulate job-growth and reduce energy costs. Instead, this Administration is attempting to move forward with its special interest agenda, despite the fact that its policies would make it harder for Americans to get by during these uncertain economic times. The Energy Tax Prevention Act will help ensure that the interests of all Americans are protected and that millions of jobs are not outsourced to other countries," said Bishop. This legislation received support from the following organizations: American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity American Electric Power American Farm Bureau Federation American Forest & Paper Association American Iron and Steel Institute American Public Power Association Americans for Tax Reform Business Roundtable Coalition (Including American Chemistry Council, American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, American Forest & Paper Association, American Iron and Steel Institute, American Petroleum Institute, Brick Industry Association, CropLife America, Industrial Minerals Association, National Association of Manufacturers, National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, National Lime Association, National Mining Association, National Oilseed Processors Association, National Petrochemical and Refiners Association, The Aluminum Association, The Fertilizer Institute, U.S. Chamber of Commerce) Chamber of Commerce Industrial Energy Consumers of America Metalcasters Alliance Midwest Power Coalition National Association of Convenience Stores -30-
04.05.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today issued the following statement upon House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan's release of "The Path to Prosperity: Restoring America's Promise"- the Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution. "The Republican budget introduced today by Chairman Ryan takes the necessary steps to cut spending by $6 trillion and create more than 2 million jobs over the next 10 years. This is in stark contrast to the budget introduced by President Obama, which would add $9.1 trillion to the national debt over the next decade, create massive new tax increases and continue to foster the growing uncertainty preventing businesses from creating jobs for millions of Americans. The Republican budget is in even greater contrast to the path chosen by House Democrats last year, which was to completely ignore the priorities of the American people by simply not developing any budget whatsoever. "In addition to proposing sweeping reforms to federal spending, reducing it to 20% of gross domestic product (GDP), the Republican budget reduces deficits by more than $4 trillion and would completely repeal and defund ObamaCare. "This is a very historic time in our nation's history. There is a very real possibility that the federal government enters into a shutdown. This is all because Democrats in Congress failed to pass a budget last year, leaving the new Republican majority to fix the mess they left behind. We are taking necessary steps to do just that, however the Senate refuses to act, leaving millions of hard-working Americans in the lurch. By introducing today's budget, Republicans are taking steps to ensure that we not only address the current fiscal crisis, but also put our country on track to greater economic prosperity. Click here for a summary of provisions included in the legislation.
03.31.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today joined with Senator David Vitter (R-LA) along with 28 original Senate co-sponsors and 26 original House co-sponsors, to introduce the Domestic Jobs, Domestic Energy, and Deficit Reduction Act of 2011 (3-D Act) in both the House and Senate. This legislation would take immediate steps to address the urgent need for greater domestic energy production, job creation and reduction of the $14 trillion deficit. Implementation of these policies would create nearly 2 million jobs, $10 trillion in economic activity, and $2.4 trillion in federal tax receipts. "Rising energy costs, unemployment and a $14 trillion national debt are among the biggest challenges that our country is currently facing. While President Obama and Secretary Salazar would rather point fingers and place blame everywhere but within their Administration, today we are taking a different approach by proposing common sense legislation that would lift redundant bureaucratic red tape to immediately allow for the development of our abundant domestic resources. This in turn will create thousands of well-paying jobs and begin paying down the growing deficit," said Bishop. "There is no reason that we continue to heavily rely on foreign and often unstable countries like Libya to meet our energy needs. This legislation seeks to shift the paradigm from energy reliance to energy independence." This week, President Barack Obama refused to accept any responsibility for skyrocketing gas prices stating that "any claim that my Administration is responsible for gas prices because we've ‘shut down' oil production might make for a useful sound bite – but it doesn't track with reality." However, in early February 2009, one of the Department of Interior's (DOI) first priorities was to cancel 77 oil and gas leases in the state of Utah. Among other things, the 3-D Act directs the DOI to reissue all leases for projects it withdrew in 2009 in Utah. "Yesterday, the president offered some vague platitudes, but no concrete plans to rein in rising gas prices, even as they climb toward $4 per gallon. Today, we're laying out a far different path by introducing our legislation. The 3-D Act would unleash our vast domestic energy potential to create American jobs, help free us from our reliance on foreign oil and begin to reduce our $14 trillion dollar national debt. Louisianians know how our domestic energy supplies can be a powerful job-creating force, and dozens of energy producers are willing and able to begin work quickly and safely to develop those untapped resources," said U.S. Sen. David Vitter. Specifically, the 3-D Act: · Directs the State Department to issue all permits necessary to move forward with the Keystone XL Pipeline Project. · Directs the Secretary of Interior to conduct a lease sale in each Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) planning area for which there is a commercial interest in purchasing federal oil and gas production leases. Considers the 2010-2015 planning area complete. It also directs the DOI to hold lease sales for areas in the Gulf and off Virginia that DOI has backed away from. · Expedites the review process for permits to drill. Requires Interior to make a decision on APD's within 20 days or return to operator so that deficiencies in permit can be rectified within 10 days. Then gives Interior an additional 10 days to make a decision on the permit. · Opens a small pre-designated portion ANWR to oil production and establishes an Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) Alternative Energy Trust Fund, so that we pay for renewable energy development with our own money…rather than borrow from China. Funds do not move to the Trust Fund unless federal revenues exceed federal expenditures (balanced budget). · Expedites Oil Shale resource development and leasing on federal lands. · Expedites the environmental review process and requires federal agencies to use most expeditious environmental review process available until unemployment falls below 5%. · Amends the Clean Air Act to declare that carbon dioxide and methane from agriculture or livestock are not pollutants. · Requires EPA to do full economic analysis under Sec. 321(a) of the Clean Air Act and establishes that deficient economic analysis can trigger administrative review and further analysis. · Prohibits consideration of the impact of greenhouse gas on any species of fish or wildlife or plant for any purpose in the implementation of the Endangered Species Act. · Directs Interior to reissue all leases for projects it withdrew in 2009 in Utah and directs EPA to reissue the CWA permit for Spruce No. 1 mine in West Virginia. · Prevents payment from the Judgment Fund to reimburse environmental NGOs for filing lawsuits against domestic energy production and domestic businesses. The 3-D Act has already garnered support from the following organizations: Americans for Limited Government- letter Western Business Roundtable- letter U.S. Chamber of Commerce-letter Americans for Tax Reform- letter Americans for Prosperity- letter Western Energy Alliance-letter An economic summary for the 3-D act can be found here.
03.30.2011	President Obama today delivered remarks at Georgetown University to address the growing nationwide unrest over America's energy future. Congressman Rob Bishop, a leading critic of new and restrictive energy policies imposed by the new Administration, issued the following response to the President's remarks: "The hypocrisy of the President's remarks along with those from Secretary Salazar yesterday is both appalling and disappointing. Following on the heels of Secretary Salazar's misleading and disingenuous remarks made yesterday about the energy industry's failure to utilize existing leases, the President today once again bizarrely placed the blame for high energy prices on American energy producers. "Once again, the President attempted to dodge his own Administration's culpability in hindering and curtailing domestic energy production. He argued that accusations that his Administration has ‘shut down oil production might make for a useful sound bite but doesn't track with reality.' The reality is that in the first weeks of his administration, Secretary Salazar ‘shut down' 77 oil and gas leases in Utah putting hundreds out of work and delaying vital domestic energy resources from being developed. "It's politically convenient for the President to blame everyone but his own Administration all while touting his record of accomplishments. However, at the end of the day, this is nothing more than smoke in mirrors coupled with the double speak we have come to expect from both the President and his Cabinet. "If the President is truly dedicated to addressing the energy and job crisis in this country he will direct his Administration to no longer create and implement restrictive policies that have been preventing the production of our abundant domestic resources for the past two years. Today the President provided more lofty promises and empty rhetoric. Tomorrow, I will join with Senator Vitter to introduce actual legislation that offers tangible solutions to create thousands of well-paying jobs and helps wean our nation off our reliance on foreign oil." -30-
03.30.2011	Today, Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) and Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) introduced legislation to transfer three parcels of federally owned land in Box Elder County to the town of Mantua, Utah. Specifically, The Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act would convey nearly 32 acres of land that could be used by the community for multiple purposes, including the potential development of a new city cemetery, a new town hall, fire station, park or elementary school. The parcels of land included in this legislation are located on the south end of town below 100 South and west of Main Street and Willard Peak Road. They are part of a larger tract originally owned by Hans Rasmussen, an early settler of Mantua, whose family deeded the land to the U.S. Forest Service in 1941 for $1.00. Under this legislation, the city of Mantua would not be required to pay for the land, but would assume all costs associated with surveying and development. "There is absolutely no valid reason why the federal government should maintain ownership of this land, which has sat vacant and virtually unused for decades, when it could otherwise be utilized by the town of Mantua to meet the current challenges associated with its growth and expansion," said Congressman Bishop, whose district encompasses all of Box Elder County. "The parcels of land we're asking to have conveyed are relatively small in size but would have a significant impact on the future of this community." "It is a testament to the growth of our state and cities like Mantua that this bill is necessary," said Senator Lee, who sits on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "The city can use the land productively and the federal government has no pressing need for it. With the help of Rep. Bishop, I hope we can move this bill quickly through Congress." Congressman Bishop, who serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public lands, will immediately request that a legislative hearing be held on this bill. -30-
03.29.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public lands, responded today to the U.S. Department of Interior's (DOI) report examining the status of energy leases on federal lands. The report, both directly and indirectly, attempts to blame energy producers for failing to develop domestic resources in a "timely and responsible manner." Congressman Bishop released the following response to the report: "This Administration would have you believe that energy companies do not want to produce energy. I'd say that assertion is ludicrous, but even that would be too generous. The implications of this report are both disingenuous and intentionally misleading. Furthermore, it shows the current Administration understands neither basic economics nor its own leasing process. The only explanation for this sort of report is that it demonstrates, once again, that this Department of Interior is more concerned with scoring political points than in moving our country towards greater energy independence. "It's unconscionable that as our nation faces skyrocketing gas prices, rising unemployment and a $14 trillion national debt, Secretary Salazar elects to spend his time pointing fingers at our nation's energy producers who, like all consumers, have had to bear the burden of his restrictive anti-energy policies. In my view, it would be a better use of his time to help create and implement policies that foster greater domestic energy independence than spend his days blaming others for the current Administration's own failures." -30-
03.28.2011	On Thursday, March 31, 2011, Senator David Vitter (R-LA) and Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) will hold a media availability to jointly introduce 3-D: The Domestic Jobs, Domestic Energy, and Deficit Reduction Act of 2011. This legislation would immediately help address the nation's energy, job, and financial crisis by unleashing domestic energy resources, creating thousands of well paying jobs and producing revenues that would begin paying down the $14 trillion deficit. WHO: Senator David Vitter and Congressman Rob Bishop NOTE: Other Senators and Representatives (TBA) will be joining Vitter and Bishop WHAT: Press conference to introduce 3-D: The Domestic Jobs, Domestic Energy, and Deficit Reduction Act of 2011 WHERE: U.S. Senate Senate Radio-TV Gallery, S-325, U.S. Capitol DATE: Thursday, March 31, 2011 TIME: 12:00 p.m. EDT
03.23.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today commended Uintah County and the Utah Association of Counties for their efforts to challenge the legal authority of the Department of Interior's (DOI) Secretarial Order #3310, which creates a controversial new Wild Lands designation for public lands. Congressman Bishop serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, which has oversight of our nation's federal land policies and the subsequent new Wild Lands designation proposed by DOI Secretary Ken Salazar. "States, counties, local officials and stakeholders were completely excluded from the discussion prior to Secretary Salazar's release of the Wild Lands policy. This was no doubt due to the fact that the Department of Interior knew how detrimental this policy would be to so many communities in Utah and throughout the West. As a direct result, communities and counties across the country are demanding that their voices be heard," said Bishop. Specifically, the complaint cites that the DOI has violated the terms of a 2003 settlement between former Interior Secretary Gale Norton and former Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt, which ordered the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to abandon a wilderness inventory conducted during the Clinton administration. Under federal law, Congress must approve new wilderness designations. The new Wild Lands policy, however, would allow the BLM to designate millions of acres of public lands with ‘wilderness characteristics' as Wild Lands, which would then apply a series of restrictive federal policies that will likely impede access and multiple use of the land, including energy production. "The only thing transparent about this administration is that the hard working people of Utah, like so many others across the country, can see right through the Wild Lands policy for what it really is- an end run around Congress to impose restrictive new policies on millions of acres of federal land. I applaud Uintah County and the Utah Association of Counties for clearly demonstrating the various legal flaws with the Wild Lands policy," Bishop added.
03.17.2011	In an effort to address rising gas prices, the House Natural Resources Committee today held an oversight hearing on "Harnessing American Resources to Create Jobs and Address Rising Gasoline Prices." Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves as Chairman of the subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, noted the abundant oil and gas supplies on federal lands that remain off-limits due to restrictive federal policies. "There is enough oil and natural gas on our onshore public lands alone to heat 60 million homes for 160 years and fuel 65 million cars for 60 years, yet restrictive federal policies prevent us from accessing these vital domestic resources-and under this Administration the situation is only getting worse. Providing access to resources currently off limits would create thousands of jobs, many in Utah. Today's gas prices and unaffordable home energy bills are further examples of the collateral damage that has resulted from the Administration's harmful policies," said Congressman Bishop. By the Numbers: 444 million: There are 444 million barrels of proved oil reserves on federal lands. Source: Bureau of Land Management26.3 trillion: There are approximately 26.3 trillion cubic feet of proved natural gas reserves on federal lands. 20 billion: More than 20 billion barrels of undiscovered recoverable oil resources exist on federal lands. Source: Bureau of Land Management45%: More than 45% of the total oil and gas resources on federal lands are inaccessible. Source: Bureau of Land Management 2.46 billion: The U.S. currently leases less than 4% of the 2.46 billion acre federal estate for oil and gas development. $3.55: The average per-gallon price of U.S. retail gasoline was $3.55 for the month of March. Source: U.S. Department of Energy800 billion: According to current estimates, oil shale reserves in Colorado, Utah and Wyoming contain 800 billion barrels of recoverable oil- more than three times the proven reserves of Saudi Arabia. Source: U.S. Department of Energy.
03.15.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today considered legislation known as a Continuing Resolution (CR) that would provide short-term funding of the federal government for FY 2011. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted in support of the legislation, which includes over six billion dollars in cuts. This bill funds the government for an additional three weeks, allowing for the necessary time to complete a final, long-term agreement for the remainder of the fiscal year. The passage of today's CR combined with the previous two CRs brings a total of $10 billion in cuts to federal funding. Specifically, H.J. Res. 48 includes $2 billion in cuts for each week of funding through government program recessions, reductions, and terminations. Each of the cuts in H.J. Res. 48 is included in H.R. 1, the initial CR passed by House Republicans. "Last month, House Republicans took the challenging but necessary steps to pass more than $60 billion in spending cuts for the remaining FY2011 budget. At present, these historic cuts sit idle in the Senate collecting dust as Senator Reid and President Obama continue to obstruct efforts to get the nation's fiscal house in order," said Congressman Bishop. "Short-term funding measures are not the preferable way to fund the government, but they are presently necessary due to the previous Democratic leadership's failure to pass a budget or appropriations bills during the 111th Congress. To date, I have voted in support of a guaranteed $10 billion in cuts that will become law, and I'll continue to join with my House Republican colleagues to cut more, get our staggering deficits under control and facilitate the continued recovery of our nation's economy." Click here for a list of cuts included in H.J.Res.48.
03.15.2011	Today, Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Bob Abbey held a conference call with media in an attempt to assuage nationwide unrest over the current Administration's obstructionist policies that have hindered domestic energy development both offshore and on our nation's public lands. House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) responded with the following statement: "Double speak is about the only reliable thing coming from the Department of Interior these days- you can set your clock by it. In a conference call touting energy production on public lands, Director Abbey reminded us that public lands are being re-inventoried under the new Wild Lands policy for the express purpose of determining whether or not new restrictions should be applied to them. There is simply no possible way that this Administration can argue that Wild Lands designations will not impact oil and gas production on our public lands. At a time when many families are struggling to pay their energy bills and gas prices are skyrocketing over four dollars per gallon, the last thing the DOI should be doing is finding new ways to limit the responsible development of energy on our nation's public lands, and that is exactly the purpose of the Wild Lands designation." -30-
03.11.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement regarding the 8.9 magnitude earthquake and tsunami in Japan. "Natural disasters such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan remind us that Mother Nature can unpredictably wield her power when the world least expects it. My heartfelt condolences go out to the residents and visitors of Japan and all those who who have been affected by this tragedy, they will remain in my thoughts and prayers." Information on the earthquake and tsunami in Japan: Updates can be found at http://www.travel.state.gov/congress as additional information becomes available. If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in Japan, you may send an e-mail to JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov. If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in the Tsunami zone outside of Japan, you may send an email to PacificTsunamiUSC@state.gov. E-mail inquiries are strongly preferred, but constituents may call the State Department's emergency assistance center at 1-888-407-4747 (Calling from outside the U.S. + 1-202-501-4444) if they are unable to use e-mail. If you would like information about LDS missionaries currently serving in Japan, please visit http://newsroom.lds.org for timely updates.
03.08.2011	Today, House Natural Resources National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) held an oversight hearing on the President's FY 2012 budget proposal and the spending, priorities, and missions of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and U.S. Forest Service. BLM Director Bob Abbey and U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell testified before the committee. "I remain exceptionally concerned with the current Administration's disingenuous efforts to acquire more land and restrict access to that which the federal government currently manages. Nearly 1 out of 3 acres in this country, approximately 29% of all land in the U.S., is already owned and controlled by the federal government. The last thing the federal government needs is more land and this is certainly the last thing for which we should be utilizing hard-earned tax dollars," said Congressman Bishop. "While I appreciate both Director Abbey and Chief Tidwell for appearing before the subcommittee today, many questions remain unanswered about the Wild Lands proposal, NLCS, efforts to acquire more land and other policies that have had a detrimental impact on Western and rural economies, especially with regards to job creation." During the hearing Congressman Bishop expressed concern for many of the Forest Service and BLM programs and priorities outlined in the President's budget. Specifically, he noted that: The President's budget includes $230 million and $50 million for land acquisition for the U.S. Forest Service and BLM respectively. The Forest Service budget cuts funding for essential programs such as those dedicated to wildfire suppression and for the continued access and operation of our forests solely to free-up funds for land acquisition. The BLM budget includes an increase of $15 million over FY 2011 levels for the duplicative National Landscape and Conservation System (NLCS). The BLM budget diverts critical land management funds to the Secretary's newly created "Wild Lands" program After millions of dollars were spent traveling the country to promote the President's "America's Great Outdoors" initiative, the only tangible result from the meetings seem to be a report recommending more land acquisition. The requested $50 for the BLM is a $20 million increase over the previous fiscal year.
03.02.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) introduced legislation [H.R. 868] today in the U.S. House of Representatives to require the U.S. Census Bureau to provide all American citizens living abroad with an opportunity to be counted during the decennial census. Currently, the Census Bureau only officially counts members of the U.S. military or federal workers living abroad, excluding thousands of private U.S. residents serving temporary overseas assignments. Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) is the original co-sponsor of the House legislation and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) will be introducing companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. "Our founding fathers sought to ensure that all U.S. citizens were counted in the census so they could be given a voice back in Washington D.C. with adequate representation. Failure to afford all Americans with the opportunity to be counted is not fair and can have a negative impact on certain states, as we saw a decade ago in Utah. The Bureau could have addressed this issue earlier but instead have chosen to turn their backs on the problem," said Congressman Rob Bishop. "I introduced this legislation to fix the problem, prevent this from occurring in other states, and to ensure that all Americans, regardless of whether or not they are serving abroad on a temporary assignment, can be adequately accounted for by the U.S. Census." The exclusion of private U.S. residents serving abroad on temporary assignments has not always been the federal government's policy. In fact, since 1830 the Census Bureau has at various times enumerated private U.S. citizens living overseas. In the 1960 and 1970 censuses, the Census Bureau allowed for the voluntary reporting of private U.S. citizens living abroad for an extended period who were not affiliated with the federal government. In the four decennial censuses since then, the Census Bureau has only counted federal employees, their dependents, and the crews of merchant vessels living overseas. "Most Americans would be baffled to learn that the Census today is not even designed to count all Americans. The Constitution calls the Census an ‘actual enumeration,' and that's exactly what it should be. It makes no sense to count Americans overseas who do not plan to live in America, but not to count those who do. Thousands of church missionaries and Utah residents leave every year to temporarily live abroad who don't get counted in the Census. It's time to change that unfair and counterproductive practice. If the Census had been done the right way in 2000, Utah would already have additional representation in Congress," said Senator Orrin Hatch. The legislation specifically instructs the Census Bureau to allow for the voluntary enumeration of private, overseas Americans in two ways: 1) Through the use of verifiable, administrative records submitted by an organization with members who are Americans living overseas. 2) By means of an international "Be Counted" form available at all U.S. embassies. "The US Census has a constitutional mandate to count every person. Its past practices have been exclusionary and perhaps even detrimental to the State of Utah. For an agency that prides itself on its ability to count, it has too often failed to enumerate certain citizens temporarily living abroad. Temporary overseas assignments should not exclude persons from this constitutionally mandated process. I'm proud to cosponsor this bill. It's a logical approach that brings fairness back to the Census," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. -30-
02.28.2011	Tomorrow, March 1st , Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will join with his colleagues on the House Natural Resources Committee to hold an oversight hearing on Secretarial Order No. 3310, the Department of Interior's (DOI) recently introduced "Wild Lands" proposal. The hearing will specifically examine "The Impact of the Administration's Wild Lands Order on Jobs and Economic Growth." Last Friday, February 25, 2011 the DOI released the official manuals and guidelines for state BLM officials to use when considering areas that exhibit wilderness characteristics as possible new "Wild Lands" areas. "This is a prime example of why Congress must exercise vigorous oversight of the Obama Administration," said Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings. "The Wild Lands policy expressly circumvents Congress' statutory authority to establish Wilderness areas. Under this policy, the public's access to public lands can be limited or halted entirely – impacting our economy, jobs, recreation opportunities and American energy production. Millions of acres of multi-use land in the West are at risk of being locked-up if the Administration carries out this policy." "There are so many unanswered questions surrounding the creation of the new Wild Lands designation and this Administration's plans to redo many of the recently completed inventories of public lands," said National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop. "In Utah, for example, the BLM just completed an open, seven-year, twenty million dollar process to create resource management plans. Now, this Administration is saying they want to start over. There are thousands of Americans, especially out West, who question the wisdom of such an action and who will be affected by this unilateral secretarial order. We believe this new policy raises a number of troubling questions and that this hearing will be instrumental in bringing greater clarity to the situation." WHAT: Full Committee Hearing on "The Impact of the Administration's Wild Lands Order on Jobs and Economic Growth" Witnesses: The Honorable Butch Otter, Governor of Idaho The Honorable Gary Herbert, Governor of Utah Additional witnesses to be announced WHEN: Tuesday, March 1, 2011@ 2:00 PM WHERE: 1324 Hearing Room in the Longworth House Office Building Background: · Two days before Christmas last year, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar issued Secretarial Order No. 3310 asserting that the Bureau of Land Management has the authority to "designate appropriate areas with wilderness characteristics under its jurisdiction as ‘Wild Lands' and to manage them to protect their wilderness value." · The Wilderness Act of 1964 gives only Congress the authority to designate public lands as Wilderness areas. The Administration does not have the legal authority to impose policies to create de facto Wilderness. · Designating an area as Wilderness imposes the most restrictive land use policies that can be taken. It places severe limitations on public access, prohibits many popular forms of recreation and severely restricts job-creating, and energy-producing activities. Visit the Committee Hearings webpage for testimony and additional information, once it is made available. The hearing is open to the public and a live stream will be broadcast at http://naturalresources.house.gov/live.
02.24.2011	Today the U.S. Census Bureau released detailed population information for the State of Utah. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement in response to the Census Bureau's data: "I'm proud of our state's growth over the past decade. We all know Utah is well managed, is a great place to visit and an even better place to live and raise a family," said Congressman Bishop. "However, while we continue to make great progress each year, I remain concerned that thousands of American citizens living or working abroad who are not military or federal employees are not adequately accounted for the by the U.S. Census Bureau. The Bureau could have fixed this problem by now but it refuses to. This issue must be addressed before the next census begins, which is why I will be introducing legislation in the coming weeks to implement a new process that will ensure all American residents, either here in the U.S. or those temporarily living abroad, are included in all final census data." Click here to review the U.S. Census Bureau's final population statistics for the state of Utah
02.22.2011	On Tuesday, March 1st the House Natural Resources Committee will hold a Full Committee oversight hearing on "The Impact of the Administration's Wild Lands Order on Jobs and Economic Growth." The Wild Lands policy, established by Secretarial Order, is an attempt by the Interior Department to establish de facto Wilderness areas without Congressional approval. "This is a prime example of why Congress must exercise vigorous oversight of the Obama Administration," said Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings. "The Wild Lands policy expressly circumvents Congress' statutory authority to establish Wilderness areas. Under this policy, the public's access to public lands can be limited or halted entirely – impacting our economy, jobs, recreation opportunities and American energy production. Millions of acres of multi-use land in the West are at risk of being locked-up if the Administration carries out this policy." "There are so many unanswered questions surrounding the creation of the new Wild Lands designation and this Administration's plans to redo many of the recently completed inventories of public lands," said National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Chairman Rob Bishop. "In Utah, for example, the BLM just completed an open, seven-year, twenty million dollar process to create resource management plans. Now, this Administration is saying they want to start over. There are thousands of Americans, especially out West, who question the wisdom of such an action and who will be affected by this unilateral secretarial order. We believe this new policy raises a number of troubling questions and that this hearing will be instrumental in bringing greater clarity to the situation." WHAT: Full Committee Hearing on "The Impact of the Administration's Wild Lands Order on Jobs and Economic Growth" Witnesses: The Honorable Butch Otter, Governor of Idaho The Honorable Gary Herbert, Governor of Utah Additional witnesses to be announced WHEN: Tuesday, March 1, 2011 2:00 PM WHERE: 1324 Hearing Room in the Longworth House Office Building Background: · Two days before Christmas last year, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar issued Secretarial Order No. 3310 asserting that the Bureau of Land Management has the authority to "designate appropriate areas with wilderness characteristics under its jurisdiction as ‘Wild Lands' and to manage them to protect their wilderness value." · The Wilderness Act of 1964 gives only Congress the authority to designate public lands as Wilderness areas. The Administration does not have the legal authority to impose policies to create de facto Wilderness. · Designating an area as Wilderness imposes the most restrictive land use policies that can be taken. It places severe limitations on public access, prohibits many popular forms of recreation and severely restricts job-creating, and energy-producing activities. Visit the Committee Hearings webpage for testimony and additional information, once it is made available. The hearing is open to the public and a live stream will be broadcast at http://naturalresources.house.gov/live. # # # http://naturalresources.house.gov/ Facebook | YouTube | Twitter
02.17.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) joined with Senators John Barrasso (R-WY) and Mark Udall (D-CO) as well as fellow Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) to introduce the Ski Area Recreation Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011, which amends the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986. This legislation would change permitting for ski areas on National Forest Service lands to allow for year round recreation, which would increase tourism and job creation. "Utah is a premier winter recreation destination and offers some of the most legendary skiing in the world. The same mountains and unique geography that draw visitors from around the globe each winter also offer a vast array of off-season recreational opportunities. However, outdated laws are prohibiting these areas from offering year-round recreational access. Updating the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act will foster increased tourism, encourage job growth and bolster mountain economies across the country," said Congressman Bishop. "While Congress can't create jobs by itself, we can improve laws and create a more certain and rationale regulatory climate that will enable private enterprise to create jobs. This law does just that." The 1986 law currently limits only ski-related activities in Forest Service ski areas. The proposed legislation would amend and update the law, to include other recreational snow sports other than alpine and Nordic skiing, such as snowboarding. Additionally, the bill would authorize the Forest Service to allow year-round activities beyond the winter months. These changes will bring increased stability to seasonal economies and provide additional job opportunities throughout our mountain communities. "Tourism is a top economic driver for Colorado, but because many of our ski areas are limited to providing recreational opportunities during the winter months only, many ski towns swing between thriving winters and slumping shoulder seasons every year," Udall said. "This bill will bolster mountain economies by enabling the Forest Service to permit more use during the off-seasons. Our appreciation of the wilderness should not be constrained to one season out of the year; opening the door to more—responsible—recreational opportunities can bring to ski-area communities more jobs and economic stability." "Ski areas are a key part of Wyoming's recreation and tourism industry," Barrasso said. "By expanding Forest Service permits to include year round recreational opportunities, our bill will create jobs, increase tourism and provide an added boost to local economies." "This bill will not only increase recreational opportunities but also expand business opportunities and jobs. Year-round recreational activity will provide substantial benefits to our local economies, and help create stable jobs in the thirteen states that are currently home to ski resorts on public land," DeGette said. "In Colorado, outdoor activities such as skiing, snowboarding, mountain biking, and hiking are an intrinsic part of our everyday lives throughout the year. With this bill, tourists can join us in those activities, no longer visiting only in the winter and looking elsewhere for amenities in the summer."
02.16.2011	As part of the Republican effort to reduce wasteful and redundant budgetary spending, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) has introduced an amendment that would prevent taxpayer funds within the Continuing Resolution from being used to fund the duplicative National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS). The NLCS was first established by executive fiat under Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Bruce Babbitt in 2000 as an additional layer of bureaucracy within the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The NLCS was later granted statutory authority under the controversial Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009. "The NLCS has created an unnecessary, costly, and confusing two-tiered system within the BLM that clouds the BLM's historic mission. I have yet to see a compelling example of how our nation benefits from adding another expensive layer of bureaucracy to the management of our public lands. Millions of dollars are wasted each year at the NLCS to fund a superfluous and unnecessary bureaucracy. Cutting spending is never easy but if we are to make long-term systemic changes we must identify redundancies and turn those wasted dollars into savings for the taxpayer," said Congressman Bishop. In 2008, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) obtained documents that led the DOI Office of Inspector General (OIG) to launch an investigation examining the activities of NLCS employees suspected to be violating anti-lobbying laws and engaging in inappropriate relationships with outside special interest groups. In correspondence with BLM Director Bob Abbey, acting inspector general Mary Kendall said, "Our investigation determined that numerous activities and communication took place between NLCS officials and nongovernmental organizations (NGO), including discussions about the NLCS budget and BLM editing brochures and producing fact sheets for a specific NGO. We also uncovered a general disregard for establishing and maintaining boundaries among the various entities." *The OIG noted that a NLCS staff member asked a representative of the National Wildlife Federation (NWF) to influence legislation before Congress involving the protection of some areas in New Mexico. Federal law bars federal employees from trying to shape legislation. "Not only does the NLCS waste taxpayer funds, it also has a track record of ethical wrongdoing. An IG report has found that the NLCS regularly engaged in unacceptable and improper collaboration between government employees and influential environmental groups. This is unacceptable and further emphasizes that we would be better off saving these tax dollars than giving them to the NLCS to fund their efforts to fulfill the agendas of radical special interest groups," Bishop added.
02.14.2011	Click here to view President Obama's proposed FY 2012 Budget
02.14.2011	As nationwide opposition to the U.S. Department of Interior's (DOI) Wild Lands policy continues to grow, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today praised the House Appropriations Committee for including a provision within the House Continuing Resolution (CR) that would cease all funding for Secretarial Order 3310, the DOI's hasty new "Wild Lands" proposal which seeks to unilaterally designate what amounts to "de facto" wilderness areas on BLM lands. Bishop serves as Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and remains a stalwart advocate in Congress for public land users and communities and has helped lead efforts to reverse the Wild Lands policy since it was announced. "Cutting funding for the Wild Lands policy is an important first step as we seek to stop this Administration from tightening its heavy-handed bureaucratic stranglehold on public land communities and users across this country. I thank Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID) for taking the lead on this provision and I look forward to fighting the Wild Lands policy all the way to its ultimate extinction," said Congressman Bishop. Under the DOI's new Wild Lands policy, more than 220 million acres of unclassified multiple use lands would be subject to further review to determine whether or not they can be classified as "Wild Lands." If the lands are determined to be eligible for the new classification, they would then be subject to new land management regulations that restrict multiple use and access. "It should come as no surprise to Secretary Salazar that communities and stakeholders across the country, especially in the West, are outraged by this new proposal. The DOI unilaterally moved forward in announcing the policy without the participation or buy-in from local officials, communities, industries and stakeholders who would be affected by new Wild Lands designation. You can't blame them. They were left in the dark and what you are seeing in Congress is a direct result of the frustration that so many feel about the manner in which this policy came about. Poor process always produces poor product," Bishop stated. *The specific provision regarding funding of Secretarial Order No. 3310 can be found in section 1778 of the House CR. -30-
02.08.2011	As House leaders examine ways to cut spending and address the ever growing budget deficits that have plagued Washington for years, U.S. Representatives Bill Posey (R-FL), Sandy Adams (R-FL) and Rob Bishop (R-UT) were joined by several other of their colleagues in calling for a reprioritization of NASA so human space flight remains the primary focus of the nation's space agency as budget cuts are considered. In their recent letter to House Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers (R-KY) and Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA), Posey and Adams state that while "moving forward under a constrained budget, it will be critical for the Appropriations Committee to produce legislation that is precise in its budget cuts. For years, Presidents and Congress have charged NASA with completing tasks that fall outside the scope of NASA's primary mission. "Our space program attracts and inspires the world's greatest minds and gives our young people inspiration to excel in math and science. Human spaceflight, however, is not simply a matter of national prestige. Our nation's ability to access space is a critical national security asset and plays an important role in our future economic competitiveness. Space is the ultimate high ground and nations such as China, Russia, and India are anxious to seize the mantle of space supremacy should we decide to cede it." "Limited resources force us to make important decisions with regard to the objectives of all federal departments and agencies, including NASA," said Representative Bill Posey (R-FL). "NASA's primary purpose is human space exploration and directing NASA funds to study global warming undermines our ability to maintain our competitive edge in human space flight." "As NASA's human spaceflight program hangs in the balance, it is imperative that we ask ourselves: What is the future of NASA? With the current administration unable or unwilling to outline a plan or stick to their original promises, it is time to refocus NASA's mission towards space exploration," said Representative Sandy Adams (R-FL). "That is why I am encouraging Chairmen Rogers and Wolf to reduce funding for climate change research, which undercuts one of NASA's primary and most important objectives of human spaceflight." "It is counterintuitive to direct millions of dollars to NASA for duplicative climate change programs and at the same time cancel its manned space flight program- the purpose for which the agency was originally created. Far too many forget that at one time in our nation's history we were losing the space race. With the creation of NASA, we emerged as leaders and have remained so ever since. If NASA's manned space program disappears, our nation will once again experience a ‘Sputnik Moment.' Our country will again watch from the sidelines as countries like Russia, China and India charge ahead as leaders in space exploration and missile defense," said Representative Rob Bishop (R-UT). In Fiscal Year 2010, NASA spent over 7.5% —over a billion dollars— of its budget on studying global warming/climate change. The bulk of the funds NASA received in the stimulus went toward climate change studies. Excessive growth of climate change research has not been limited to NASA. Overall, the government spent over $8.7 billion across 16 Agencies and Departments throughout the federal government on these efforts in FY 2010 alone. Global warming funding presents an opportunity to reduce spending without unduly impacting NASA's core human spaceflight mission. A copy of the letter can be viewed HERE. ###
01.28.2011	Outgoing Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop(R-UT) and Senate Western Caucus Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY), along with 47 House Members and eight Senators, sent a letter to Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar today requesting that he withdraw Secretarial Order 3310, which creates a new Wild Lands classification for public lands. The letter cautions that the DOI's Wild Lands policy will destroy jobs and severely handicap local economies. "I am increasingly concerned by Secretary Salazar's and the current Administration's ongoing efforts to circumvent Congress when it comes to creating new public lands policies. The DOI's unilateral decisions regarding the management of our public lands and resources are detrimental to communities and businesses throughout the West. Their lack of regard for the impact this will have on local economies is unacceptable. It is time that they start taking into consideration the people that will be hurt by their decisions to operate in a vacuum, starting with the withdrawal of Secretarial Order 3310," said Congressman Bishop. ""Why would anyone who wears a cowboy hat and boots in public work in private to hurt ranchers, outdoorsman and other western industries that depend upon access to our public lands. It makes no sense." Excerpts of the letter: This directive will significantly impact western economies and rural communities, which depend on multiple-use access to federal lands. We are also concerned that because this action was taken without input from Members of Congress and local officials, who would be affected by the order, the prospects of a cooperative working relationship about wilderness have been damaged. We believe this order represents a considerable departure from the method for designating lands as "Wilderness Areas" specified in the Wilderness Act of 1964. As you know, the Wilderness Act gives the U.S. Congress -- and only the U.S. Congress -- the power to designate public lands as protected "Wilderness Areas." Secretarial Order 3310 appears to be an underhanded attempt by DOI to circumvent Congress and the federal rulemaking process… We believe public lands should be managed in a way that provides the greatest benefit to the public. Multiple-use has been the bedrock for many rural western economies for decades. This new "wild lands" policy introduces more uncertainty and will arbitrarily delay the reasonable use and development of our public lands. In order to prevent a collapse of several rural economies in the West and forestall continued uncertainty and job loss in western public land states, we urge you to withdraw Secretarial Order 3310 and work with Congress to devise balanced policies for our public lands. View the full list of Representatives and Senators who supported the letter here
01.27.2011	Today, a bipartisan coalition of House Members joined together to introduce legislation [H.R. 509] that will remove the Gray Wolf from consideration under the Endangered Special Act (ESA). The following four lead members Denny Rehberg (R-MT), Jim Matheson (D-UT), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Mike Ross (D-AR) are calling for new management regime for the gray wolf that will empower state and local officials to create and implement recovery plans on a state by state basis. "The gray wolf isn't endangered, which is why Republicans and Democrats alike are joining forces to end the misuse of the Endangered Species Act to advance extremist policy agendas," said Rehberg, a rancher from Billings. "I heard from thousands of Montanans, and folks get it. They know that states are better at managing our own local wildlife than the federal government thousands of miles away. Unless there's a darn good reason – and there's not – the federal government has no business getting involved. Years of research, dedicated efforts by land owners and local officials, and the expert opinions of on-the-ground wildlife managers have been given a back seat to profit-motivated environmental groups. We need to end this abuse and solve an issue that should have been put to rest years ago." "Scientists and wolf recovery advocates agree – the gray wolf is back. Since it is no longer endangered, it should be de-listed as a species, managed as others species are--by state wildlife agencies-- and time, money and effort can be focused where it's needed," said Matheson. "The ESA should be based on sound science, not a political agenda; but it is clear that Washington has caved to environmentalists determined to prevent the gray wolf's delisting. We need a balanced and reasonable approach to wolf management that is carried out by the proper officials: Wyoming's on the ground experts. As long as wolves continue to hurt Wyoming's livestock owners and attack large game herds, I will continue to fight for this predator's delisting," said Lummis. "Wildlife recovery is a very important and very sensitive issue and I believe the federal government should listen to state and local wildlife officials in these matters," said Ross, who is also Co-Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus. "Excessive wolf populations are having a devastating impact on elk, moose, deer and other species and each state has its own unique set of challenges. Both the Obama and Bush Administrations have already recommended the de-listing of wolves in many states and turning their management over to state wildlife agencies because it is the right thing to do to keep our nation's sensitive ecosystem in balance." The following 12 Members are also original sponsors of the legislation: 1) Rob Bishop (R-UT) 2) Leonard Boswell (D-IA) 3) Paul Broun (R-GA) 4) Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) 5) Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) 6) Dean Heller (R-NV) 7) John Kline (R-MN) 8) Mike Simpson (R-ID) 9) Greg Walden (R-OR) 10) Don Young (R-AK) 11) Dan Boren (D-OK) 12) Raul Labrador (R-ID) -30-
01.26.2011	Today, Members of the Congressional Western Caucus joined together to unanimously name Congressman Steve Pearce (R-NM) as the new Chairman and Congressman Dean Heller (R-NV) as Vice-Chairman of the Caucus for the 112th Congress. Outgoing Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) announced that he is stepping down to fulfill his duties as the new Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. "I thank my colleagues for the honor of leading this caucus," Congressman Pearce stated. "For too long, many Members of Congress, the Executive Branch, and other groups and organizations have chosen to ignore the fundamental principles that are so important to our constitutional liberties. Nothing is more western than private property rights and the ability to work for a living, and these very freedoms have come under fierce attack. As chairman, I will defend the values that are the building blocks of the Republic. In my frequent travels around New Mexico, I am always reminded of the suffering faced by New Mexicans as jobs are taxed out of existence. I am absolutely convinced that now is time to take back our economic and constitutional rights. The time has come to lead the charge, rebuilding the industries and economies obliterated by overregulation, and speaking out for hard-working Americans. As Chairman, I will work diligently to unite Members who will focus the policy debate on common-sense environmental and natural resource policy." Congressman Heller stated that, "With nearly 85% of Nevada federally controlled, federal public land policies and management have a direct impact on my constituents. There will be many issues impacting western states over the next two years. Whether we are fighting for public land access or responsible resource development for job creation, it is essential that western Members of Congress stand together and work for our common interests." "For nearly two decades, the Congressional Western Caucus has provided advocacy and leadership in Congress on issues that impact western and rural communities and industries. My decision to step down as Chairman comes as I take on new responsibilities with the House Rules Committee and as Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. I am grateful to have had the opportunity to serve as Chairman and am proud of our ongoing and collective efforts to protect the livelihoods of all westerners. While I will no longer serve as Chairman, I will continue to be actively involved in the Western Caucus as we continue to fight for improved access to our public lands, increased research and development of our abundant energy resources and job creation for all. As both Chairman of the Subcommittee and a Member of the Western Caucus, I will continue to advocate that economic growth and responsible stewardship of our natural resources are not mutually exclusive and can be accomplished through balanced reforms. I am confident that both Rep. Pearce and Rep. Heller will provide exceptional leadership," said Congressman Bishop. The Congressional Western Caucus was established in 1993 during the 103rd Congress to enhance, sustain, and preserve the West's dynamic and unique culture, and to find innovative solutions that address the distinctive concerns facing western and rural communities.
01.25.2011	Tonight, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement after President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. "I was pleased to hear the President acknowledge the need to reduce wasteful spending and reevaluate funding for many redundant programs. I also applaud the President for recognizing that long-term job creation must be a priority during the next Congress- I couldn't agree more. Unfortunately, similar rhetoric was spoken by the President during last year's State of the Union address and yet unemployment remains unacceptably high. "Unprecedented levels of spending, new taxes and stifling regulations are draining resources necessary for businesses to create jobs across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues under the new majority to implement long-term pro-business polices that will help put Americans back to work. I hope the President will join in these efforts. "Over the past two years Utah's job market, like much of the West, was devastated by waves of new regulations and policies that targeted the energy industry as well as public land users. Thousands were put out of work as their jobs were exported overseas. While I commend the President for his desire to implement a diverse energy portfolio by 2035, I hope that he will not discriminate certain industries over others. It is essential that as a nation we utilize all diverse and abundant natural energy resources. Failure to do so will result in further reliance on foreign and unstable sources. "The President's message of Sputnik and the Soviets excellence in space exploration was ironic. He was correct in noting that because of our lack of an established space program, our country fell behind in exploration of the Cosmos. To address this and ensure that the U.S. never again lagged in the global innovation and science race, NASA was established. Through the cutting edge and innovative space exploration programs we were the first country to put a man on the moon. However, while the President is calling for ‘new levels of research and development that haven't been seen since the Space Race' his Administration is also calling for the termination of our nation's manned space program- a program whose science and technology research is an essential component of our nation's missile defense program. Terminating this program, including the Constellation program, would cede our leadership in space exploration over to countries like China, Russia and India. Again, ironically, these are the same countries that, as he noted tonight, are rising as global leaders in innovation and technology. It would be counterproductive to abandon our role as leaders in space exploration. "I share many of the goals the President mentioned this evening, especially the emphasis on improving education across the nation and incentivizing a new generation of committed educators. I can attest that outside of being a husband and father, being an educator is one of the greatest achievements of my life. I also support the President's goals of energy innovation and look forward to a collective partnership with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help put this nation on a path toward true energy independence. "As the President mentioned, we must take on these challenges from an entirely new approach. Previous practices from the past two years proved to be failures and did little to address the priorities of this country. I look forward to working over the next two years with my colleagues in the House and Senate to hold the President accountable to the commitments he made tonight."
01.19.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted today in support of legislation [H.R. 2] that would repeal the Democrat's health care law. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. "I am proud to be a part of the efforts to repeal this misguided, unconstitutional law. The passage of this legislation is a necessary first step toward restoring freedom for all Americans to choose how to best address their personal healthcare needs," said Congressman Bishop. "The federal government has absolutely no business dictating what healthcare one can or cannot have." The following are among the key reasons why repeal of the Democrat healthcare law is important: · Despite President Obama's promise that Americans can keep their current insurance if they so choose, the reality is that 87 million Americans, including those who get their insurance through their employers, could lose their current coverage. *Source: Interim Final Rule by Depts. Labor, Treasury and Health and Human Services on grandfathered health plans, Federal Register, Vol. 75, No. 116, June 17, 2010, page 34553, [here] · The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that health insurance premiums in the individual market will increase by 10 to 13 percent under the Democrat's healthcare law. *Source: CBO letter to Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN), November 30, 2009. [here] · The Democrat's healthcare law raises taxes on American taxpayers by over $500 billion. *Source: Heritage Foundation, "Obamcare: Impact on Taxpayers." [here] · Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi promised that the Democrat healthcare law would create 4 million jobs, including 400,000 immediately. Unemployment remains nearly 10% and according to a study by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), an employer mandate such as the one included in the healthcare law could actually eliminate an additional 1.6 million jobs by 2014 (66% of those jobs losses could come from small businesses). *Sources: National Federation of Independent Business [here] · The healthcare law cuts $575 billion from Medicare to pay for a new entitlement. Democrats falsely claim that the new law extends the solvency of Medicare. This false claim is based on double-counting of the Medicare cuts – using them once to pay for the new entitlement and another time to claim the solvency of Medicare is extended. The Obama Administration's own Chief Actuary distanced himself from this false claim, stating: "The same lower expenditures and additional revenues extending the exhaustion date of the [Medicare] trust…cannot be simultaneously used to finance other Federal outlays (such as the coverage expansion) and to extend the trust fund…." *Source: Richard Foster, Chief Actuary, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service, "Estimated Financial Effects of the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,' as Amended," April 22, 2010, Page 2. [here] Note: The Democrats' health reform law cuts $575 billion from the Medicare program but did nothing to address the cuts in reimbursement to physicians in Medicare that threatens seniors' access to care. The Democrats decided to omit a fix to the Medicare physician payment system to make the score look smaller. Devastates the popular Medicare Advantage program. · The healthcare law imposes a $200 billion reduction in the popular Medicare Advantage program to pay for the new entitlement, forcing over 7 million seniors out of their current plans. *Source: Richard Foster, Chief Actuary, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service, "Estimated Financial Effects of the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,' as Amended," April 22, 2010, Page 11. [here] · Despite President Obama's promise, 7.5 million seniors will lose their retiree drug coverage, even if they like it and depend on it in their retirement. *Source: 2010 Annual Report of the Medicare Trustees, page 187. [here] · The federal government and the country will spend $310 billion more on healthcare costs under the current law. *Source: Richard Foster, Chief Actuary, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service, "Estimated Financial Effects of the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,' as Amended," April 22, 2010, Pages 10, 15. [here] · American taxpayers will end up footing the bill for abortions. The healthcare law ended a thirty-year bipartisan effort to prevent American taxpayers' money from funding abortions. *Source: U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, "Legal Analysis of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Corresponding Executive Order Regarding Abortion Funding and Conscience Protection." [here] · The Democrat healthcare law will increase the federal budget deficit by over $550 billion in the first ten years of the law and then by $1.4 trillion prepared by the Energy and Commerce Committee in the following ten years. *Source: Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Cameron Smith, "Labor Markets and Health Care Reform." [here]
01.12.2011	Today, House Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier (R-CA) announced that Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) will serve on the Rules Committee for the 112th Congress. Bishop previously served on the Committee during the 109th Congress. As a member of the GOP Majority Transition Team created after the last election, Bishop served as Leader of the working group on reforms of Conference and House rules. "I am honored to have the opportunity to once again serve on the House Rules Committee and look forward to working with Speaker Boehner, Chairman Dreier and my colleagues on the committee to implement the historic new reforms made to the House Rules for the 112th Congress. These changes will greatly improve the way we do business in Washington and will make Congress more accountable to the American people. For too long the priorities of this country – particularly in creating jobs and reducing government spending - have gone ignored and I am looking forward to being a part of the process to put this country back on track," said Bishop. Bishop joins returning members Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX) and Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC), as well as new members Congressmen Rob Woodall (R-GA), Rich Nugent (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Daniel Webster (R-FL). One more Majority member is expected to join the Committee in the next few weeks. "Rob Bishop is a natural addition to our new Majority on the House Rules Committee," Dreier said. "He was an excellent member when he served here previously and he has since proven himself to be one of the most thoughtful, diligent members of the House. He led the effort, along with Transition Chairman Greg Walden, to reform the House Rules and make our work more transparent and accountable to the American people. I welcome him back to the Rules Committee and look forward to his leadership in the 112th Congress." In December, Congressman Bishop was appointed Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. Bishop will maintain his Chairmanship while serving on the Rules Committee. -30-
01.06.2011	In an 11th hour move one day after Congress adjourned for the year, Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) officials announced a new policy allowing the BLM to designate public lands as de facto wilderness without the approval of states or Congress. The new policy, which overturns the Utah Wilderness Settlement Agreement, will allow the BLM to do an end-run around Congress by designating public lands as "Wild Lands" areas. These new areas would be subject to similar regulations and restrictions as that of wilderness areas. "Secretary Salazar's decision to change the existing policy is a blatant attempt to usurp Congress' role over public land management. The Constitution gives exclusive control of the public lands to Congress, and the only authority that the Executive branch agencies exercise over the federal lands is that which is delegated by Congress," said Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop. "Make no mistake about it, this decision will seriously hinder domestic energy development and further contributes to the uncertainty and economic distress that continues to prevent the creation of new jobs in a region that has unduly suffered from this Administration's radical policies. This is little more than an early Christmas present to the far left extremists who oppose the multiple use of our nation's public lands." Today's announcement directly contradicts previous assurances Secretary Salazar gave to Congress that the Utah Wilderness Settlement Agreement is consistent with federal law, thus validating that agencies do not have the authority to create de facto wilderness. "It was only yesterday that President Obama spoke about the importance of cooperation. Yet today his administration has turned around and deliberately slapped western communities in the face. It has become commonplace that this Administration attempts to arbitrarily regulate that which they cannot successfully legislate. Unfortunately, this is the kind of doublespeak we have come to expect from this administration," Bishop added. "In order to work cooperatively, we need to trust one another. The announcement today calls into question whether Secretary Salazar's word can be trusted," Bishop concluded. "I am concerned that today's decision puts the prospects of future congressional designation of wilderness at serious risk." -30-
01.06.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today recognized the official groundbreaking for construction of the National Security Agency's (NSA) National Data Center project located at Camp Williams, Utah. The NSA serves as Executive Agent for the greater U.S. intelligence community The construction of this new facility, estimated at nearly $2 billion, is one of the largest federal construction projects in Utah's history. The project is set to employ anywhere between 5,000 and 10,000 workers throughout the various stages for both general and subcontractors and will also employ on a permanent basis anywhere from 200 to 500 highly skilled local civilian workers. "Construction of the NSA Data Center at Camp Williams will be exceptionally beneficial to Utah. Not only will it provide thousands of construction jobs, it will also bring hundreds of new and much needed long-term jobs for Utahns. This is such an important project for our state as we continue to weather these tough economic times," said Bishop. While many details regarding specifics of the project and its operations are classified, the NSA has stated publicly that the facility will assist in helping the U.S. with electronic intelligence gathering as well as national defense efforts against the growing threats of cyber attacks. "I am proud that Utah will be home to one of the most important facilities in our country dedicated to the defense of our nation against growing threats of terrorism and cyber warfare," Bishop added. "I was pleased to join with the rest of Utah's Congressional delegation in helping to secure the approvals necessary for this project to go forward and I will continue to support its continuing and vital role in our nation's defense." Congressman Bishop is unable to attend today's ceremony in person due to Congressional duties and obligations in Washington, D.C.
01.05.2011	NOTE: Congressman Bishop delivered remarks today before the House of Representatives on the importance of the new House Rules Package.click here to view Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) joined with his Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives to approve a new set of rules by which the House will be governed in the 112th Congress. House Resolution 5 (H. Res. 5) was created in part from the work of the 22-Member GOP Majority Transition Team led by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR). Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) served as Leader of the Transition Team's working group on reforms of Conference and House rules. "I, along with many of my fellow Republican colleagues and even some Democrats who advised the transition team, recognized that changes were necessary in order to improve the way Washington does business. I am confident that these historic changes to the rules that govern the House will improve the accountability and accessibility of all Members, and therefore strengthen the relationship between this chamber and the American people," said Congressman Rob Bishop. As a Member of the Transition Team, Congressman Bishop helped author and champion the following provisions, among others, which are included in the final Rules package: Constitutional Citation Requirement: The rules package requires a sponsor of any bill or joint resolution to submit for the Congressional Record "a statement citing as specifically as practicable the power or powers granted to Congress to enact the bill or joint resolution." This is a requirement in order to introduce the legislation. For a Senate bill or joint resolution being considered by the House, the chair of the committee of jurisdiction would be allowed to submit the statement. Three-Day Layover: The rules package includes a point of order against any unreported bill that has not been available to Members for three calendar days. The similar requirement on reported bills, as well as conference reports, remains in place. "A better process equals a better product. This rules package will lead to more predictability, more member input, and perhaps most importantly, more connections with those who sent us here to represent them. What the American people want is less spending and less government control and intrusion in their lives. The reforms we have now adopted will set up a process where those things can be accomplished," Bishop added. Bishop was also one of the earliest backers and sponsors of the following new reforms to the daily congressional schedule and annual calendar: Annual Congressional Calendar: Members will generally work for two or three weeks in Washington and then have one full week to work back in the district each month. Schedule while in Session: Floor votes will occur only between 1 p.m. and 7 p.m., allowing committees a less fettered chunk of time to do their business. *Click here to read Rep. Bishop's Op-ed on reforms to the congressional workweek. (POLITICO, 7/28/10) Click here for further summary of the reforms included in the new House Rules Package.
01.05.2011	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) was sworn into the House of Representatives for the 112th Congress today by Speaker of the House John Boehner (OH-08). Today's swearing in ceremony will mark the beginning of Bishop's fifth term as Congressman for Utah's First Congressional District. "It is an honor to continue serving as the Representative for Utah's First Congressional District. "For more than two years now, Utahns and Americans across the country have taken necessary steps to tighten their fiscal belts because it was the prudent and responsible course of action. Just as the American people have done, Congress must also follow suit and rein in the undisciplined and wasteful spending of hard-earned tax dollars. "I am honored to be part of the historic 112th Congress and new Republican majority, and will endeavor to ensure that the priorities of Utahns and all Americans are addressed first and foremost. I will work with my fellow colleagues to promote policies that respect our constitutionally protected freedoms and that will enable hard-working Americans to flourish in a free enterprise based economy. "I look forward to being a part of the efforts that will unleash America's full potential and put our country back on track toward improved prosperity," said Congressman Rob Bishop.
12.21.2010	Today the U.S. Census Bureau announced that the State of Utah will receive a 4th Congressional seat in 2012. After receiving confirmation that a new Congressional District will be added to the Utah delegation, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement: "I am pleased that Utahns will have greater representation in Congress. This is something that should have occurred ten years ago and I still believe that the process should be improved to include a more accurate count. "Anytime you can give a greater voice to the people of Utah and an additional seat at the table in Washington, it's a good thing. Having worked on redistricting while I was in the State Legislature, I know first-hand some of the challenges that lie ahead."
12.20.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) has drafted an open letter to Congressman-elect Allen West responding to criticisms of the new 2011 congressional schedule. Dear Congressman-elect West, Congratulations on your recent election to the House of Representatives. The new House Republican majority, which you helped secure, has a historic opportunity to promote important reforms that will help place our country on the path to prosperity and freedom. I recently read about your reaction to the changes to the congressional schedule set to take place this next Congress. As a member who has long advocated for a reform of the congressional schedule, I wanted to share with you some of my thoughts on the matter and explain why I am a strong supporter of incoming Majority Leader Eric Cantor's 2011 schedule. I am about to begin my fifth term in Congress. I can tell you based on my experience that the number of days Congress spends in Washington should not be correlated with the quality of work that is accomplished. I can also tell you that time spent in our districts is not "time off." To the contrary, I have found that the way Congress has operated the past few years has been a case study of ineffective time management that was both unproductive and, perhaps worst of all, insulated and even discouraged members from interacting with constituents. We all want government to do less, but that doesn't mean we need to be in Washington more. For some time, Congress has operated on a Tuesday-Thursday work-week. This means the typical congressional schedule has members flying back and forth to Washington every week. Gratuitous votes occur late Monday evening and the week wraps up early Thursday afternoon. Most members try to catch a late Thursday or early Friday flight. In the typical week, many Congress members spend as much time in airports as they do meeting with constituents. Under the new schedule, Members will be provided with a full work week back in their districts each month. Previously, the time available to be spent back in the district was both unpredictable and haphazard at best. Most often, Saturdays and Sundays have been the only days available to meet with constituents. This is not a sufficient amount of time to meet face to face with residents back home. The new calendar will also address the fact that for years Members of Congress took advantage of the unpredictable schedules as a way to hide from their constituents. More time back in the districts will ensure greater accountability and give Members an opportunity to better understand the interests and priorities of their constituents, which in turn will allow them to make informed votes that represent those whom they are elected to represent. It is incorrect to assume that Members of Congress are only working when voting. There is much more to effective representation than just voting in Washington. Continuous consumption of Potomac air does not produce the best legislative results. Members of Congress need time to see how our proposals impact real people living in our districts, and the best way to do this is by spending time with constituents. Staying connected with the world is impossible when we spend all our time in Washington. This past year has shown that Members of Congress not only need more time to get input before a vote, but they also need more time to evaluate the results of their actions after each vote. Effective time in the district should be a priority — not an afterthought. Take for instance the week the Democrats' healthcare package was being considered. Speaker Pelosi intentionally held Members in Washington over the weekend with a final vote being taken on Sunday. No votes of substance took place between Friday and Sunday and our being here those days was truly a waste of time. The votes that kept us here in Washington were not essential to the operation of Congress nor did they do anything to address what was then, and currently, our number one priority - economic stability. The Speaker's scheduling was nothing more than a diversion that prevented Members from returning home to face constituents angry about the government takeover of healthcare. This was not representative democracy. The Majority Leader-elect's new schedule was the result of many hours of careful and thoughtful analysis and planning. I know, because I was one of the earliest advocates of this type of proposal. It was created to ensure that the time Members spend in Washington was not unnecessarily nor frivolously wasted, but rather dedicated 100% to addressing the will of this nation. And unlike years past, the schedule will provide you and your constituents with a new and historic level of accessibility that will allow you to make informed decisions while in Washington. Right now, the approval rating for Congress is an abysmal 13%. That can largely be attributed to the fact that the American people do not feel as though their voices are being heard. For the first time in many years, Members will have specifically scheduled weeks each month to interact with their constituents before returning to Washington. Members will no longer have an excuse not to meet with constituents. At the very time Americans are demanding a more accountable and responsive government, less interaction with constituents is the wrong approach. Politicians should not hide from constituents. We need look no further than the current lame duck session to see that the number of congressional days in session should not be the barometer by which we measure our ability to advance the interests of the American people. Indeed, the more we are here, the more damage we seem to do. A structured and carefully crafted congressional schedule will eliminate the waste of taxpayers' time and money. I applaud Congressman Cantor for adopting a congressional schedule that will require greater Member-constituent interaction and more direct Member involvement in legislating when in DC. Members need time to clearly understand constituent concerns and ascertain the effect of legislative proposals. This new schedule provides more quality time in Washington and the district — and also cuts the cost of government travel in half. The Majority Leader-elect deserves praise for his commitment to improve the day to day operation of Congress, which begins with making sure that Members' time in Washington is effective, while at the same time, ensuring that Members are unable to hide from their constituents. I look forward to working with you in the 112th Congress. I would be happy to visit with you if you'd like to discuss congressional scheduling in further detail. Thanks for letting me share some thoughts. Sincerely, Rob Bishop M/C
12.16.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement upon House passage of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010. This legislation prevents billions of dollars in tax increases set to occur January 1, 2011. "This bill ensures that the massive tax hikes set to hit Utah families and businesses on January 1 are stopped dead in their tracks. "Some believe that waiting until later next year might help land a different deal, but with President Obama and Senator Reid still in power, there is no guarantee that would happen. I don't like poker and I'm not willing to gamble with the livelihoods of hardworking Utahns for some nonexistent deal that might never materialize. Liberals who wish to raise taxes may have no incentive to negotiate for lower rates come January if all the tax rates have already increased. The only thing we know with certainty is that taxes will go up in two weeks if action is not taken now. With the passage of this bill, we are guaranteeing that billions of dollars in tax increases will not occur. "We had to take immediate action to protect hard-working Americans and provide some certainty for businesses to create jobs. Under the new Republican majority, when Congress returns in January, I will continue work to shrink the size of our excessively large and intrusive government and reduce the unacceptable rate of federal spending. Moreover, I will work with my colleagues to address what is probably the biggest problem with this legislation—the death tax provision. While this bill reduces the death tax, it is not reduced as much as it should be—down to zero. I want it completely eliminated. Death should not be a taxable event. "On this one, I agree with colleagues like Ron Paul, who in voting for this bill briefly summed up his support this way: ‘Anytime I can reduce taxes, I will.' "We must stop these tax hikes in order to provide economic certainty now – not gamble on some theory of what might happen later." -30-
12.15.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement after receiving notification that U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian A. Terry was shot and killed last night near Rio Rico, Arizona. Initial reports indicate that the shooting occurred on federal lands located within Arizona's Coronado National Forest. Bishop serves as Western Caucus Chairman and is the Ranking Member on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands. According to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Border Patrol Agent Brian A. Terry was shot and killed the night of December 14th after he encountered several suspects near Rio Rico, Ariz. At least four suspects are in custody while one is still being pursued. The incident investigation is being led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Santa Cruz County Sheriff's Office. "It is unacceptable that our federal lands continue to serve as drug trafficking and human smuggling superhighways. It's no secret why criminal organizations entering the U.S. from Mexico strategically target federal lands as the most ideal and secure route to traffic drugs, smuggle humans and carry out a host of other criminal acts. Strict environmental regulations are enabling a culture of unprecedented lawlessness that has led to numerous deaths on federal lands, including yesterday's tragic death of Agent Terry. "I am outraged by the current administration's inaction and refusal to address the immediate need to secure our federal lands. Despite the inherent need, and the loss of far too many lives on federal lands, Secretary Salazar and others in the current administration continue to place radical special interest policies over the security of this country. My deepest sympathy goes out to the family, friends and colleagues of Agent Terry. I lament the fact that the criminal activity on federal lands continues to go unaddressed."
12.08.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today praised Majority Leader-elect Eric Cantor (R-VA) for adopting a number of common-sense scheduling and organizational reforms for the 112th Congress. The new 2011 calendar for the House of Representatives, released today, includes a number of reform ideas proposed by Congressman Bishop earlier this year, such as: · Dedicating more time for members to spend in the district with constituents by adopting at least one full 5-day work week in Members' Congressional Districts each month. (Click here to read Rep. Bishop's Op-ed on reforms to the congressional workweek. (POLITICO, 7/28/10) · Reducing the amount of time and costs related to member travel back and forth from Washington. By providing consistency throughout the annual schedule, Congress will better utilize the work-week and reduce the overall number of weeks Members must travel back and forth while maintaining essentially the same number of days in session. "I am pleased that these common-sense reforms have been adopted. I fought hard to ensure that Members had dedicated time to address the needs of their constituents both here in D.C. and at home in their Congressional Districts. I believe Members of Congress need to have time to meet and discuss with their constituents so that they clearly understand constituent concerns and the effect of legislative proposals. Members of Congress need more interaction and feedback with those they represent — not less. I am proud that this critical reform was adopted," said Congressman Bishop. Additional scheduling reforms advocated by Bishop that were adopted, include: · Protected committee time each morning that Congress is in session, to ensure that every Member of Congress has the opportunity to fulfill their responsibilities to the Committee without interruption or conflict in schedule due to votes or floor-time. Click here to read Rep. Bishop's Op-ed on committee scheduling reforms. (POLITICO, 10/22/10) · Requiring legislation to be made available 72 hours prior to a committee mark-up as well as consideration of the bill on the floor of the House of Representatives. "Having separate time for committees and the floor just makes sense, and will enable all representatives to be better informed and more involved. These reforms will both increase accountability and improve the overall process, and I think will lead to a better end product. I am looking forward to getting back to addressing the priorities of this country under the new Republican majority and am confident that Americans will see a more responsive and accessible Congress than what has existed in years past," Bishop added. Below please find Majority Leader-elect Cantor's Dear Colleague letter explaining the calendar in further detail: December 8, 2010 Dear Colleague: I am pleased to release the 2011 congressional calendar for the U.S. House of Representatives. The calendar can be accessed today at RepublicanWhip.house.gov and starting January 5, 2011, at MajorityLeader.gov. This year's calendar is the result of substantial input gained by the Republican Transition Team from members of both the House Republican Conference and the House Democratic Caucus, and from many outside reformers. In total, it contains 123 days and 32 weeks of session. While the number of days in session is consistent with first sessions in years past, the number of weeks in session represents an eleven percent drop, resulting in less travel for Members and potential savings to the Member's Representational Allowance (MRA). Most importantly, the 2011 calendar was drafted with the following goals in mind: 1) Create Certainty for Members, families, staff, and the public; 2) Increase Efficiency and Productivity in the legislative process; 3) Protect Committee Time and conduct meaningful oversight; and 4) Listen to Constituents and reflect the American people's will. Above all else, the House calendar will enable Members to focus on the country's most pressing concerns: the economy and jobs, reducing spending and limiting the size of government, and making Congress more transparent and accountable. Create Certainty Over the past decade, the House's schedule has fluctuated on a week-to-week basis. Rarely do Members know when last votes will be scheduled for the day or week. As a result, meetings are often missed, congressional families are disappointed, and constituent events are left in limbo. It is my intention to start floor votes no sooner than 1:00 p.m. and to regularly end voting on the floor no later than 7:00 p.m. each evening. When necessary, the House may continue to debate and consider legislation after 7:00 p.m., but votes will not be held past that point. As a result, Members will be able to plan their days with more certainty. In addition, I intend to begin votes at 6:30 p.m. on the first day of each week and end votes at 3:00 p.m. on the last day of each week. (Votes on the last day may be necessary prior to 1:00 p.m.) All Members will have the ability to return home to their district by Thursday or Friday evening each week, however, the last day of the week will no longer be treated in a perfunctory manner. Including this year, the House has not adjourned until December for eight straight years. Therefore, the House's target adjournment has been moved from the end of the fiscal year to Thursday, December 8, in order to better reflect the anticipated workload of the Congress. This will allow Members to plan their fall and early winter schedules now. If we are able to adjourn before December 8, it will be the first time in fourteen years that the House has finished prior to its target adjournment date. Increase Efficiency and Productivity From input gained during the transition process, Members unanimously agreed that a Tuesday-through-Thursday schedule can create an inefficient, unproductive, and frenetic legislative body. The risks of such a schedule are bills rushed to the floor; Members voting on legislation without the benefit of time for review; and committees and the deliberative process becoming after-thoughts. During the 110th Congress, for example, the House considered 2,185 bills on the floor, 70% of which were debated on the suspension calendar. This past year, during the 111th Congress, more than half of all suspension bills named a post office or building, congratulated an individual or team, or supported the designation of a particular day, week, or month. We can do better to reflect the will of the taxpayers who have elected us. The goal for this Congress is to stress quality over quantity in terms of the flow of legislation to the House floor. I intend to lengthen the time for consideration of bills in order to improve quality and deliver results. Gone are congratulatory resolutions. Post office namings will be handled on a less frequent basis. In addition, legislation will be made available both three days prior to a committee mark-up and three days prior to floor consideration. Taken together, these reforms will allow more time for quality consideration while increasing the House's efficiency and guaranteeing the public's right to know. Lastly, with the exception of January, the House will utilize four- and five-day work weeks. Members and staff should quickly gain an ability to better focus their time with less conflicts. Protect Committee Time Since the late 1970s and early 1980s, committee oversight hearings have declined by roughly 500 percent. If we are to reflect the commitment we have made to the voters who elected us, we must reverse this trend. During the 112th Congress, it is my intention to create protected committee time each morning we are in session. Committee meetings will commence at 9:00 a.m. or 10:00 a.m. On the first day of each week, committees will be able to meet – uninterrupted – prior to 6:30 p.m. or after 7:00 p.m. During the middle two days of each week, committees will be protected from floor votes until 1:00 p.m. and after 7:00 p.m. Every effort will be made on a last day of the week to limit the number of floor votes from interrupting committee action. And we will hold ourselves accountable in conducting meaningful and deliberative work by posting committee attendance and votes online. Listen to Constituents American voters sent us a resounding message in November – Washington is out of touch with their concerns and priorities. Through much deliberation during the transition process, Members indicated the need to return home to listen to their constituents on a regular basis. Accordingly, the schedule will reflect a guaranteed five-day constituent work week at least once each month for Members to visit with employers, employees, seniors, veterans, and other constituent groups Monday through Friday in their district, rather than just on the weekends. This time will be used to listen to constituents, solicit their input, and gain their feedback. The results of these reforms should be a U.S. House of Representatives that more accurately reflects the Founders' intent during the 112th Congress – that is, "direct and constant control by the citizens" (Thomas Jefferson, 1816). I am ready to roll up my sleeves and get down to work with each of you on behalf of the American people. Please do not hesitate to contact me or my office if you have any questions. Happy Holidays! Sincerely, Eric Cantor Majority Leader-elect ###
12.02.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) introduced the State of Utah Wildlife Management Sovereignty Act, which calls for the immediate delisting of the gray wolf in the State of Utah. This legislation will help address challenges associated with the Wolf Management Act [S.B. 36], a bill passed this year in the Utah State Legislature that prevents state wildlife managers from implementing a management plan until gray wolves are no longer considered endangered or threatened by the federal government under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Congressmen Bishop and Chaffetz also joined other western colleagues in introducing the State Sovereignty Wildlife Management Act, which would de-list the gray wolf entirely. "The Utah Wolf Management plan is better equipped to guide wolf management policy in Utah. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has signaled that Utah is not critical to the recovery of western wolf populations. The Service has further signaled their desire to not actively recover Utah wolf populations," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. "Utah is not the epicenter for wolf recovery in the West. It is appropriate to have the wolf delisted in Utah at this time." "The optimal solution would be to return the management of wolves to state management agencies across the board. If that effort is not successful, it is vital that Utah be empowered to manage the wildlife found within its borders. Utah state wildlife managers are better suited to address and oversee the health of our state's gray wolf population. It will be far more beneficial to allow Utah's experts to manage the gray wolf population within our state boundaries than power-hungry Washington bureaucrats that insist upon a one-size-fits-all approach. I have the utmost confidence that they will deliver a successful long-term management plan that both maintains and improves upon the health of gray wolves as well as other wildlife throughout the state," said Congressman Bishop. In 2003, the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources (UDWR) was directed to develop a plan to manage the state's gray wolf population. In 2005, wildlife managers produced the Utah Wolf Management Plan to maintain and strengthen the health of gray wolves throughout the state. However, the state Wolf Management Act prevents wildlife managers from implementing the plan until wolves are removed from the protections of the ESA statewide. The Bishop-Chaffetz joint legislation would delist the gray wolf in the state of Utah and ensure that state wildlife experts are able to begin implementing a program that will best address the unique needs of the state's wildlife.
12.02.2010	Today eight Members of the Congressional Western Caucus joined together to introduce the State Sovereignty Wildlife Management Act. The legislation returns management authority of gray wolves to the states and removes the gray wolf from the endangered species list respectively. Unmanaged wolf populations pose a serious threat to key wildlife species throughout the West. Wildlife officials in many states have attributed declines in their big game herds to the unchecked growth of wolf packs. The State Sovereignty Wildlife Management Act would improve the balance of both wolf and prey populations by allowing individual states to develop management plans that address their unique needs. In states where gray wolves exist, wildlife resource agencies and their personnel will develop successful management programs that will ensure the long-term health and vitality of wildlife populations throughout the West. However, in order to implement these programs, the wolf must be delisted as an endangered or threatened species. "State and local wildlife management agencies and their personnel have proven capable of managing and preserving gray wolf populations. In fact, thanks to their efforts, the gray wolf is thriving throughout the West," said Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop. "The federal government needs to get out of the way and allow the knowledgeable experts to begin implementation of programs designed to meet the unique and individual needs of their state's wildlife. I have the utmost confidence that, with this legislation, states will be able to successfully manage each wolf population and ensure their long-term health and viability." "The Fish and Wildlife Service's goal to recover wolves in Wyoming was met long ago. Wolves are thriving, but Wyoming's ranchers and large game herds are taking a hit – the Gros Ventre moose herd, for example, has been decimated. All the while Washington stands idly by, and activist courts continually move the goal posts. Instead of waiting for Washington to fulfill its end of the bargain by delisting the wolf, it's time the states take things into their own hands. Our experts in Wyoming are best suited to manage wolves in our state," said Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis. "Returning wolf management to the states isn't a partisan issue that pits Republicans against Democrats. It's about state's rights. After holding hearings in Montana and reading thousands of comments, it's clear that folks in Western states like Montana are sick and tired of powerful environmental interest groups funded out of places like San Francisco and New York telling us how to manage our lands, resources and wildlife," said Congressman Denny Rehberg. "State wildlife agencies are in the best position to manage wildlife, not judges. They know the geography, habitat, and what it takes for native wildlife populations to thrive. Allowing extreme environmentalists to dictate wildlife management and abuse the Endangered Species Act is bad for wildlife, property rights, and people. State wildlife agencies should not be prevented by activist judges or Washington bureaucrats from doing their job," said Congressman Dean Heller. "Judge Malloy's decision to put wolves back on the endangered species list is wreaking havoc in Idaho," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "It is frustrating to me that some people persist in acting as though the end goal in this process is to simply keep wolves on the endangered species list instead of to recover the species so that it can be properly managed by the states. It is clear that wolf recovery has exceeded goals and expectations and that Idaho's state management plan has proven effective, and we need to act now to restore the states' authority to manage these animals." "The federal government must allow states to manage wolf populations. Recent court rulings signal judicial support for state management plans," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz. "Now is the time for Congress to act. Wolf populations have grown significantly since first receiving protection under the Endangered Species Act. It is appropriate to have the wolf delisted at this time. The states are better equipped to manage and maintain recovered wolf populations." The following Western Caucus Members joined in introducing today's bill: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large) Rep. Denny Rehberg (MT-At Large) Rep. Mike Simpson (ID-02) Rep. Trent Franks (AZ-02) Rep. Wally Herger (CA-02) Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) Rep. Dean Heller (NV-02)
12.01.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Western Caucus Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Public Lands Subcommittee, released a statement in response to Secretary Salazar's announcement that the Department of Interior is considering imposing new bureaucratic hurdles on our nation's domestic energy producers: "State regulatory agencies are more than capable of carefully monitoring and managing energy development and water quality within their boundaries. There is no reason the federal government should impose additional regulations and red tape on our nation's domestic energy producers. Today's proposal further illustrates this Administration's regressive energy agenda. Here again, Secretary Salazar seems to be choosing to hinder energy production in favor of new and restrictive policies that inhibit domestic energy production that leads to a greater reliance on foreign and often unstable supplies of energy resources. It's disappointing that for every step forward, Secretary Salazar insists on taking two steps back." -30-
11.30.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Co-Chair of the 10th Amendment Task Force, today introduced a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution known as the Repeal Amendment, which would provide States with the authority to repeal any federal law, regulation, tax, or unfunded mandate if two-thirds of the States are in agreement. The Repeal Amendment would provide a targeted way to reverse particular congressional acts and administrative regulations the public opposes. "Recent history has shown that American liberties are threatened when there is an imbalance of power between the federal and state governments. The Repeal Amendment will provide citizens, through their elected state representatives, with a powerful tool to check an overzealous and power-hungry federal government," said Congressman Bishop. The U.S. Constitution, as drafted by the Founders, designed a system that created a balance of power between state and national government. That original balance has eroded as the federal government has accumulated more and more power in Washington. The Repeal Amendment will help restore the spirit of the Tenth Amendment by strengthening the ability of States to protect those powers "reserved to states"—as outlined in the Bill of Rights. "I'm proud to sponsor the Repeal Amendment in Congress because it is a simple, transparent tool that can help restore balance and reduce the concentration of power in Washington," Bishop added. "While the Repeal Amendment will not immediately turn the tide of a power-hungry, overreaching national government, it is an arrow in the quiver of states and a solid first step that can be taken to begin restoring the balance of power our Founding Fathers intended when they drafted the Constitution."
11.30.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Co-Chair of the 10th Amendment Task Force, today introduced a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution known as the Repeal Amendment, which would provide States with the authority to repeal any federal law, regulation, tax, or unfunded mandate if two-thirds of the States are in agreement. The Repeal Amendment would provide a targeted way to reverse particular congressional acts and administrative regulations the public opposes. "Recent history has shown that American liberties are threatened when there is an imbalance of power between the federal and state governments. The Repeal Amendment will provide citizens, through their elected state representatives, with a powerful tool to check an overzealous and power-hungry federal government," said Congressman Bishop. The U.S. Constitution, as drafted by the Founders, designed a system that created a balance of power between state and national government. That original balance has eroded as the federal government has accumulated more and more power in Washington. The Repeal Amendment will help restore the spirit of the Tenth Amendment by strengthening the ability of States to protect those powers "reserved to states"—as outlined in the Bill of Rights. "I'm proud to sponsor the Repeal Amendment in Congress because it is a simple, transparent tool that can help restore balance and reduce the concentration of power in Washington," Bishop added. "While the Repeal Amendment will not immediately turn the tide of a power-hungry, overreaching national government, it is an arrow in the quiver of states and a solid first step that can be taken to begin restoring the balance of power our Founding Fathers intended when they drafted the Constitution."
11.18.2010	By Thomas Burr, Salt Lake Tribune Washington • Every weekday morning for decades on Capitol Hill, workers lugged buckets of ice to the office of every single member of Congress. It was a service that pre-dated modern refrigeration but for some reason continued for decades — until Republicans took power in 1994 and stopped it. Rep. Rob Bishop, now serving on the GOP's team handling the transition to the majority, has a few more suggestions that he says would save money, foster better government and create efficiency. Take for example the House's committee hearing system that often tries to place a single member in more than one meeting at the same time, leaving witnesses jetting into Washington to testify before a couple actual representatives amid a lot of empty seats. "Pretty embarrassing isn't it?" Bishop said, rattling off a story as he literally ran across the street between office buildings to vote in two separate committees. "When I came here, I hated the system," says Bishop, who previously served as speaker of the Utah House of Representatives. "And I still do." Bishop's pitch — a 27-page proposal — includes such concepts as working two weeks in Washington and then returning home for a week's work in each individual's districts, separating committee time from floor debate time and making legislation easier to read. His suggestion for ways to reform the system caught the eye of Speaker-in-waiting John Boehner and helped land him a spot on the 20-member transition team. "There are better ways to maximize productivity in Washington while still keeping a pulse on constituents back home, and Representative Bishop is helping us to find them," Boehner spokesman Brendan Buck said. "Changing the ways of Congress are never easy, but the American people just sent a very clear message that the status quo isn't working. We're listening, and we're going to shake things up around here." Some of Bishop's ideas may shock people outside of Washington — not because they're outrageous but because people might be outraged to learn of the current practices they're aimed at changing. Case in point: floor debates. Most voters are familiar with the images of a member of Congress speaking about bills from a podium in the hallowed chamber. What is less well known is that often the rest of the chamber is virtually empty save for a C-SPAN camera. The solution? Bishop suggests moving committees to the morning hours and reserving five hours in the afternoon for actual debate on the floor, with every member present — a variation of the schedule used in the Utah Legislature. Another idea could save some $15 million a year and a lot of travel-weary members. As it stands, members often fly in late Monday or early Tuesday to Washington, spend the next three days in session and jet out late Thursday. That leaves only three days a week for Congress to get work done. Bishop's plan would put members in Washington for two straight weeks, then back home for another week to work there. More work days, less travel. "Some of this can easily take place," Bishop says. "Some of it's more long-term." The former school teacher knows not all of his proposals will get picked up in the switch to Republican control, but he's hoping the list at least opens up the idea of systemic change to how Congress does business. "Any time you propose this type of change, there will always be resistance," Bishop said. But, he adds, "The stuff we're talking about — I know it works."
11.18.2010	Members of the Utah congressional delegation met today with NASA officials at Sen. Orrin Hatch's office to press the space agency to fully implement the 2010 NASA Authorization Act. Hatch, Sen. Bob Bennett and Reps. Rob Bishop and Jim Matheson met with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden and Deputy Administrator Lori Garver to ensure that they are on board with complying with the law, which outlines payload requirements for a heavy-lift space system that, experts agree, can only be realistically met by solid rocket motors like the ones ATK manufactures in northern Utah. "NASA has signaled an interest recently in possibly circumventing the law," Hatch said. "My purpose in calling this meeting was to explain in no uncertain terms the Utah congressional delegation's interest in ensuring that Utah's solid rocket motor industry is protected. Though they assured us that NASA would comply with the law, some of their answers reaffirmed my suspicions that we need to keep a very close watch on the agency. I will continue with other delegation members to ensure the agency abides by the law and protects this industry that is so vitally important to our national security and northern Utah's economy." "It's clear that congressional opinion on this issue isn't going to change as we work to advance the mission of NASA," Bennett said. "I join my colleagues in admonishing NASA to strictly adhere to the law and use solid rocket motors in the development of the new Space Launch System. Such adherence is a major step in saving thousands of jobs in Utah and sustaining an industrial base critical to our national security." "Today's meeting confirms that we are in a long-term fight over the future of NASA's manned space flight program," Bishop said. "While I appreciate Administrator Charlie Bolden and Assistant Administrator Lori Garver's willingness to meet with us, I remain very concerned that NASA continues to delay the transition from Constellation systems toward the new heavy-lift program while they needlessly explore private start-up technologies that remain unproven, require more money and are unfit for human-rated space travel. During the meeting, I expressed my disappointment that both Bolden and Garver continue to slow-walk the plans required by the NASA Reauthorization Act. A vital component of our national security with solid booster production remains at high risk so long as the current Administration and its NASA advisors continue to ignore the existing proven and successful space and missile defense technologies in favor of systems that are still considered to be experimental. This concerns me greatly. When national security is at stake, there are certain risks not worth taking, such as abandoning our existing vital industrial base." The language Hatch was successful in getting inserted in the NASA Authorization Act does not require the new heavy-lift rocket to use solid rocket motors. But delegation members say the Utah experts they consulted say the legislation's requirements for the heavy-lift rocket can only be realistically met by using solid rocket motors. For example, the rocket must be designed from its inception to carry 130 tons. The heavier the payload the more likely the rocket will use solid rocket motors. The law also requires NASA to use, as much as practical, existing contracts, workforces and industries for the Space Shuttle and Ares rockets. Utah's congressional leaders sought further assurances that NASA will continue to fund ATK's research and development work on civilian solid rocket motors until the new Omnibus Appropriations Bill is signed into law. Rep. Jason Chaffetz provided the following statement: "Utah plays a vital role in America's leadership in space. I appreciate Administrator Bolden's willingness to work with the delegation. It is important that NASA has a full, complete understanding of the NASA Authorization Act of 2010. The Congressional intent is clear. Congress directed NASA to utilize existing contracts, investments, and workforce in the design of the next generation Space Launch System. I will continue to push NASA to abide by the law and to maximize successful investments made in Shuttle and Constellation."
10.08.2010	The National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) has presented Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) with its Guardian of Small Business award. The award is presented to Members of Congress who consistently support the small business community when legislative actions are taken on the floor of the House of Representatives. According to the NFIB, the Guardian of Small Business award is the most prestigious honor that NFIB bestows on legislators in recognition of their efforts to support small business issues. "The small business community is the economic engine of this country and there are few things more damaging to small business growth than an uncertain regulatory environment and stifling tax rates. Recognizing the unique challenges that many small business owners are facing during these tough economic times, I will continue to work to bring greater certainty to our business community by supporting pro-business policies that lead to job creation and long-term economic stability," said Congressman Bishop. Click here to view the NFIB report on legislative action taken during the 111th Congress. -30-
10.08.2010	Due to the continued crime and violence occurring along the Southern U.S. Border, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), along with eleven other House and Senate Members, commissioned the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to examine the ongoing conflict between federal land management policies and border security. The results of the initial draft report reveal shocking details of how federal policies are preventing the U.S. Border Patrol's access to some of the most crime-ridden areas of the U.S.-Mexico border located on federal lands. You can't find the report by clicking here. "The severity of the crisis along the border cannot be underestimated. This report reveals shocking details that illustrate how U.S. so-called environmental policies are contributing to the ongoing crime and violence along the southern U.S.-Mexico border. These policies must be addressed and reevaluated to allow the U.S. Border Patrol access to the entire border region, including federal lands. Preventing the Border Patrol from conducting routine patrols on the most highly trafficked areas is irresponsible and in no way in the best interest of our country," said Congressman Bishop. The GAO draft report finds that U.S. policies are contributing to the ongoing crime and violence stemming from traffickers' and smugglers' virtually unmitigated access into the U.S. via federal lands. The U.S.'s own regulations and laws are preventing the U.S. Border Patrol from maintaining routine patrols on much of the federally owned and managed parts of the border where violence is most prevalent. "The American people cannot figure out why the U.S. has yet to achieve full operational control of the border. An examination of this report will shed light on this exact fact. The U.S.'s own policies are a contributing factor to the rampant crime along the border, allowing criminal drug cartels and human smugglers to have virtually unmitigated access into the U.S. via federally managed lands," Bishop added. "The Border Patrol has proven to be one of the most effective resources for prevention and apprehension of drug and human smugglers entering into the U.S., however, they must be given full access to all border areas in order for them to be most effective at their jobs." The draft report has been sent to the Agriculture, Homeland Security, and the Interior Departments for review and comment and is still subject to revision. By their request, key excerpts of the report's current findings, which used to be included below, have now been removed... -30-
09.30.2010	Today, Senate Western Caucus Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY), Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), and members of the Senate and House Western Caucuses released the "War on Western Jobs" report. The report outlines the Administration's policies and their negative impact on jobs and communities throughout the West. "Instead of making it easier for western businesses and communities to create new jobs, this Administration enforced an anti-business, anti-multiple use agenda that only makes the situation worse. The findings of our report detail how this Administration's policies are suffocating western economies, killing jobs and severely weakening America's energy security. Members of the Western Caucuses will continue to fight against Washington overreach and for a common sense agenda that promotes personal freedom and helps Western families and small businesses." - U.S. Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senate Western Caucus Chairman "This report illuminates the unforgiving challenges that so many throughout the West are currently facing as a result of the current Administration's job-killing policies. Westerners pride themselves on their determination to tackle any challenge before them- it's the essence of the pioneer spirit. However, new policies targeting Western industries like energy, mining, ranching and other public land uses have made these already though economic times even harder for many to overcome. Both the House and Senate Western Caucuses will continue to fight to reduce the burdens that hinder job creation throughout the West and this report targets some of the areas that are among our highest priorities." - Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), House Western Caucus Chairman In the report, the Caucuses identified ten specific areas that demonstrate the severe economic impact of the Administration's job killing agenda: 1. Taxing energy use 2. Federalizing all surface water within the 50 states and territories 3. Restricting access to America's vast reserves of affordable, American oil and natural gas 4. Imposing "one size fits all" mandates on western communities 5. Putting a priority on protecting species over American jobs 6. Blocking a multiple-use policy in our National Forests 7. Over-regulating coal 8. Seizing additional private western lands and placing them under control of the federal government 9. Requiring new federal permitting requirements into new areas of the western economy 10.Stopping domestic mining in favor of the importation of foreign minerals -30-
09.30.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement regarding an announcement made by Alliant Techsystems (ATK) that approximately 450 Utahns will be laid off today, September 30, 2010. "Many of the people who are being notified of layoffs are my friends and neighbors, so this hits close to home. "This is an unfortunate reality that far too many Utahns and Americans across the country are facing during these challenging economic times, and just as frustrating, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi seem intent on exacerbating the problems. In this instance, earlier action from Congress and full support of Ares and Constellation would have provided a more seamless transition and would have helped avoid major layoffs. "We've been fighting this battle for months, but the Democrat leaders in Congress wouldn't allow solutions, either in the NASA reauthorization bill or through the appropriations process, to come to the floor. Congressional leaders refused to pass a budget or an appropriations bill; instead they passed a continuing resolution, a stop-gap measure that keeps government running but does not sufficiently fund programs like Constellation. "The current Administration's job-killing policies have created nationwide uncertainty that continues to be severely detrimental to job growth and economic stability. I recognize the negative impacts that are coming from stupid decisions in NASA and Congress, and I will keep fighting to reverse these current policies. What we need is a different attitude within this Administration and a better balance in Congress, and when Congress does come back, we will continue this battle." -30-
09.29.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed the NASA Authorization Act of 2010 [S. 3729.] The legislation considered tonight in the House included Senate language in lieu of the more favorable bipartisan alternative introduced last week by House Science and Technology Committee Chairman Bart Gordon (TN-06.) Although it was not as strong as Bishop wanted, he voted in support of S. 3729. "Protecting the future of NASA's manned space flight capabilities has remained one of my highest priorities. Throughout the year, including during this week's negotiations over the Senate and House versions of the NASA Authorization Act, I worked closely with ATK representatives and the Utah delegation to provide a united front against the cancellation of Constellation. While I am by no means satisfied with the Senate version, I voted in support of it when it was presented today before the House because it was better than nothing," said Congressman Bishop. Funding included in S. 3729 directs NASA over the next three years to build a heavy-lift rocket. The House compromise legislation, however, introduced by Chairman Gordon was viewed by supporters of Ares and Constellation as superior because it specifically stated that NASA ‘shall' use solid rockets and Ares technology, which the Senate version does not specifically state. But even the Senate version is seen by most as a partial repudiation of Obama's proposed changes to America's space program, and the negative consequences connected to his plan. "What many fail to realize is that this is not just a fight about jobs, but the future of our nation's missile defense and national security capabilities. By failing to pass legislation that specifically calls for the continuation of NASA's manned space flight program and solid rocket systems, we risk ceding our role as leaders in space exploration over to countries like China and Russia and severely hampering ongoing defense technologies and future capabilities," Bishop added. "Had Speaker Pelosi taken up the House version weeks ago, instead of placing it on the back burner indefinitely, we would likely not be in the situation where it's the Senate bill or nothing." Speaker Pelosi has stated her opposition to manned space flight on multiple occasions. During a December 16, 2009 press conference, Nancy Pelosi stated, "I have not been a big fan of manned expeditions to outer space." "This fight is by no means over and I will continue to pursue support for the House proposals during the appropriations process. Our national defense and the security of all Americans deserve no less," Bishop concluded. -30-
09.23.2010	Today Republicans in the House of Representatives unveiled their Pledge to America, a governing agenda focused on jobs, spending cuts, national security and reform of Congress. Key provisions developed and supported by Congressman Rob Bishop were included in the final Pledge. "From the town halls I held this summer to meetings I have had back here in Washington, one thing has been evidently clear to me, the American people are fed up with the way business is currently being done in Washington. This new pledge seeks to resolve the uncertainty that so many feel and restore Americans' confidence in good government," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop has consistently fought for full operational control of the southern U.S.-Mexico border and has championed efforts to address the rampant criminal activity occurring on millions of acres of un-patrolled federal land spanning from Texas to California. This proposal, which in full bill form is H.R. 5016, was included in the national security section of the Pledge. "House Democrats have presided over this body for four years and at practically every critical juncture, they have chosen the wrong path for America. Their agenda, riddled with tax hikes and government takeovers, has failed the American people. It's time to start anew, which is why I implore Nancy Pelosi to take immediate action by bringing the proposals included in the Pledge to America to the floor for a vote. It's time we start reversing the burdens imposed on the American people over the past four years--unleashing the American ingenuity among our small business community that is so essential to the salvation of the American economy," Bishop added. The new agenda was created in part from input and suggestions received from the America Speaking Out initiative, launched by Republicans in May 2010. Specifically, the Pledge includes: · A plan to create jobs, end economic uncertainty, and make America more competitive · A plan to stop out-of-control spending and reduce the size of government · A plan to repeal and replace the government takeover of healthcare · A plan to reform Congress and restore trust · A plan to keep our nation secure at home and abroad In addition to Bishop's border security proposal, Congressional reforms championed by him, which aim to change the way Congress operates, were also recognized and supported in the "Reform of Congress" section of the Pledge. Specifically, Congressman Bishop has advocated for a tight germaneness rule, or in other words that one piece of legislation should only deal with one issue at a time. This "one bill, one issue" concept would end the practice of packaging unpopular bills with must-pass bills. The northern Utah lawmaker has also been a backer of efforts to make all legislation accessible to the public for review 72 hours prior to it being voted on in Congress. Both of these proposed changes to House rules were part of the GOP Pledge introduced today. "I'm proud to be a part of these efforts and look forward to working with my colleagues to enacting these fundamental reforms needed to get our country back on track," Bishop concluded. -30-
09.22.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) recognized Weber State University for their presentation of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), known as the "Surveiller," at the UAV Caucus Technology Fair held today on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. "As a Utahn, I was proud to have Weber State University representing Utah at this distinguished Capitol Hill event, which showcased many of the most innovative UAV technologies from around the U.S.," said Congressman Bishop. Developed as part of Weber State's aviation initiative, a campus effort that supports the nation's aviation and aerospace industries, the UAV is a remotely piloted aircraft designed and manufactured by Weber State University staff. "I was extremely impressed with the technological capabilities of the Surveiller, especially its proven agility in the air. Today our local law enforcement, homeland security and national defense capabilities are relying heavily on UAVs and emerging technologies. I am pleased to see that Weber State is at the forefront of these innovative capabilities," Bishop added. According to Weber State University, the device is a nearly-silent vehicle capable of remote autonomous aerial observation at short to medium ranges. The Surveiller, which has a diameter of no more than two feet, can be launched from any flat surface and can navigate around obstacles to provide surveillance of almost any target via its High Definition camera package that transmits both live video and still photography to the ground station. photo: courtesy of the office of Congressman Rob Bishop. Pictured: Congressman Bishop and Bradley Stringer The UAV Fair provides Members of Congress and Capitol Hill staff with an opportunity to view the latest unmanned aerial systems from around the country. For more information on the UAV program at Weber State, contact Bradley Stringer or Chris Millard.
09.17.2010	Today, September 17, marks the 223rd anniversary of the formal signing of the United States Constitution. Our Constitution has not only served as the foundation of our nation, but also as a symbol of freedom and democracy worldwide. Perhaps most well known, it ensured that power would be granted by the consent of the American people rather blood line or an all-powerful dictator, and created three branches of the federal government so that powers would be separated and balanced. It was a bold and innovative document that has stood the test of time and has gained tremendous admiration around the world. On this anniversary, however, I am concerned that too many in Washington have forgotten one of its bedrock principles: federalism. This concept says that the federal, state, and local governments have their own areas of authority which should not be impeded on by each other. Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution spells out the specific powers granted to Congress and was designed to ensure that the federal government has certain limited, enumerated powers. Additionally, James Madison added a set of explicit rights to the Constitution to secure the support of several founders who wanted even greater assurances that federal power would be limited and state and individual rights protected. The result was the Bill of Rights, which included the Tenth Amendment: "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The founders unmistakably envisioned a federal government with clear boundaries. I am a member of the 10th Amendment Task Force, a group of House members committed to upholding the principles of federalism. Unfortunately, many in Congress continually act with disregard to the Constitution. In particular, I believe Congress has taken actions that exceed the limited powers it was given in Article I, Section 8 and violate the Tenth Amendment. The recent government takeover of healthcare is a prime example of this usurpation of power. The new legislation includes a mandate which requires every American to have a healthcare plan. The authority required to issue such a mandate is not present in the Constitution. Since this power is not expressed in the Constitution it is left to the States respectively and in no way should be an issue taken up by the federal government. Congressional and Presidential whim must not be allowed to dictate the future of our country. To honor, celebrate, and protect the Constitution on the 223rd anniversary of its signing, I have joined with 57 House members in cosponsoring a resolution to commemorate the occasion. On September 17, 2010 we will ask Congress to pass this resolution which strives "to preserve and strengthen the values and rights bestowed by the Constitution upon the United States and its citizens." The founding fathers intended the Constitution to be a roadmap for generations to come. It has been the foundation of a nation whose ideals of freedom and democracy that has lit the world for over two centuries. In taking this office, I swear an oath to defend the Constitution and I will always fervently defend and uphold the document that has guided our nation so well.
09.17.2010	The following links feature messages from Members of Congress commemorating Constitution Day and the 223rd anniversary of the signing of the Constitution. Members of the 10th Amendment Task Force used the opportunity to remind America of the Founding Fathers' vision of a limited national government of enumerated powers. Constitution Day marks the anniversary of the signing of the document on Sept. 17, 1789, by 39 delegates from 12 states at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. RSC Chairman Tom Price Commemorates Constitution Day Rep. Lamborn Statement Recognizing Constitution Day Remarks from Rep. Sam Johnson on Constitution Day Rep. Roscoe Bartlett Urges Americans to Celebrate Constitution Day Rep. Garrett honors 223rd anniversary of the United States Constitution [video] Rep. Bilirakis Recognizes Constitution Day Rep. Coffman Holds Constitution Day Open House in Colorado Rep. Shadegg Bill Calls for Every Bill to Include its Constitutional Authority Rep. John Shadegg: Happy Constitution Day Rep. King: On Constitution Day, Celebrate the Inclusion of the Tenth Amendment Rep. Rob Bishop Delivers Remarks Commemorating Constitution Day [video] Rep. Rooney Honors Constitution Day Rep. Hoekstra Statement on Constitution Day Rep. Pete Olson Recognizes Constitution Day Rep. Latta Statement Recognizing Constitution Day Rep. Bachus Commemorates Constitution Day Rep. Luetkemeyer: Government Must Remember Our Constitution Begins ‘We The People' Rep. Ted Poe Emphasizes the Importance of The Constitution Rep. Wally Herger: Honoring Constitution Day Rep. Joe Pitts Op-ed: Defending the Constitution Rep. Eric Cantor Op-ed in National Review Online: Restoring Madison's Vision Click HERE to read more about the 10th Amendment Task Force
09.17.2010	On September 17, 1787, 39 men made history when they signed the United States Constitution. Convened in Philadelphia, these founding fathers had a bold vision of a new form of government for our young nation; a government where power is not concentrated in a single, central entity—as was the day's custom—but shared and spread among bodies; a government that takes cues not from a monarch, but from the people it serves. This idea, Federalism, became the cornerstone of our government and the foundation for the American way of life. But in the past two years, led by a free-spending Democrat majority and President, the federal government has embarked on an unprecedented and reckless power grab. More and more, Americans are feeling the reach of Washington bureaucrats into their everyday lives. Unfortunately, as Washington continues to grow, the governing role of the states and the American people is getting smaller. Federalism, once a living thing, is becoming an abstract idea. This line of thinking that puts Washington as the sole problem solver is a trend we must reverse. As the federal government continues to expand, we must remember that the Constitution reserves power that is not explicitly granted to the federal government to the states and the people. In every Congress since 1994, I have introduced the Enumerated Powers Act. This measure would require that all bills introduced in Congress include a statement setting forth the specific constitutional authority under which the law is being enacted, forcing Congress to re-examine the role of the national government. This year alone, federal spending is expected to surpass $3.5 Trillion, creating a deficit of $1.47 Trillion. For the sake of all Americans, Washington must be reigned in. So today, on the 223rd Anniversary of its signing, I encourage you to read a copy of the U.S. Constitution. As you know, perhaps too well, our country has lost its way, and we are stranded at an ideological crossroads; on one path, an out-of-touch Congress that continues to spend money it doesn't have, and on the other, hard-working Americans who value choice, options and personal responsibility. To move forward towards better governance, we must go back to the basics. The Constitution is our map, and from there, we'll find that Federalism is the way.
09.17.2010	The Constitution starts out, "We, the people." It's written in really large print right at the beginning of the document. The Constitution is a rock. It's the foundation. It is not some abstract concept that changes depending on the social philosophy of the elites and tyrants of the judiciary. The Constitution says the things it says in plain, simple language. The Constitution is an agreement between the people and the government. It sets limits on what the government can do, not the other way around. The Constitution upholds the principle that people have God-given rights. Government has no rights. Government has power. And the more power it grabs, the less rights we have. Thomas Jefferson warned, " the natural progress of things if for liberty to yield and government to gain ground". A government big and powerful enough to control our lives is big and powerful enough to take away everything we have. And that's un-American. After all, the Constitution says, "We, the people" not "We, the subjects". And that's just the way it is. Link: http://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=206976
09.17.2010	Today marks the 223rd anniversary of the signing our nation's Constitution. We have made great strides over these 223 years, but we have also encountered many setbacks. Sadly, the America our founding fathers envisioned is not the country we live in today. In a letter to Joseph Cabal, Thomas Jefferson said, "the way to have good and safe government, is not to trust it all to one, but to divide it among the many, distributing to every one exactly the functions he is competent to." He went on to caution, "What has destroyed liberty and the rights of man in every government which has ever existed under the sun? The generalizing and concentrating all cares and power into one body …" America has not heeded Jefferson's warning. The federal government now controls portions of the auto industry, the banking industry, the insurance industry, the passenger rail industry and the health care industry. I believe we need to return to the intent of our founding fathers – trusting and empowering individual Americans instead of the federal government. By taking this simple step, we will restore the vision our founding fathers had for America 223 years ago. In support of Constitution Day, my district office will have copies of the Constitution available for my constituents from 8:30 AM – 5:00 PM (CDT). Please note that supplies are limited to two copies per constituent.
09.17.2010	Republican Study Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-GA) issued the following statement on Constitution Day, which honors the signing of the United States Constitution on September 17, 1787. "For more than two centuries, the United States Constitution has been the bedrock of freedom and liberty in America," said Chairman Price. "The Founders wrote the Constitution to specifically limit the powers of the federal government, with every citizen free to achieve and prosper on their own accord. Constitution Day is a celebration of freedom, but this year it is also a sobering reminder of the federal government's tendency to expand its reach and overstep its bounds. Americans across the country have made a renewed commitment to limited, constitutional government, and I fervently hope this same commitment will once again take root in the hearts of our elected officials."
09.17.2010	U.S. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-9) issued the following statement commemorating Constitution Day: "As we mark Constitution Day and reflect on the rights and freedoms enshrined in this document, it is important to remember that our government, as Abraham Lincoln once said, is of the people, by the people and for the people. There is a reason why the words ‘We The People' are written larger than any others on the U.S. Constitution, and it has become increasingly clear that more and more Americans are embracing that notion at a time when government appears to be ignoring those precious words and the ideal behind them. Millions of Americans are making it clear that our government is of the people, by the people and for the people, and not for politicians they have elected to represent them. For more than 200 years, our Constitution has been a beacon of democratic ideals, and we must remain vigilant in protecting the rights and freedoms guaranteed by this revered document." Constitution Day commemorates the formation and signing of the U.S. Constitution on September 17, 1787.
09.17.2010	Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-6) today urged public commemoration of Constitution Day, a day set aside by congressional statute to celebrate America's highest law. Bachus issued the following statement, which has been published in the Congressional Record. September 17 is Constitution Day, a time to show appreciation for the foundational and supreme law of our land that deserves special attention this year. The principles of the U.S. Constitution have successfully guided our nation through times of both prosperity and challenge. The genius of our Constitution rests in the Founding Fathers' intricate system of checks and balances and the division of powers between the states and the national government. This has helped ensure that the people are the masters of their government, rather than its servants. The 10th Amendment was particularly prescient in recognizing that the most effective, responsive, and representative government is that which is closest to its citizens. It has long been my practice to distribute copies of the Constitution to the school groups with whom I meet, and I am greatly encouraged by the millions of patriotic Americans who are now dedicating themselves to reaffirming and restoring the principles of limited government and personal freedom. Public and personal readings of the Constitution are taking place throughout Alabama and our country in recognition of Constitution Day. All Americans should reflect on an enduring document that has given us the magnificent gifts of democracy and freedom and remained relevant to providing guidance for our government despite the passage of more than two centuries.
09.17.2010	Congressman Bob Latta (R-Bowling Green) made the following statement in recognition of Constitution Day. "Today we celebrate the signing of the United States Constitution and recognize its importance in our nation's history. We were blessed as a nation to have individuals that put self-interest and sectionalism aside to debate, argue, draft and sign the Constitution. Our Constitution has been that beacon upon the hill, that guiding star at night, and that shining city that millions of persons around the word have longed to be guided by within their own countries. This week, I introduced H. Res. 1612, which recognizes and honors September 17th as Constitution Day. In 1956, Congress established Constitution week so that every American citizen could learn more about the Constitution. In 2004, the 17th of each September was designated as Constitution Day. I am pleased to introduce this Resolution to stand up and support the Constitution because it deserves the recognition, respect, and reverence of all people in the United States. In celebration of today, I would encourage all Americans to sit down and read this great document. Since the Constitution's ratification, it has been the framework for our great nation. Not only did great men bring it forth, but for two hundred twenty-three years this Constitution has been paid for by hundreds of thousands of lives- the lives of our brave military men and women. Let the living give thanks to our honored dead who have paid the ultimate sacrifice that the Constitution of the United States remains our guiding light." On Tuesday, Congressman Latta spoke on the House floor in support of his Constitution Day resolution, which was passed by voice vote. Video of his remarks can be found here. Congressman Latta's blog also features a Constitution Day post, which can be found here. Since 2009, Congressman Latta has distributed information packets to high school government classes throughout the Fifth Congressional District on Constitution Day. The packets include a copy of his Constitution Day resolution, a two-page letter to the students, and copies of pocket Constitutions.
09.17.2010	Today Rep. Pete Olson issued the following statement in honor of Constitution Day: "The success of democracy in America has inspired other nations to change their form of government to give their citizens the most basic of rights. People from across the globe come to America seeking that freedom that we hold so dear. "The basic rights that prompt envy of America are rooted in our Constitution, the document that set in motion the limited role of our centralized federal government. On September 17, 1787, members of the Constitutional Convention signed the final draft of the Constitution. Throughout the debate over what should be included in the document there was a clash over issues of state sovereignty and the distribution of power. Fears of creating a too powerful central authority ran high. One of the keys to success in our democracy has been limits on a centralized, federal authority. We must continue to reflect on the prescient vision of our forefathers during these challenging times. "Today, most politicians make promises and grapple with the nation's problems without even acknowledging an important component to confront the nation's challenges: restore balanced federalism so that Washington no longer has to be the world's problem solver. "America is tired of top-down mandates from federal bureaucrats in Washington. I share their frustration and on this anniversary of Constitution Day, I pledge to continue to fight for a limited role for the federal government.
09.17.2010	U.S. Rep. Pete Hoekstra, R-Holland, issued the following statement to mark the occasion of Constitution Day, Sept. 17. "The federal government has expanded its reach and power far more than the Founding Fathers ever intended. Constitution Day – the anniversary of the day that the Constitution was signed in 1787 – is an occasion to remember that the Founders envisioned a limited central government with the powers not outlined in that document delegated to the states. "It is disappointing to see how far America has strayed from that original vision. It is imperative that the administration and Congress return to the ideals and principles that our great nation was based upon."
09.17.2010	U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney (FL-16) today announced passage by the House of Representatives of a resolution he cosponsored honoring Friday, September 17 as "Constitution Day." "Although you probably won't get the day off from work, and you won't see many fireworks, Constitution Day is a day that all Americans should remember and treasure," Rooney said. "Our Constitution stands to this day as a guiding light for freedom and liberty because it endows the federal government with necessary powers, but sets deliberate limits on those powers." Rooney also sponsored H. Res. 1006, a resolution reaffirming the House's commitment to uphold and protect the 10th Amendment, which states, "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." "Our founding fathers carefully limited the size and scope of the federal government. Constitution Day should serve as a reminder to our elected officials about their solemn vow to uphold the Constitution, including the 10th Amendment."
09.17.2010	Rep. Roscoe Bartlett Urges Americans to Celebrate Constitution Day Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (R-6-MD) today urged Americans, and especially young people and their parents and teachers, to celebrate the anniversary of the United States Constitution on Constitution Day on September, 17. Congressman Bartlett said, "Americans will keep our freedom and liberty if we take time to understand how these precious rights are protected by our Constitution." In September of 1787, the streets of Philadelphia were abuzz with excitement. A group of the nation's top minds led by Revolutionary War hero, George Washington, had assembled to discuss the ways in which the original rules for the national government, the Articles of Confederation, might be amended to improve commerce. The details of these meetings were kept secret, but it was soon clear that something much larger was going on. When their work was finished, the delegates of the Constitutional Convention unveiled their product. A woman in the crowd asked "What have you given us?" The oldest delegate, Benjamin Franklin, replied "A republic, Madam, if you can keep it." Congressman Roscoe Bartlett said: "It's important to remember the beginning of our Constitution to understand how we got to where we are today. Every day, the United States continues to set the world record for the longest lasting constitutional republic. Our Constitution is what guarantees that the government of the United States of America is based upon the Rule of Law. Originally, the colonists left Europe to escape two things: tyranny of the crown and tyranny of religion. Once they were here, they found that tyranny of the crown still existed and the Revolutionary War was fought. Our Constitution was designed to protect American citizens from a government that could inflict either of these two things. Our Constitution guarantees certain unalienable rights to American citizens that have enabled us to develop from thirteen colonies into the land of opportunity and home of the free that we are now known for today." Congressman Bartlett concluded, "Each year, Constitution Day – the 17th of September –is a terrific opportunity for Americans to reflect on how this remarkable document secures the freedoms and liberty that we are privileged to enjoy. In order to rise to Ben Franklin's challenge, every American has a responsibility to keep our republic alive and thriving by holding our federal elected officials accountable for upholding the Rule of Law in our Constitution."
09.16.2010	Friday, September 17, 2010 marks the 223rd anniversary of the signing of the U.S. Constitution in Philadelphia, PA. Each year, this date is commemorated as the nation's official Constitution Day. In recognition of Constitution Day, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) is inviting constituents to visit his Ogden office to pick up a free pocket-sized Constitution. "It is my hope that Utahns will take time this year to read or re-familiarize themselves with the Constitution and the fundamental tenants our founding fathers included in the document to help safeguard our liberties and rights as citizens," said Bishop. WHAT: Pocket Constitution available to the public in recognition of Constitution Day WHERE: 324 25th Street, Suite 1017 Ogden, Utah 84401 DATE: Friday, September 17, 2010 TIME: Please feel free to stop by between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. (MT) For more information, please call Congressman Bishop's Ogden office at (801) 625-0107 *Supplies are limited and will be provided on a first come, first serve basis. Click HERE for directions to Congressman Bishop's Ogden office from your home or place of business.
09.16.2010	Contact: Catherine Mortensen Office: 202.225.4422; Cell : 202.841.2653 Catherine.Mortensen@mail.house.gov Honoring and Supporting Constitution Day Today, Congressman Doug Lamborn released the following statement to recognize and celebrate September 17, 2010 as Constitution Day. "It is my great honor to be an original co-sponsor of a resolution honoring and supporting Constitution Day. I join with the people of Colorado's Fifth Congressional District and Americans around the country in celebrating our commitment to our nation's founding document. This year marks 223 years since the 39 delegates of the Constitutional Convention signed that inspired document. "Unfortunately, President Obama and Congressional Democrats have strayed far from the vision the founders had for this great country. Democrats want to raise taxes on all Americans, deny individuals choice when it comes to their health care, and vastly expand the scope and reach of the federal government. "We must return to the guidance provided by the Constitution, which wisely grants limited powers to the federal government to ensure that individual liberties and freedoms are not trampled. "Please join me in renewing our appreciation for the Constitution of the United States. As a member of the House of Representatives, I swore an oath to support and defend it. Let us all take time on September 17th to read and ponder those words that have allowed us to persevere as a nation for over two centuries. Take time and discuss it with a young person in your life, because our liberty depends just as much on their understanding of America and its rich history." – Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05) Note: Congressman Lamborn is a member of the Congressional Constitution Caucus. Members promote the need for our government to operate consistently with our Founding Fathers' intent for limited government, reserving most authority over domestic issues to the states, local governments and the people themselves.
09.14.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined with 19 Republican colleagues from the House Natural Resources Committee on a letter to committee Chairman Nick Rahall (D-WV) requesting that a hearing be held in order to examine the increasing use of federal lands along the border for drug trafficking and human smuggling. The hearing will address current federal land management policies that have enabled federal border lands to be commandeered by criminal drug organizations as trafficking highways as well as the subsequent environmental damage that has resulted from the illegal activities. In April, Congressman Bishop introduced, H.R. 5016, legislation that seeks to rectify current land management policies that restrict the U.S. Border Patrol's (USBP) access to federal lands along the border and prevent the USBP from conducting routine patrols, which have proven to be an effective deterrent for criminal border activity. "A simple internet search or scan of the news yields volumes of examples and incidents where our federally owned and managed lands along the border are being used by criminal organizations for the smuggling of drugs, humans and other contraband into the U.S," said Congressman Bishop, who serves as the Ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and is Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus. "Our federal border lands are a haven for criminal activity. We have a responsibility to protect the citizens of this country and right now the weaknesses that exist on our federal lands are a serious threat to our national security. The time is long overdue for this Committee to fully examine this issue, and then act to fix the problems." Highlights of the letter: "Drug smuggling, murders, human trafficking and other illegal activities have become prevalent on America's public lands, including National Parks, National Forests, Wildlife Refuges, and other protected areas near our Southern border. In June, the Washington Post reported that since 2006 over 23,000 people have been killed due to drug violence in Mexico—violence that is spilling into, and through, our federal lands." "As the Committee of jurisdiction over the majority of our federal lands and considering the gravity of the current situation, we believe it is this Committee's duty to act to ensure that both public safety and environmental protection are achieved on public lands by taking the steps necessary to fully secure the border against cartels and criminals. The American people deserve straight answers from the agencies responsible for protecting our borders and public lands. There is simply no excuse for allowing government policies to continue that hamper the Border Patrol and create paths of access to violent criminal activity. This situation is what led Republicans to introduce a legislative solution (H.R. 5016) that very simply ensures the Border Patrol has the authority to achieve operational control of the border on public lands." "In addition to calling both Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano before the Committee, we request that a hearing include witnesses from the relevant agencies, including the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Forest Service, National Park Service, and the Bureau of Land Management. State and local law enforcement should also be included." The following 20 Republican Members of the House Natural Resources Committee signed on to the letter: 1. Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), Committee Ranking Member 2. Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) 3. Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO) 4. Rep. Henry E. Brown Jr. (R-SC-01) 5. Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA) 6. Rep. Don Young (R-AK) 7. Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-CA) 8. Rep. John J. Duncan Jr. (R-TN) 9. Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) 10. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) 11. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) 12. Rep. Bull Shuster (R-PA) 13. Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) 14. Rep. Robert J. Wittman (R-VA) 15. Rep. Paul C. Broun (R-GA) 16. Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) 17. Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) 18. Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) 19. Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) 20. Rep. Bill Cassidy (R-LA)
08.30.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop released the following statement regarding the death of Eric Wright, who had begun an internship in Mr. Bishop's office just one week ago: "Eric's passing is tragic and heartbreaking. Although he had just started his internship, he was a great fit and he'll be missed. We're deeply saddened and will be keeping Doug and D and the entire Wright family in our thoughts and prayers, and hope they find the strength and support they need to deal with this tragedy." The KSL newstory about Eric and the incident is here:http://www.ksl.com/index.php?nid=148&sid=12206563 ##
08.26.2010	On Saturday, August 28, 2010 Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) will participate in the Take Back Utah rally held in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah. The Take Back Utah rally brings together advocates from around the U.S. who support wise management and multiple use of the nation's public lands. Last year, the rally welcomed over 4,000 outdoor enthusiasts and public land users from around the country. During his remarks this Saturday, Bishop will address the current Administration's efforts to lock up federal lands throughout the West, including secret internal documents that he recently obtained from the Department of Interior (DOI) that show planning within the Administration to lock up as many as 13 million acres and acquire more federal lands as part of their "treasured landscapes" initiative. Congressman Bishop serves as the Ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee for National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and is Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus. WHAT: Take Back Utah rally featuring Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), other Utah lawmakers and local community leaders WHERE: Utah State Capitol Salt Lake City, Utah DATE: Saturday, August 28, 2010 TIME: Parade begins at 10:00 a.m. MDT Rally begins at 12:00 p.m. MDT on the front steps of the State Capitol
08.17.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced that he will hold town hall meetings in Davis and Weber Counties tomorrow, August 18, 2010. "I look forward to meeting with residents of Weber and Davis counties to discuss current events taking place in Utah as well as back in Washington, D.C.," said Congressman Bishop. "The meetings will serve as an open forum to discuss new ideas as well as any concerns that folks may have with the way Washington policies are affecting their communities and the state as a whole." Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year as well as every August during the Congressional summer work period to provide Utahns with an opportunity to have face-to-face discussions about their questions and concerns. This year, Republicans have launched a new initiative, America Speaking Out, which will be incorporated in Bishop's traditional town hall format. America Speaking Out serves as an open forum to discuss new ideas that will help shape the Republican agenda in Congress. DAVIS COUNTY WHAT: Town hall meeting hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) WHERE: Farmington City Council Chambers 160 South Main Street Farmington, Utah DATE: Wednesday, August 18, 2010 TIME: 5:30 p.m. MDTWEBER COUNTY WHAT: Town hall meeting hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) WHERE: Riverdale Senior Center 4433 South 900 West Riverdale, Utah DATE: Wednesday, August 18, 2010 TIME: 7:30 p.m. MDT *These events are open to the media
08.17.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) has introduced a proposal on AmericaSpeakingOut.com that would help make all Members of Congress more accountable and responsive to their constituents both in Washington, D.C. and back in their home states. Click here to view Bishop's remarks and speak out on his proposal
08.17.2010	In response to the recent U.S. District Court decision that overturned the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's decision to remove gray wolves in the Northern Rockies from the endangered species list, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) pledged today to work toward a common-sense solution that would both delist the gray wolf and provide needed improvements to the Endangered Species Act (ESA). "It is time for a thoughtful, bipartisan, science-based solution to the ongoing debate over whether or not to delist the gray wolf. Today, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) overemphasizes the listing of species and under-emphasizes their actual recovery. In most instances, state and local officials are better situated and more capable of managing and preserving wildlife than the federal government. These locally-based efforts are further hampered by frivolous lawsuits and acts of judicial overreach, which are often used as tools to negate the recovery and progress being made at the state and local levels," said Congressman Bishop. The Congressional Western Caucus intends to introduce legislation that will not only address the need to delist the gray wolf but also empower state and local decision making to manage imperiled species with the goal of recovery and future delisting. "In addition to working with the state and federal managers to ensure the long-term vitality of the gray wolf population, the Western Caucus remains committed to playing a leading role in improving the ESA's ability to protect species as well as private property owners," Bishop added.
08.17.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, today announced that he recently obtained the preceding 14 pages previously missing from an internal Department of Interior (DOI) memo leaked last February. The original document obtained in February by Bishop detailed planning within the DOI to use the Antiquities Act to potentially designate up to 13 million acres throughout the West as new national monuments. The newly obtained 14 pages further detail plans within the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to completely overhaul the way federal lands are managed in the U.S., including the creation of new ecosystem areas that require the acquisition of new federal lands. The plans would vastly expand the power, reach and control of federal land managers. "These 14 pages are further evidence of this Administration's efforts, under the guidance of Secretary Salazar, to control western lands by unilaterally locking them up without input from local residents and stakeholders nor the approval of Congress. Their plotting behind closed doors is disingenuous at best and flies in the face of this Administration's so-called ‘transparency'," said Congressman Bishop. "Thousands of westerners whose livelihoods depend upon access to our public lands stand to be affected by these decisions and yet this document blatantly goes out of its way to exclude their input or participation. If there was any question about whether or not this Administration has declared a war on the West, these new documents are evidence enough." The BLM is only one of the divisions of the DOI that have compiled similar memos. On February 26, 2010, Congressman Bishop, House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04) and other Western Caucus Members sent a letter to DOI Secretary Ken Salazar requesting all relative information pertaining to the DOI's plans to designate new national monuments throughout the West. It has been more than five months since the request was made and the DOI continues to refuse to fully comply with the official document request."The reality is that this is NOT the complete set of documents pertaining to the Administration's plans to overhaul the way public lands are managed in this country. We know that other documents like this are out there. We've requested them, but the folks at Interior continue to stonewall," Bishop added. "My biggest concern is that if they're willing to let documents this damning out from their safekeeping, they are surely protecting others that are far worse and even more revealing." Page 3, paragraph 6: The sentence, "In order to expand this network of treasured lands to include the diversity of landscapes currently managed by the BLM…," shows that the Administration is working to broaden the jurisdictional scope of lands currently managed by the BLM.Page 5, paragraph 5: The sentence, "Should the legislative process not prove fruitful, or if a nationally significant natural or cultural land resource were to come under threat of imminent harm, the BLM would recommend that the Administration consider using the Antiquities Act…," shows that the Administration is constructing a new management structure without the approval of Congress.Page 6 (b), page 7 (4.), page 8 (3.): Details planning for further land acquisition and funding mechanisms.Page 7, paragraph 1; Page 6, paragraph 7: By their own numbers, the Administration will target the "acute" problem of private landholdings in BLM administered areas to the sum of 412,675 acres, or more than 370,000 football fields.Page 9, paragraph 5: The sentence, "The BLM recommends that any major funding increases be phased in over a five-year period to allow the BLM time to build capacity in order to accomplish the increased work-load," shows that the BLM will require an increase in funding to accommodate the proposed expanded management of lands throughout the West. "I remain committed to forcing Secretary Salazar and all others involved in this matter into the light of full transparency, which as these documents prove, is not a place they seem to be comfortable," Bishop concluded. "But this potential land and power grab needs to exposed, it needs to be laid out before the public, and it needs to be stopped."
08.03.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) was notified last night by Department of Interior (DOI) staff that Secretary Ken Salazar declined an invitation to meet with the Utah Congressional delegation today while he is in Utah. Last week, the entire Utah Congressional delegation requested a meeting with Secretary Salazar, who is in Utah today for what the DOI is calling a "listening tour." The delegation requested the meeting with Salazar to discuss federal court Judge David M. Ebel's recent decision to overturn the U.S. Department of Interior's decision to deny right-of-way access essential to the Skull Valley Goshute Indian Tribe's efforts to lease land to a group of utility companies for the storage of high-level nuclear waste. "If the Secretary is truly interested in ‘listening,' as his so-called ‘tour' indicates, it seems to me that he would want to set aside a few minutes to discuss what next steps will be taken by the DOI to address the judge's recent decision," said Congressman Bishop. "I've always said this was a long-term fight and as long as the license existed, we needed to be vigilant. As we've done in the past, with things like the Cedar Mountain Wilderness, we will continue to use every legislative and political tool we have to oppose this ill-advised and unsafe scheme." Despite the fact that he is spending the day in Utah, Secretary Salazar notified the delegation that his schedule could not accommodate a meeting. He offered to send a DOI staffer in his stead. "Though Salazar refuses to meet with the Congressional delegation, I am confident that Governor Herbert, who was able to secure a meeting with the Secretary while he's in Utah, will represent the concerns shared by many Utahns over the proposed nuclear waste storage. It is my hope that they will forge a partnership that will pave the way for an appeal of the judge's decision," Bishop concluded. "I am extremely grateful for the Governor's steadfast commitment to this issue and for his consistent willingness to work with the Congressional delegation as we fight to protect Utahns from the unsafe storage of high-level nuclear waste. It is a true testament to his unwavering dedication to protect the future vitality of our state."
07.30.2010	The Congressional 10th Amendment Task Force today introduced a House Resolution, reaffirming Congress' commitment to the principle of federalism and the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The resolution specifically calls for "real decentralization of power" and recognizes that "the cause of liberty demands that government should be made accountable again to the consent of the governed" through the restoration of American federalism. "The Founding Fathers' vision of a limited national government of enumerated powers has gradually given way to an intrusive, irresponsible, and virtually omnipotent national government. I am proud to be among the efforts to engaged and educate other Members of Congress on the importance of restoring federalism principles in Congress," said Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), co-founder of the 10th Amendment Task Force. The following members were original co-sponsors of the resolution: 10 original co-founders of the 10th Amendment Task Force: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Marsha Blackburn (TN-07), John Culberson (TA-07), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Scott Garrett (NJ-05), Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Michael Conaway (TX-11) and; House Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence (IN-06), RSC ChairmanTom Price (GA-06), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Joseph Pitts (PA-16), Robert Latta (OH-05), Roscoe Bartlett (MD-06), Mike Coffman (CO-06), Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Bill Cassidy (LA-06), Tom Graves (GA-09), and Phil Gingrey (GA-11) Text of resoltuion: Recognizing that the cause of liberty demands that government should be made accountable again to the consent of the governed and calling for the real decentralization of power through the restoration of American federalism. Whereas this is a Nation of States, and federalism is central to the structure of government and the very definition of American constitutionalism; Whereas as James Madison famously noted in The Federalist, ‘‘The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are few and defined'', and that ‘‘Those which are to remain in the State governments are numerous and indefinite.''; Whereas throughout American history and the laws of the United States, most powers of government and as a result the decisions that affect citizens' day-to-day lives were to be made at the State level; Whereas the relationship between the Federal Government, the several States, and the sovereign people is summed up most succinctly in the Tenth Amendment, ‘‘The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.''; Whereas the structural division of powers and functions between the Federal Government and the several States provides a double security against abusive government by causing each level of government to check the other in the name of upholding the rights and protecting the liberties of the people of the United States; Whereas in recognizing and protecting a sphere of state autonomy and local self-government federalism has expanded liberty, accommodated a vast diversity of opinions and fostered an extensive array of policy innovations in addressing and solving many of the nation's greatest challenges. Whereas ever-increasing amounts of regulations and laws emanating from the Federal Government, occurring in stages over the whole course of the 20th century but gathering particular momentum with the expansion of regulatory government in the 1960s, have centralized and bureaucratized political rule in the United States, undermining the balance of federalism and threatening self-government; Whereas under the current Administration, the ideology of big government has found a new voice and a new sponsor, and the results, from massive spending to the takeover of whole industries to new regulatory initiatives to the explosion of debt, have been especially threatening and destructive to the idea and structural integrity of federalism; and Whereas in an atmosphere where courts and the executive seem to be moving in the opposite direction, a new Congress must take upon itself the responsibility to limit the scope of Federal powers and extend the ability of the several States to assert their legitimate powers; and Whereas there are many policy areas that have become federal government concerns but are better dealt with at the state and local levels of government, the devolution of which will provide for dynamism, opportunity, and creativity in solving problems and fostering prosperity in the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That— (1) the House of Representatives— (A) recognizes that the cause of liberty demands that government be made accountable again to the consent of the governed, bringing it closer to the people and returning to them control over their lives while making it better able to solve their problems and serve the common good; and (B) recognizes the historic and continuing importance of federalism and reaffirms its commitment to safeguard and uphold constitutional government as defined by the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution; and (2) it is the sense of the House of Representatives that— (A) this situation requires, and the very future of freedom and limited government depends on, a restoration of American federalism and a real decentralization of government power and vast areas of policymaking from the Federal Government to States, local communities, neighborhoods, families, and individual citizens; and (B) while recognizing that the restoration of federalism will require a widespread and extensive restructuring of federal government operations, and that not all or even most of solutions come from the national capitol, the best path toward achieving the goal of real structural reform is through practical but significant policy reforms that will allow the several States to prove the virtues of federalism and thereby build a new nation-wide consensus for decentralizing political power in the United States.
07.30.2010	The Congressional 10th Amendment Task Force today introduced a House Resolution, reaffirming Congress' commitment to the principle of federalism and the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The resolution specifically calls for "real decentralization of power" and recognizes that "the cause of liberty demands that government should be made accountable again to the consent of the governed" through the restoration of American federalism. "The Founding Fathers' vision of a limited national government of enumerated powers has gradually given way to an intrusive, irresponsible, and virtually omnipotent national government. I am proud to be among the efforts to engaged and educate other Members of Congress on the importance of restoring federalism principles in Congress," said Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), co-founder of the 10th Amendment Task Force. The following members were original co-sponsors of the resolution: 10 original co-founders of the 10th Amendment Task Force: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Marsha Blackburn (TN-07), John Culberson (TA-07), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Scott Garrett (NJ-05), Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Michael Conaway (TX-11) and; House Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence (IN-06), RSC ChairmanTom Price (GA-06), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Joseph Pitts (PA-16), Robert Latta (OH-05), Roscoe Bartlett (MD-06), Mike Coffman (CO-06), Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Bill Cassidy (LA-06), Tom Graves (GA-09), and Phil Gingrey (GA-11) Text of resoltuion: Recognizing that the cause of liberty demands that government should be made accountable again to the consent of the governed and calling for the real decentralization of power through the restoration of American federalism. Whereas this is a Nation of States, and federalism is central to the structure of government and the very definition of American constitutionalism; Whereas as James Madison famously noted in The Federalist, ‘‘The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are few and defined'', and that ‘‘Those which are to remain in the State governments are numerous and indefinite.''; Whereas throughout American history and the laws of the United States, most powers of government and as a result the decisions that affect citizens' day-to-day lives were to be made at the State level; Whereas the relationship between the Federal Government, the several States, and the sovereign people is summed up most succinctly in the Tenth Amendment, ‘‘The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.''; Whereas the structural division of powers and functions between the Federal Government and the several States provides a double security against abusive government by causing each level of government to check the other in the name of upholding the rights and protecting the liberties of the people of the United States; Whereas in recognizing and protecting a sphere of state autonomy and local self-government federalism has expanded liberty, accommodated a vast diversity of opinions and fostered an extensive array of policy innovations in addressing and solving many of the nation's greatest challenges. Whereas ever-increasing amounts of regulations and laws emanating from the Federal Government, occurring in stages over the whole course of the 20th century but gathering particular momentum with the expansion of regulatory government in the 1960s, have centralized and bureaucratized political rule in the United States, undermining the balance of federalism and threatening self-government; Whereas under the current Administration, the ideology of big government has found a new voice and a new sponsor, and the results, from massive spending to the takeover of whole industries to new regulatory initiatives to the explosion of debt, have been especially threatening and destructive to the idea and structural integrity of federalism; and Whereas in an atmosphere where courts and the executive seem to be moving in the opposite direction, a new Congress must take upon itself the responsibility to limit the scope of Federal powers and extend the ability of the several States to assert their legitimate powers; and Whereas there are many policy areas that have become federal government concerns but are better dealt with at the state and local levels of government, the devolution of which will provide for dynamism, opportunity, and creativity in solving problems and fostering prosperity in the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That— (1) the House of Representatives— (A) recognizes that the cause of liberty demands that government be made accountable again to the consent of the governed, bringing it closer to the people and returning to them control over their lives while making it better able to solve their problems and serve the common good; and (B) recognizes the historic and continuing importance of federalism and reaffirms its commitment to safeguard and uphold constitutional government as defined by the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution; and (2) it is the sense of the House of Representatives that— (A) this situation requires, and the very future of freedom and limited government depends on, a restoration of American federalism and a real decentralization of government power and vast areas of policymaking from the Federal Government to States, local communities, neighborhoods, families, and individual citizens; and (B) while recognizing that the restoration of federalism will require a widespread and extensive restructuring of federal government operations, and that not all or even most of solutions come from the national capitol, the best path toward achieving the goal of real structural reform is through practical but significant policy reforms that will allow the several States to prove the virtues of federalism and thereby build a new nation-wide consensus for decentralizing political power in the United States.
07.29.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced that he was informed this morning by top Air Force Officials that Hill Air Force Base (AFB) has been selected as the Air Force's "preferred alternative" for the location of the first two operational squadrons of the new, advanced F-35 stealth fighter beginning as early as July 2013. The officials indicated that Hill would likely obtain a third operational squadron mid-2019, assuming the F-35 program remains funded and on-course. F-16s currently stationed at Hill in two remaining squadrons at the 388th Fighter Wing are gradually being shifted into Air National Guard units nationwide, and the hope is to replace those planes with new F-35s as they roll off the production line in 2013. The F-35A Lightning II is the Air Force version of the airplane developed by the Joint Strike Fighter Program. "Utah, and specifically Hill AFB, is home to one of our nation's premier air-combat training facilities and I am pleased that it will be home to the Air Force's new F-35,"said Congressman Bishop. Hill AFB, centrally located in Utah's First Congressional District, is the single largest employer in the State of Utah. The base alone provides nearly 30,000 jobs for contractors, military personnel and civilians. "It makes perfect sense for the Air Force to select Hill for the F-35 given its proximity to the incomparable Utah Test and Training Range, and also the squadron's co-location with the Ogden Air Logistics Center, which will maintain the F-35 for decades to come. This is very welcomed news," Bishop added. In 2005, Congressman Bishop took necessary steps to protect the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR) by drafting and introducing the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act [H.R. 1503]. This legislation, supported by the Utah Congressional delegation, was included in Public Law 109-163 in late 2005, and helped to ensure that the UTTR and Hill AFB remain one of the most versatile, valuable and protected training locations in the country, making it an ideal location for future generations of the Air Force's air-combat squadrons such as the F-35. Despite the President's cuts to U.S. Air Force budgets, including the termination of the F-22 fighter, Congressman Bishop fought to ensure that Hill AFB remained one of the Air Force's premier destinations for fighter squadrons, including his efforts to preserve the F-22 and F-25. "While the decision is not one-hundred percent concrete until the final Environmental Impact Statement is complete, I am confident that we will clear all necessary requirements in order to ensure that Hill continues to play a prominent role in the Air Force's readiness and training capabilities," Bishop concluded. The final record of decision making Hill's selection certain is expected in January 2011. -30-
07.22.2010	Today, the House Committee on Science and Technology approved the NASA Authorization Act of 2010. Language backed by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), that assists in the preservation of the Ares 1 rocket and Orion space capsule, was included in the final version passed out of the Committee today. This legislation must now be voted on by the full House of Representatives for final passage. "This has been a team effort on behalf of the entire Utah delegation from day one. This week, we were able to build upon developments made last week in the Senate by including even stronger language that will help ensure the preservation of solid rocket motor technologies, such as the Ares 1 rocket. Congressman Matheson was successful today in getting language inserted into the bill that may help with the mitigation costs issue, so we continue to make progress one step at a time. "While we aren't out of the woods yet, this is a significant advancement in our efforts to ensure that the U.S. does not forfeit its dominance in space exploration and missile defense to foreign and often unfriendly countries. I will continue to help maintain this positive momentum by working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to ensure that all essential components necessary to the preservation of solid rocket technologies are upheld during the final conference committee process," said Congressman Bishop.
07.21.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), along with 80 other Members of Congress, signed on this week to an amicus brief, submitted to the U.S. District Court by the American Center for Law and Justice, to deny the federal government's motion for a preliminary injunction against S.B. 1070, a recently-passed immigration law in Arizona. "The restrictive federal land management policies along our southern border have left vast unpatrolled corridors that provide human and drug traffickers with virtually unmitigated entrance into the U.S. For far too long, states like Arizona have been left to deal with the ongoing illegal activity occurring along the border. The federal government should be focused on securing the border and shouldn't waste time trying to prohibit states from playing a role and doing what they may feel is appropriate," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop is the leading voice in efforts to bring much needed security to federal lands along the southern U.S. border. He has introduced legislation that would provide the U.S. Border Patrol with the same levels of access on federal lands as they currently have on state and private property [H.R. 5016].
07.20.2010	A stalwart of NASA's manned space program and the Ares 1 rocket, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today announced that the House version of the NASA Authorization Act of 2010 officially includes language calling for the preservation of the Ares 1 rocket and the Orion space capsule. The draft legislative language, backed by Bishop, was released today by the House Committee on Science and Technology. If passed, the bill would help preserve thousands of jobs as well as key components of America's missile defense capabilities. The exact language citing the Ares rocket can be found here on page 6. "It is extremely encouraging that both the House and Senate, in a bipartisan manner, have recognized the importance of maintaining solid rocket motor technologies, such as the Ares 1 rocket. The draft House version of this bill is a strong repudiation of the President's flawed proposal – stronger even than the good developments we saw last week out of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation."Building on the momentum generated by the recent Senate proposal, the House version takes a further step toward preserving the Ares 1 rocket and the future of manned space flight, but we still have a ways to go and legislative hurdles to cross. I will continue to work with my House colleagues to ensure that the final version reconciled in the conference committee includes all components necessary to maintain superior national defense capabilities and the future of manned space flight," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, the House NASA Authorization Act: • Unlike the Senate legislation, reaffirms the U.S. Manned Spaceflight program and specifically mentions that both the Orion space capsule and the Ares 1 rocket should be preserved. (pg. 6) • States that NASA will be required to develop the capability to provide low earth orbit (LEO) access, such as to the International Space Station, by no later than December 31, 2015. This represents a reaffirmation of Orion and Ares, since no private sector competitor to the Orion space capsule and Ares 1 rocket is currently capable of safe, human-rated flight. (pg. 25) • Ensures that key milestones of the original Constellation plan are maintained, including requiring NASA to have the separate heavy-lift capability "by the end of the decade" to be able to demonstrate ability to reach "challenging destinations" in space, including Lagrangian points, the Moon, near-Earth objects, as well as Mars and its moons. (pg. 27) • States that NASA "shall take maximum benefit from the prior investments made in Orion and Ares 1 rocket…" (pg. 28) • Takes approximately $850 million/year out of the new Obama science initiatives and puts that money into the Human Space Exploration Accounts. • Leaves $50 million a year for commercial crew efforts and institutes a new $100 million business loan program for commercial crew manufacturers that can meet certain minimum standards of technical and scientific capability. The loans would have to be repaid, but provides a source of capital upon which to develop private space capabilities for commercial gain. • Addresses the termination liability issue by pointing out how the current NASA regime is inconsistent with past NASA practices on contract termination liability. (pg. 9) The Science Committee intends to meet this Thursday, July 22nd at 10:00 AM to consider this legislation.
07.16.2010	During today's House Natural Resources full committee markup of the CLEAR Act [H.R. 3534], Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voiced concern for the numerous unrelated provisions included in the legislation that impose new regulations and restrictions on onshore energy development. Bishop also serves as the ranking Republican on the House Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. The CLEAR Act was originally introduced in September 2009 by Congressman Nick Rahall (WV-03) as one of the Democrats' energy bills. Despite a number of hearings on the legislation, the bill never made it to the House floor. Now, nearly one year later, the same legislation has resurfaced as a vehicle for new onshore energy restrictions introduced under the guise of responding to the oil spill in the Gulf Coast. During the markup, Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA) admitted that he saw this legislation as an opportunity to attach new restrictions for geothermal energy. Regarding the introduction of his amendment, the Geothermal Production Expansion Act (H.R. 3709), Inslee stated "This is a really nice train leaving the station and probably the only one this Congress." Click here to view his remarks during the House Natural Resourcing Committee markup. "Too much of this legislation has absolutely nothing to do with bringing reforms to offshore drilling. Instead, the tragic Gulf oil spill is being leveraged to pass harsh new restrictions on onshore energy. Reforms to offshore drilling are necessary, but instead of addressing the crisis at hand, House Democrats on the Resources Committee are using the oil spill as a way to pass new and unrelated policies that severely hamper onshore energy production," said Congressman Bishop. New provisions included in Titles III and IV of H.R. 3534 make onshore leasing more expensive, increase uncertainty and add new layers of bureaucratic red tape that hinder production of domestic energy resources. "It's a shame that radical environmental special interest groups are trying to use a real tragedy like the Gulf disaster to promote their stale, discredited ideology of raising taxes and locking up America's resources. Is there anything that will shake their conviction that higher taxes and greater energy dependence is the right course for this nation? Democrats and special interest groups took one look at this bill and no doubt saw an opportunity. Today's hearing should have focused solely on addressing the crisis in the Gulf instead of dithering about unrelated and unproductive public lands polices and onshore drilling regulations," Bishop added. The Congressional Western Caucus recently released a document showing that the Administration was distracted with its early political agenda while the Minerals Management Service was exhibiting warning signs that, if responded to, could have helped prevent the disaster in the gulf. Click here to view the document.
07.16.2010	Following today's announcement by Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Robert Bennett (R-UT) that the Senate NASA Reauthorization Bill will now include language to authorize funding for a 130 metric ton heavy-lift program, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) released the following statement: "I commend Senators Hatch and Bennett for their tireless efforts within the Senate to ensure that heavy-lift rockets as part of NASA's space exploration programs include solid rocket motor technology. There is still much work to be done, and while the compromise language doesn't include everything we wanted, this latest advancement takes us one step closer to preserving a critical component of space exploration as well as national defense. "Thousands of Utahns stand to be disproportionately affected by the President's proposed plan to terminate the Ares rockets as a part of NASA's manned space exploration program. In addition to displacing thousands of uniquely skilled space and defense workers, Obama's earlier plan would severely handicap missile defense capabilities essential to our national defense and the security of our country. It is irresponsible to place the political agendas of few over the safety and security of all. "The Senate compromise announced today represents a significant rejection of the Obama Administration's earlier pronouncements on heavy-lift and its plan to effectively end U.S. manned spaceflight. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to ensure that the momentum for compromise generated in the Senate is carried over to the House when it takes up the measure. "Senator Hatch, Senator Bennett and I, along with support from other Congressional colleagues on both sides of the political aisle who support a strong manned space program, will remain vigilant in our fight to ensure that NASA follows every law passed by Congress and that the Administration be stopped from implementing reckless policy decisions." If the authorized funding for a 130 metric ton heavy-lift program is approved in the Senate NASA Appropriations Bill, NASA would be authorized to begin funding a heavy lift program starting in FY 2011. This is a significant departure from the President's budget recommendation for NASA to hold off on heavy lift programs until 2016.
07.15.2010	The Center for Immigration Studies has produced its second web-based film, "Hidden Cameras on the Arizona Border 2," on the impact of illegal activity along the southern border of Arizona. Tomorrow, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, will join in the official release of the documentary as well the participate in a panel discussion on border security. The Center's first video on the subject, "Hidden Cameras on the Arizona Border: Coyotes, Bears, and Trails," has received over 50,000 views to date. "Hidden Cameras on the Arizona Border 2" raises the bar, featuring footage of gun and drug smuggling from within 80 miles inside the Arizona border, including on federal lands, to show the reality of the escalating illegal activity. The 10-minute mini-documentary will be screened on Thursday, July 15, 2010 at 12:15 p.m. in the Zenger Room at the National Press Club, 14th and F Streets, NW. Admission is free and open to the public. Following the screening, several speakers will discuss the issues addressed by the film: • Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and ranking Republican on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, will discuss the impact of illegal activity on federal lands. • Janice Kephart, the Center for Immigration Studies' Director of National Security Studies and producer of the film, will discuss the making of the film and the difficulty in obtaining cooperation from the federal government while conducting research for its script. • A key source of the hidden-camera footage used in this mini-documentary will join the discussion by conference call from Arizona, in order to remain anonymous. • Moderator: Mark Krikorian, Executive Director of the Center for Immigration Studies.
07.14.2010	Today, Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), along with Members of the Senate and House Western Caucuses, hosted a bicameral hearing entitled the "War on Western Jobs." Caucus Members and witnesses examined the Administration's policies and their negative impact on jobs and communities throughout the West. Highlights from the Hearing "There is a War on Western Jobs being waged by this Administration. Families and businesses throughout the West are struggling to make ends meet. This Administration's anti-business, anti-multiple use agenda threatens Western communities. It is killing jobs and undermining state and local budgets. Washington needs to help or get of the way."- U.S. Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senate Western Caucus Chairman "The most pressing issue of the day for Westerners, like most other Americans, is jobs. Our constituents need to know we are aware of the problems they are facing in today's tough economic climate. After hearing from our constituents and the witnesses who presented today, it was made clear that this Administration and the majority in this Congress have declared a new ‘War on the West.' We hope today's hearing helped shine some light on the negative economic impact that policies currently being pursued by this Administration are having on western jobs." - Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), House Western Caucus Chairman "The new level of regulation does nothing but create ‘analysis paralysis' on the United States' ability to address our national energy crisis. At a time that off-shore drilling has been stymied by the environmental disaster off the Gulf Coast, it is more important than ever that our federal government allows us to safely access on-shore reserves."- Governor Gary Herbert (R-UT) "Last year, tens of thousands of jobs evaporated when the Obama Administration, at the urging of their radical environmental allies and friends, cut-off federally-owned water to family farms in the San Joaquin Valley of California. In exchange for the forced unemployment -- which surpassed 40% in some communities -- the Obama Administration provided $400 million in government stimulus. Yet a majority of the money went to congressional districts of Democrats who supported cutting off the water. If Democrats were not so blinded by political ideology and support from radical environmentalists, logic might prevail -- it does not take $400 million in failed stimulus to recover tens of thousands of jobs. Just turn on the water. It's free!"- Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) "The administration is attacking the west on two fronts. Public land grabs and expanding regulations under the pretense of the America's Commitment to Clean Water Act. Land grabs and regulation represent an assault on the energy industry. Examples include the Grand Staircase Escalante monument and ANWR. It is also noted that the "NOT FOR RELEASE" document mentioned 14 potential monuments designations or expansions in nine states covering up to 13 million acres."- Christopher Horner, Author and Senior Fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI) "The EPA has several proposed rules that would affect the western states. The coal ash disposal rules would increase disposal cost of ash from $10 a ton to $150 a ton or more. The EPA is proposing NAAQS for ozone to be lowered to 0.060 ppm. If this is passed 650 of the 675 monitored counties would not comply with this regulation. These counties would lose highway funding as well as deter business that need air permits."- William Kovacs, Senior Vice President, Environment, Technology and Regulatory Affairs- U.S. Chamber of Commerce The hearing also featured human impact statements from residents of the West whose livelihoods have been negatively impacted by policies created under the current Administration. Click here to view a fact sheet from today's hearing Chart #1- Top 20 most economically challenged countiesChart#2- Declines in employment to population ratio by stateMap depicting all federal land ownership in the U.S.
07.07.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced that he will hold a town hall meeting, Thursday, July 8, 2010 at 7:30 p.m. MDT. The meeting will serve as a forum for discussion on a number of topics and will feature a new Republican-led effort, "America Speaking Out," that allows all Utahns to participate in the development of the agenda set forth by Congress. Specifically, "America Speaking Out" is an interactive web-based forum launched by House Republicans that bridges the growing disconnect between the priorities of Americans and Congress. "I look forward to discussing current events happening in both Utah and Washington during Thursday's town hall meeting in Tooele," said Congressman Bishop. "I hope residents of Tooele County and surrounding areas will join me to discuss how Washington can better represent their priorities." Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year to provide Utahns with an opportunity to have face-to-face discussions about their questions and concerns. WHAT: Congressman Bishop to host Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Tooele County Health Department Auditorium 151 North Main Street Tooele, UT DATE: Thursday, July 8, 2010 TIME: 7:30 p.m. MDT Click here for more information about the town hall
07.07.2010	Chairmen Rep. Bishop and Senator Barrasso Invite Secretary Salazar to Explain Administration's Policies Senate Senate Western Caucus Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY) and Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) will host a bicameral House and Senate Caucus hearing entitled "The War on Western Jobs" on Tuesday, July 13, 2010. The hearing will examine the Administration's policies and their negative impact on jobs and communities throughout the West. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the West has maintained the highest regional unemployment for over 12 months. Today, Senator Barrasso and Congressman Bishop sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. They invited him to attend the hearing and answer questions about the economic impact of the Administration's policies. Excerpts of the letter: "The purpose of this hearing is to examine the negative economic impacts on western jobs and communities from policies currently being pursued by this Administration. "As Secretary of Interior and former Senator from Colorado, you know firsthand what is happening on the ground in the West. Many western communities are facing extremely complex and diverse problems- population growth and development, water supply and quality, housing, overlapping federal bureaucracies and conflicting regulations, and immigration. However, the most pressing issue of the day is jobs for all Americans. Unfortunately, many of these challenges are exacerbated, not alleviated, by federal policies emerging from Washington. Too often, federal policies stand in the way of real job creation and economic growth." Hearing Details: WHAT: Joint House and Senate Western Caucus hearing on "The War on Western Jobs" WHERE: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 406 Washington, D.C. WHO: The hearing with feature notable guests such as, Utah Governor Gary Herbert, Bill Kovacs- Chamber of Commerce, author Chris Horner-Competitive Enterprise Institute, Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) who represents much of California's Central Valley, and others from western states and industries. DATE: Tuesday, July 13, 2010 TIME: 2:30 p.m. EDT
07.02.2010	The Congressional Western Caucus released a report today entitled "Salazar: The New Sheriff in Town," that details the events taking place at the Department of Interior (DOI) and the Minerals Management Service (MMS) leading up to the April 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. The timeline raises troubling questions about whether Secretary Ken Salazar and MMS officials were distracted by the Administration's political agenda instead of focusing on the ongoing dysfunction within MMS. click here to view timeline
07.02.2010	Today, the House of Representatives will vote on the FY 2010 Supplemental Appropriations bill that contains a provision allowing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to transfer an unlimited amount of funds to the Department of the Interior (DOI) in the form of environmental mitigation payments demanded in return for allowing the U.S. Border Patrol to simply do its job to secure the border on federal lands. The supplemental bill is to provide money for American troops fighting overseas. The border security fund diversion provision would expressly permit DOI to use the transferred funds to buy millions of dollars of private land. The Democrat-controlled Rules Committee blocked an amendment to strike this provision from being debated and voted on by the full House. The amendment was offered by National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Ranking Member Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Full Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04). "Americans should be outraged to know that not only is DOI blocking Border Patrol's efforts to secure the border, but it is actually charging DHS millions of dollars just to conduct border patrol operations on its land. This is called extortion," said Congressman Bishop. "The bill gives permanent authority for DOI to extort money from DHS with no dollar amount limits written into law. The money can then be used to buy up more private land along the border and make our security problem even worse. We have a crisis situation on our southern border where drug smugglers, human traffickers and other criminals have taken advantage of the security gaps on our public lands. It makes no sense that instead of responding to this crisis, Congress would give its blessing to the diversion of millions of dollars away from our Homeland Security efforts." "Park Rangers should not be dictating our nation's border security policies and Congress should not be giving carte blanche authority to the Interior Department to divert security funds away from the Border Patrol," said Ranking Member Hastings. "Democrats should never have attached such a rewrite of the law on a bill to provide vital funding to American troops fighting overseas." Background Environmental regulations, enforced by DOI and U.S. Forest Service land managers, are preventing DHS and Border Patrol from effectively securing our nation's borders on federal lands. For example, DOI, citing the 1964 Wilderness Act, has blocked Border Patrol from siting and building electronic surveillance infrastructure in Wilderness areas. DHS has paid DOI over $9 million since 2007 to mitigate the purported "environmental damage" of protecting our border. Per a Memorandum of Agreement signed in 2009, DHS agreed to hand over an additional $50 million for mitigation funds to DOI. In an October 2009 letter, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano writes that allowing Border Patrol to monitor these areas helps mitigate against environmental damage: "Overall, the removal of cross-border violators from public lands is a value to the environment as well as to the mission of the land managers. The USBP believes that operations are generally functionally equivalent to mitigation. Recognition of this equivalency could prevent what we see as unnecessary and potentially very large mitigation requirements." House Republicans, led by Congressman Bishop, have introduced legislation (H.R. 5016) that would give U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) operational control of the border and ensure that the U.S. Department of Interior does not impede or restrict Border Patrol from effectively doing its job to secure the border. For more information visit www.republicans.resourcescommittee.house.gov/border
07.01.2010	President Obama today delivered remarks on immigration reform that failed to clearly provide a plan or path forward on border security. Ongoing violence occurring throughout the U.S.'s southern border region continues to be a primary concern for many Americans. A majority of the criminal activity along the border occurs on federal lands where the U.S. Border Patrol is not permitted to have a steady presence, something the President failed to address in today's speech. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Republican on the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, recently introduced legislation [h.r. 5016]that would allow the Border Patrol to have a greater presence on federal land, as they do on state and private lands, located throughout the border region. We can't solve the immigration issue without first securing the border; and more money and more boots on the ground won't be effective without greater access to the public lands on the border," said Congressman Bishop. Nearly 40% of the U.S.-Mexico border region consists of federally owned and managed lands. Most recently, sections of national parks, wilderness areas and other federal lands near the southern border have been closed to the public due to Mexican drug cartels' control of the area. "It is clear to me, more now than ever before, that President Obama and his Administration just don't get it. Today's remarks, which were heavy on rhetoric and light on substance, don't inspire confidence that this Administration has a concrete plan, or even the desire, to achieve full operational control of the border. The reality is that the U.S.-Mexico border is one of the primary entry points into the U.S. for smugglers, traffickers and other criminals - due in part to the unpatrolled federal lands that provide unmitigated access into the U.S.," Bishop added. "Today President Obama stated that the border is more secure today than it has been in 20 years. He has been misinformed. In reality, the porous southern border is one of the greatest threats to our national security and it's well known that things are getting worse, not better. Apprehensions may be down but it's widely known that it's not due to less trafficking and smuggling, but rather to our inability to adequately capture the criminals as they enter the U.S." President Obama has recently traveled on taxpayer dollars to deliver remarks in Wisconsin, Toronto, Florida, Alabama, Michigan, and Maryland to name a few. However, he has never toured the southern U.S. border. "If there is one issue that transcends party lines, it's the issue of border security. Nearly every American agrees that we must secure our border and put a stop to the ongoing violence. Yet, the President has made it very clear that the concerns of the American people take a back seat to his own political agenda. Trying to reform immigration policies before we secure the border is foolish. If your bathtub is overflowing, you don't deal first with the water already in the tub. You first turn off the faucet to stop the flow. We can't solve the immigration issue without stopping the flow by first securing the border," Bishop concluded.
06.29.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court ruling that the Second Amendment provides all Americans a fundamental right to bear arms. "Today's ruling affirms the plain language of the Second Amendment that the right to keep and bear arms is an individual right. The Court rightly reiterated that the Second Amendment is an important part of the Constitution and fundamental to the liberty of all law-abiding Americans," said Congressman Bishop.
06.25.2010	As part of the Administration's "Summer of Recovery," Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) has asked Vice President Joe Biden to include Utah as one of the states he plans to visit. In a letter sent yesterday, Bishop notes that Utah will not likely be one of the States celebrating the "Summer of Recovery" with Vice President Biden since many Utah residents are currently gearing up to brace for an anticipated 2500 layoffs due to recent policies handed down by President Obama that will end NASA's Constellation Program and the Ares rocket, built at Utah's ATK facility. Juli Weiner, Vanity Fair It's not just summer, everyone, it's Barack Obama and Joe Biden's Recovery Summer™! Ha ha, what? Exactly! According to Politico, Barack Obama and Joe Biden's Recovery Summer™ is "a six-week-long push designed to highlight the jobs accompanying a surge in stimulus-funded projects to improve highways, parks, drinking water and other public works." Anytime anyone gets a job during the months of June and July, we can credit this to Barack Obama and Joe Biden's Recovery Summer™. As VF.com resident cynic Bill Bradley noted, "This is exactly the kind of stuff Joan Didion ridicules." But how many jobs did Joan Didion ever create? Obama and Biden will celebrate the season by visiting Recovery Act projects all over the country, and will start by traveling to Ohio and Michigan, respectively. Imagine if F.D.R. went on a roadtrip (with Joe Biden). That's what this is like. Click here to view the letter
06.24.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5175, the Democracy Is Strengthened By Casting Light On Spending In Elections (DISCLOSE) Act. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) voted against this legislation, which would restrict the First Amendment right to free speech for some, while making exemptions for labor unions and Washington special interest groups. "This is an attempt by the Democrats to silence those who disagree with their radical agenda. This bill contradicts its very purpose by making special deals for some, like the unions, while unfairly targeting others. Supporters of this initiative may have succeeded today in the House, but they will never truly succeed in silencing the American people who continue to voice their opposition for the way Washington is being run. The passage of this bill is just another example of Washington bureaucrats trying to siphon power away from the American people. In this particular instance, they are actively trying to curtail the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. This bill would be better named the DISGUST Act, Democrats In Secret Giving Unions Special Treatment," said Congressman Bishop. Specifically, this legislation: • Unfairly exempts unions and Washington special interests from unconstitutional and cumbersome reporting requirements designed to discourage certain organizations from engaging in political debate. • Bans political speech by government contractors and TARP recipients but not unions with collective bargaining agreements with the government or unions who receive dues from government payroll deductions. • Imposes legally unsound limitations on coordinated communications between federal candidates and organizations. • Creates highly complex reporting requirements – unlikely to impact unions – that would have high compliance costs and disproportionate effects on small businesses. • Deliberately and recklessly seeks to affect the 2010 elections by taking effect in 30 days without waiting for the FEC to issue instructions and rules so people can follow the law and avoid criminal and civil punishment.
06.23.2010	Despite the fact that millions of Americans remain out of work, on June 17, 2010 the Office of the Vice President announced the "Summer of Recovery" project- a new initiative launched by the White House to try to prove that seemingly failed policies have somehow helped alleviate soaring unemployment across the country. In a letter sent today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) took the opportunity to invite Vice President Biden to Utah, and specifically the First Congressional District, this summer as part of the roll-out of the "Summer of Recovery" activities. "As the Vice President finalizes his "Summer of Recovery" activities, it is my hope that he will consider Utah as one of the states he plans to visit. Touting job creation and projects in strategically picked states no doubt bodes well for PR purposes but what about the thousands of Utahns who will likely receive pink slips in the coming months solely as a result of decisions and policies made by this Administration. Are they no less worthy of the Vice President's time? His visit would help address the unchallenged evidence that this Administration's political agenda is more important than the jobs of over 2000 Utahns," said Congressman Bishop. Excerpts of the letter: It is truly a bold move on the Administration's part to proclaim a summer of recovery even as millions across the country remain out of work and, even more troubling, in light of many more Americans, like thousands of Utahns, who have already lost jobs, and many more who literally stand on the brink of receiving pink slips, due directly to specific actions of this Administration. I sincerely wish I could share your enthusiasm for this Administration's record on jobs. Regrettably, I do not. I fear that the reality of the employment situation is much less rosy, and far more troubling, than your office's documents suggest. That is why I would like to invite you, as a part of the roll-out of the "Summer of Recovery" activities the Administration apparently plans, to visit my home state of Utah, and specifically my Congressional district... Your visit would be a testament to your commitment to bi-partisan efforts for working together for the betterment of our nation. I would invite you, as our Vice-President, to explain in person to these thousands of hard working, tax-paying Americans presently working on Constellation and Ares, how it is a better policy for their government to subsidize Russian Soyuz space workers for the foreseeable future, while putting them in the unemployment line even as the Administration proposes to add $6 billion more for NASA over the next five years. It just does not add up. I would like to hear your explanations myself.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recognizing the importance of federal payments to rural counties, 14 Senators and 21 House members from both parties today sent Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar a letter urging the Administration to abandon plans to delay sending Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) money and release the funds before the end of this month. "The timely arrival of these funds is essential for rural and western communities. This delay puts an unnecessary additional burden on Western states during the most critical time in their fiscal calendar. The West remains under siege by this Administration and this is just further evidence of that fact," said Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT). PILT payments are made to counties and other local governments to offset losses in tax revenues due to the presence of substantial acreage of federal land in their jurisdictions. Nearly $381 million was distributed to counties across the nation in FY2009. Traditionally, the payments are made by June 30, in time for the start of the fiscal year for most counties. The formula used to compute the payments is based on population, receipt sharing payments, and the amount of federal land within an affected county. While the Department of Interior (DOI) distributes PILT to 49 states, plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands, much of the money goes to counties in western states where the federal government owns large tracts of land. The program was created in 1977. Excerpts of the letter: "County governments, already facing a dismal economic situation, cannot wait an extra month for these funds, or simply suspend their operations for a month," the Members of Congress said in a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar. "They need these funds now, simply to keep their doors open." "At a minimum, the Department should determine if there is any short-term solution to this issue so that a payment can go out to counties this month." While acknowledging that estimating the money due each county is complicated, the 35 Members of Congress, urged the DOI to consider providing estimated payments that can be adjusted later so that rural counties are not left stranded while the problems are resolved. Members of Congress signing the letter include: Senators: Harry Reid (D-NV), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), James Risch (R-ID), Patty Murray (D-WA), Orrin G. Hatch (R-UT), Max Baucus (D-MT), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Michael B. Enzi (R-NV), Mark Begich (D-AK), John Barrasso (R-WY), John Ensign (R-NV), Jon Tester (D-MT) Representatives: Rob Bishop (R-UT), David Wu (D-OR), Greg Walden (R-OR), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Jim Matheson (D-UT), Tom Cole (R-OK), Jim Costa (D-CA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Don Young (R-AK), Cynthia M. Lummis (R-WY), Wally Herger (R-CA), Denny Rehberg (R-MT), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Michael K. Simpson (R-ID); Doc Hastings (R-WA), Betsy Markey (D-CO). click here to read more about the Congressional Western Caucus
06.16.2010	Last night, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) spoke before the House of Representatives to "plead the 10th" regarding the Work-Life Balance Award Act (H.R. 4855). "I plead the 10th" is an effort by the 10th Amendment Task Force to educate Members and the public about the principles of federalism. Members of the Task Force will "plead the 10th" before the House of Representatives when legislation being considered in Congress conflicts with the principles of federalism. This will serve as a reminder that Washington cannot and should not be the solution to every problem in America.click here to view Bishop's remarks Transcript of remarks: Mr. Speaker today I thank you and I rise today to plead the 10th. Earlier today this body voted on H.R. 4855 that would establish within the Department of Labor an annual work-life balance award for employers that have developed and implemented work-life balanced policies. The bill would also establish an advisory board to administer the award. Although I oppose this legislation, I want to make it clear that I actually think that the ultimate goals of this bill are good ones. The sponsors have the best intentions. I want to repeat that, the goals and objectives of this bill are respectable and even noble ideas. No one questions that a proper work-life balance is extremely important. But, just because something is important, doesn't mean that Washington has to write a law to protect it or create a bureau to encourage it, or even have anything else to do with it… in fact, it is simply not the job of the federal government to promote good work-life balance. There will be many more egregious bills in the future that will mandate, by the federal government to states and locals and to the people, behavior in certain circumstances. But not the incredibly worst bills that are out there withstanding, this Constitution makes the principle very clear, the Constitution gives Congress here in Washington certain powers that are limited and in case we weren't clear on the concept or we didn't get it, it includes the 10th Amendment which states that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people." In other words, if a power is not assigned to the federal government in the Constitution, then it must be automatically assumed to be assigned to states, localities or to no government entity at all. So imagine that Mr. Speaker, a problem in America not being solved with the involvement of the federal government. Some in this chamber cannot envision such a world, but it can exist. So I rise today to say that I do believe in the Constitution and the 10th Amendment. I remain hopeful that congress will remember our limitations, begin to return the consideration of life's most important elements back to the states, local governments, churches, private groups and families where they really should be handled. Therefore Mr. Speaker on this particular issue I plead the 10th.
06.16.2010	The U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) today announced that disbursement of FY 2010 Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) funds will be delayed until July 2010. Historically, local governments receive PILT funds in June. Most county budgets are drafted with the expectation that funds will be distributed by DOI under the standard distribution calendar. Local governments were not notified of the changes until today. "Due to the large amount of federally owned land in the western states, the local tax base in many of our local communities is limited. For this reason, PILT funding is critical to the health of communities across the West especially in our current economic environment," said Western Caucus Policy Chairman Dean Heller (NV-02.) "Some in Washington may view this scheduling change as a small inconvenience, but for the western and rural communities that rely upon these funds, this delay will create an added burden while they struggle to overcome growing unemployment rates. This delay in payments will only hurt the ability of local governments to provide much needed services. Once again, this Administration has shown indifference to the needs of communities throughout the West." The Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) provides payments to counties and other local governments to offset losses in tax revenues due to the presence of substantial acreage of federal land in their jurisdictions. Since local governments are unable to tax the property values or products derived from federal lands, these payments are essential to support vital community services such as schools, first responders, transportation infrastructure and healthcare in rural communities. Click here to learn more about the Congressional Western Caucus
06.16.2010	The Firearms Freedom on Federal Lands Act (H.R. 5523), introduced yesterday by Western Caucus Members Denny Rehberg (MT-At large), Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Paul Broun (GA-10), has earned the endorsement of two critical Second Amendment advocacy groups- the National Rifle Association and the Montana Shooting Sports Association. The legislation seeks to prevent the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior from issuing or enforcing any regulation or executive order, including presidential declarations authorized under the Antiquities Act, that prohibit an individual from possessing a firearm on lands managed by the Forest Service or Bureau of Land Management (BLM). "It has been an NRA priority to end the patchwork of gun laws on America's public lands, and we are pleased that members of Congress are introducing this critical legislation. This step will bring clarity and uniformity for law-abiding gun owners visiting our nation's public lands. NRA will continue to support the American people's God-given right of self-defense," said Chris W. Cox of the National Rifle Association. "Thanks to Denny for introducing this bill, an important, proactive measure that will prevent administrative curtailment of our cherished right to bear arms," said President of the Montana Shooting Sports Association President Gary Marbut. Click here to read more about the bill
06.15.2010	Fox NewsClick HERE to Watch Note: To help address violence on federal lands along the border, House Republicans, led by National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Ranking Member Rob Bishop (UT-01), have introduced legislation (H.R. 5016) to ensure that the Department of Interior and Department of Agriculture do not prevent U.S. Border Patrol from having operational control of the border. This commonsense bill would give Border Patrol both the authority and access to effectively monitor and protect our federal lands on the border. For more information visit www.republicans.resourcescommittee.house.gov/border
06.15.2010	Congressional Western Caucus Members Denny Rehberg (MT-AL), Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Paul Broun (GA-10) have introduced the Firearms Freedom on Federal Lands Act (H.R. 5523) to prevent the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior from issuing or enforcing any regulation or executive order, including presidential declarations authorized under the Antiquities Act, that prohibit an individual from possessing a firearm on lands managed by the Forest Service or Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Bishop, Rehberg and Broun are also members of the Second Amendment Task Force. The legislation responds to the Obama Administration's disturbing pattern of bypassing congressional authority and public input when making decisions that affect our public lands, including the Department of the Interior's (DOI) leaked plan to designate 13 million acres as new National Monuments. "There's a large segment of powerful Washington, D.C. elites that thinks the Second Amendment is obsolete and unnecessary," said Congressman Rehberg. "These progressives envision a world where only criminals and agents of the state are armed, and will use every tactic at their disposal to make this a reality. It's up to Congress to protect these rights from overreaching bureaucrats, and that's exactly what this legislation seeks to do." "There is no question that there are many in Washington who would like to do away with the Second Amendment altogether and are aggressively finding new avenues to fulfill this very agenda. Just last year, my fellow Western colleagues and I were successful in reversing outdated laws that prevent individuals complying with federal and state laws from exercising their right to carry a concealed firearm while visiting national parks and wildlife refuges. Today, we are taking similar steps to safeguard Second Amendment rights on BLM and Forest Service lands from the heavy handedness of Washington bureaucrats looking to fulfill their political agendas," said Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop. "The right to keep and bear arms is one of the most fundamental rights of a free people," said Congressman Paul Broun who also serves as co-chairman of the Congressional Second Amendment Task Force. "Since lawmakers and judicial activists continuously attempt to strip Americans of their second amendment rights, it is critical that we pass legislation that protects people's rights to exercise this precious freedom all across America." Until last year, when Congress stepped in to correct the problem, the National Park Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service prevented visitors from carrying firearms on federally controlled National Parks and National Wildlife Refuges; however, no such statute prevents the Forest Service or BLM from issuing similar restrictions banning guns on lands under their management. Visitors choosing to bring a firearm onto these lands would continue to be governed under state law. "We applaud Congressmen Rehberg, Bishop and Broun for taking the lead in making sure all outdoorsmen can continue to pursue their passion on Forest Service and BLM lands," said David Allen, Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation President and CEO. "It's vitally important to the future of our outdoor traditions, recreation, conservation and economic impact—but also for the future of wildlife management. For these same reasons, we are very concerned about future proposed federal land designations that have the potential to inhibit sporting activity, access and opportunity as we know it today. We are disappointed that RMEF and other similar wildlife conservation groups have not been included so far in the planning process to re-designate significant amounts of public land as new National Monument land."
06.11.2010	Following a recent string of violence on federal lands along our Southern Border, Natural Resources Committee Republicans today received documents confirming that yet another brutal murder took place on federal lands. Pima County Sheriff's Department documents verify that the murder of Mario Rivera-Rivera, whose body was discovered last November, occurred 25 yards from the US-Mexico border in the Organ Pipe National Monument. In a seemingly execution style murder, the body of Mario Rivera-Rivera was described in police reports with "duct tape wrapped around his head, covering the forehead, the nose, and the upper lip area...both hands were behind his back…wrapped with duct tape…a gunshot wound on the right ear, which exited in the front of his face." Federal lands along the border have become increasingly dangerous due to the enforcement of environmental restrictions that prohibit the U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) from accessing these areas. As a result, these federal lands have become highways for criminals, drug smugglers and human traffickers. In fact, Organ Pipe National Monument has become so unsafe that the National Parks Service has an entire webpage dedicated to safety issues due to border violence. "It is an outrage that our federal lands have turned into an interstate for drug smugglers, thieves, murderers and rapists. These national parks, monuments and public lands should be treasures for all to enjoy, not playgrounds for violent criminals. Visitors to these areas should not have to fear for their safety, yet it's well documented that much of these federal lands are unsafe for tourists and federal land managers to enter. No one would stand for this violence and lawlessness at Yellowstone or Yosemite National Parks, yet the Federal Government continues to take an ‘out of sight, out of mind' position to our public lands on the Southern Border. U.S. Border Patrol needs to have operational control of our borders to ensure public safety, national security and environmental integrity," said Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus. House Republicans, led by Rep. Bishop, have introduced legislation (H.R. 5016 ) that would give USBP operational control of the border and ensure that the U.S. Department of Interior does not impede or restrict Border Patrol from effectively doing their to job to secure the border. For more information visit www.republicans.resourcescommittee.house.gov/border
06.10.2010	For months, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) has argued that President Obama's plan to cancel the Ares rocket and terminate NASA's Constellation program would significantly harm our national security and missile defense capabilities. Those arguments echo concerns from analysis done by the Department of Defense. Bishop has also frequently pointed out that Utah will disproportionately suffer from the President's space proposal. That position was validated this week by CEO and founder of SpaceX Elon Musk (a supporter and beneficiary of the President's new flawed plan) who stated in a recent interview with This Week In Space, that Utah will suffer "the most." "…there is really only one state that is going to suffer from the Obama plan and that is Utah," Musk stated.click here to watch the full interview"Elon Musk is right that Utah will suffer under the Obama plan, but so will the rest of the country – and not just because of the thousands of jobs that will be lost. The President's plan relinquishes America's position as the leader in space exploration and severely handicaps our security and missile defense. In the end, all of us in America suffer under that scenario, and that is unacceptable," said Congressman Rob Bishop.
06.08.2010	BREAKING NEWS: Bureau of Land Management officials confirm that the two men found shot to death yesterday near the U.S.-Mexico border were discovered on federal land located in the Sonoran Desert National Monument, not far from where Pinal County Deputy Louie Puroll was shot last month by a band of suspected smugglers. House Republicans, led by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Ranking Republican on the House Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, have introduced legislation that, if passed, would help reduce the ongoing criminal activity occurring on federal border lands. H.R. 5016 would ensure that the U.S. Department of Interior does not restrict or impede the U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) from having operational control of federal lands along the border where the bulk of criminal activity is occurring. This would allow USBP to start apprehending and deterring the criminals whose smuggling operations rely on unlimited access to the under-patrolled federal lands throughout the border region. Federal border lands have become a haven for criminal activity including drug smuggling and human trafficking because USBP is unable to access much of these areas. The lack of access comes as a result of environmental policies created and enforced by federal land managers who cite concerns that USBP presence will cause damage to the landscape. Ironically, a significant portion of these "protected" federal lands suffer ongoing degradation from smuggling trains that have caused severe environmental damage to the lands – such as mounds of discarded trash, and destroyed vegetation. "This recent shooting is further evidence that immediate action must be taken to bring security to federal lands throughout the border region. It is inexcusable that these areas continue to serve as a haven for criminal activity. This is not a Democrat or Republican issue, this is a matter of national security and the time for action is now. It makes absolutely no sense that H.R. 5016 sits dormant while murders and other crimes continue to overrun our federal border lands solely because federal land managers have placed their agendas before the safety and security of this country," said Congressman Bishop. Two men killed in smuggling corridor By Jana Baybado/KTAR News June 7th, 2010 CASA GRANDE, Ariz. -- Two men have been found shot to death in the desert near Interstate 8 and State Route 84, a popular route for drug smugglers and human smugglers traveling from the Arizona-Mexico border to the Valley. Pinal County Sheriff's Lt. Tamatha Villar said the bodies were found after the sheriff's office received a 911 call from a man about 8 o'clock Sunday night. She said the man "advised us he was in the desert area near Interstate 8 and mile marker 160. He advised us that he and a friend had been shot and that they needed help. Our communications center lost the signal with them." The shooting was in the same area where Pinal County Deputy Louie Puroll was shot April 30 while tracking a bunch of drug smugglers. He survived. Four possible suspects were arrested. Villar said investigators had "very, very limited information" about the latest shooting on Monday. "The scope of the crime scene is enormous," she said. "It's desert, vast desert, obviously a volatile area so our units have to be extremely cautious as they proceed through their investigation." No information about the victims was released. Mile marker 160 on I-8 is about 18 miles west of Casa Grande.
06.04.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced that he will hold a town hall meeting Saturday, June 5th at 1:00 p.m. MDT to provide a forum for discussion about current events in Washington, D.C. and to introduce "America Speaking Out", a new interactive web-based forum launched by House Republicans that seeks to bridge the growing disconnect between the priorities of Americans and the agenda set forth by Congress. "In addition to introducing America Speaking Out, Saturday's town hall will serve as an open forum for constituents to share their thoughts on current events occurring in both Utah and Washington," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop hosts town hall meetings throughout the year to provide Utahns with an opportunity to have face-to-face discussions about their questions and concerns. WHAT: Congressman Bishop to host Town Hall Meeting WHERE: Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge Visitors' Center Auditorium 2155 West Forest Street Brigham City, UT DATE: Saturday, June 5, 2010 TIME: 1:00 p.m. MDT*This event is open to the media
06.01.2010	Today, the full U.S. House of Representatives approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2011 (H.R. 5136). The annual legislation, which includes many provisions that will have a positive impact in Utah and for local military installations and personnel, passed out of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) just last week. During consideration this week, the House maintained language, sponsored by Congressman Bishop, reaffirming the vital need to maintain our country's Solid Rocket Motor industrial base. The northern Utah lawmaker has long pointed out the critical connection between NASA's Constellation program and the future of our national defense and missile defense capabilities. The Bishop language, included in the final report of the bill, also criticizes NASA for its efforts to terminate the Constellation program without sufficiently consulting with the Department of Defense. Among other things, the Defense Authorization Bill also includes: • An additional $7.5 million in funding to maintain a warm line for the Minuteman III program. • Full funding for continued procurement of the F-35 fighter at planned FY11 levels. • A provision, sponsored specifically by Bishop, which directs the Army to coordinate with the Department of Health and Human Services on transferring title of 2.5 acres of land at the former Defense Depot Ogden (DDOU) to the City of Ogden for further economic development. • $2.8 million in funding authorization for an F-22 Engine Test Cell Facility at Hill Air Force Base. • $398.4 million in funding authorization for a National Cyber security Initiative Data Center at Camp Williams, Utah. • Support for military personnel and their families, including a cost-of-living increase and significant equipment upgrades for the National Guard. After final passage of the legislation, Congressman Bishop made the following statement: "The Armed Services Committee process was very bipartisan, with a general lack of controversy because folks there worked together and produced a consensus bill. Some of the provisions I was successful in inserting came about because both Republican and Democratic members and staff were committed to mutually solving problems and not just scoring political points or pushing an agenda. That process produced a decent bill, and I supported it." "On the issue of ‘don't ask, don't tell', the Committee worked with military leadership, where it could, to accommodate their desires to delay any change until they had completed their own study and review. Unfortunately, when this bill came to the floor, the civility and bipartisanship that were present in Committee broke down. It is disappointing that this important legislation, critical to the defense of our country and the safety and security of our troops and their families, was co-opted by Congressional leadership as a vehicle to advance a political agenda. They took a bipartisan product and turned it into a partisan tool. It didn't have to be this way." Following a series of amendments to the original legislation passed out of HASC, Congressman Bishop voted no on the final passage of H.R. 5136.
05.26.2010	Last night, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) delivered remarks on the ineffectiveness of troop presence along the border if highly trafficked areas on federal lands remain off limits to the U.S. Border Patrol and National Guard troops.Click Here to Watch
05.26.2010	In an effort to continue his fight to preserve NASA's manned space flight program, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) made a guest appearance today at a hearing held by the House Committee on Science and Technology. During the hearing, Bishop questioned NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden about conflicting statements that he, along with other NASA officials, have made about costs associated with the Constellation program and specifically the Ares rocket. Click Here to Watch
05.25.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands responded to the President's reported plan to send 1,200 National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border to assist in border security efforts: "The escalating criminal activity occurring along our southern border has reached unprecedented proportions. I commend the President for taking the necessary steps to begin deploying National Guard troops to the southern border. However, if we are to be successful in our endeavors to bring long-term and sustainable security to the U.S.-Mexico border, the U.S. Border Patrol and National Guard troops must have full and unrestricted access to the entire border region, including federal lands. Keeping some of the most highly trafficked areas off-limits is a plan destined to fail. "While U.S. Border Patrol agents are no doubt doing everything they can to apprehend and deter the organized drug smuggling and human trafficking operations, agents continue to be locked out of highly trafficked areas due to policies created and enforced by federal land managers. This allows criminals unfettered entry into the U.S. On top of that, these areas that should otherwise be ‘protected public lands,' have suffered severe environmental degradation from trash and fires left behind by constant waves of traffickers. Allowing the Border Patrol and National Guard access to these areas would drastically improve both national security and the health of the land."
05.25.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) joined with House Republicans to launch "AmericaSpeakingOut.com," an innovative and interactive new initiative that engages the American people in the process of building a new national policy agenda. At AmericaSpeakingOut.com, Americans can submit ideas on a host of important policy issues and have each of those ideas debated and discussed on its merits in an open and transparent online venue. "Throughout this past year and a half, I watched and listened to Americans as they joined together for rallies, meetings and marches to take a stand against growing government intrusion into their lives. They are making their voices heard and it's time that Washington listened," said Congressman Bishop. "I am proud to be a part of this new initiative that will give Americans a greater voice in the development of the national agenda and an opportunity to help ensure that Congress is more responsive and accountable." Congressman Bishop, who over the years has consistently hosted town hall meetings throughout Utah's First Congressional District, will continue to sponsor such gatherings, including events tied directly to this "America Speaking Out" effort. His ongoing efforts, in coordination with House Republicans and the AmericaSpeakingOut.com website, will give northern Utahns the chance to directly and actively participate in the development of a new governing agenda. WHAT IS AMERICA SPEAKING OUT?America Speaking Out is an effort by the House Republican Conference to engage Americans across the country and give them a voice in creating a new agenda for Congress. To give power back to the American people and restore these broken bonds of trust, House Republicans are asking all Americans to be a part of building a new governing agenda. This new initiative will open the back rooms and closed doors that recently have defined Congress and allow Americans to be a part of drafting a governing agenda from the start. Americans will have an opportunity to participate online as well as in person during town hall events and forums with Rep. Bishop and with House Republicans all across the country. Click here to read more about America Speaking Out.
05.21.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Member on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands issued the following statement in response to Mexican President Felipe Calderon's remarks before Congress: "Though I do not agree with all aspects of President Calderon's remarks today, especially his comments on the Second Amendment, one thing we can agree is that shoring up the holes in our border and ending the constant flow of drug traffickers into the U.S. must be a priority for both countries. "The first and most immediate step that must be taken is closing the gaps on our border, many of which exist on federal lands. There are over 20 million acres of federal lands along the U.S. border and over four million of those are designated wilderness areas. Much of these areas are currently off-limits to the U.S. Border Patrol due to restrictions created and enforced by federal land managers. This means that much of our border is unpatrolled and unmonitored. "Due to the lack of Border Patrol presence, dangerous Mexican drug cartels have taken advantage of open-access points and are currently using these unpatrolled areas as trafficking corridors. "If we intend to begin to address the violence along the border, we must begin by allowing our Border Patrol agents to adequately do their jobs. After my requests for Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to address this situation went unanswered, I introduced legislation that would give the U.S. Border Patrol priority access to critical areas of the border region. "We must allow those charged with the responsibility of securing our border access to areas that experience the highest rates of criminal activity. It's common sense."
05.21.2010	Members of the Congressional Western Caucus today announced the introduction of legislation that would prevent the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) from being used as a vehicle to advance climate regulations that are outside the scope and original intent of NEPA. H.R. 5342 was introduced by Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and fellow Western Caucus members Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Rep. Don Young (R-AK) and Rep. Wally Herger (R-CA). H.R. 5342, the House counterpart to S. 3230 introduced in the Senate on April 20, 2010 by Senators Inhofe (OK) and Barrasso (WY), will ensure that federal agencies implementing the requirements of NEPA won't engage, or be forced to engage in costly and unnecessary assessments specific to a potential influence on climate change. The bill would also help reduce the flood of activist-inspired litigation designed to change NEPA into a global warming prevention statute. "Activist groups, with the Obama Administration's help, are hijacking existing environmental statutes in an attempt to advance their global warming agenda. Western industries that provide resources and jobs are often the target of special interest groups using laws like NEPA as a means to slow or stop production. NEPA was never intended to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. H.R. 5342 will stop the litigation and delays and prevent the Administration from imposing backdoor energy taxes that American consumers don't want and can't afford," said Congressman Bishop. In addition to legislation, Members of the Western Caucus sent Nancy Sutley, Chairwoman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), a letter expressing concern over the CEQ's recent recommendation that federal agencies consider and evaluate climate change and greenhouse gas emissions during the NEPA process. Click here to view a fact sheet on the legislation
05.21.2010	Last night, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and fellow members of the House Armed Services Committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2011, which included many provisions that will be beneficial to the State of Utah and local installations and personnel. The annual legislation, which sets policies and authorizes programs and funding levels for the Department of Defense (DOD) and the nation's military, now heads to the House floor for consideration. "Providing for the common defense is a primary Constitutional duty of the federal government, and while this legislation doesn't go as far in certain areas as I would like, I'm grateful for the bipartisan elements of the bill that will strengthen our national security and support our troops," said Congressman Bishop. Remaining firm in his commitment to fight for NASA's Constellation program and the future our national defense and missile defense capabilities, Congressman Bishop secured language reaffirming the critical need to maintain our country's Solid Rocket Motor industrial base, noting "that it is in the strategic interests of the United States." The Bishop language, included in the final report of the bill, also criticizes NASA for its efforts to terminate the Constellation program without sufficiently consulting with the Department of Defense. Among other things, the NDAA: • Provides additional $7.5 million in funding to maintain a warm line for the Minuteman III program. • Fully funds continued procurement of the F-35 fighter at planned FY11 levels. • Includes a provision, sponsored specifically by Bishop, which directs the Army to coordinate with the Department of Health and Human Services on transferring title of 2.5 acres of land at the former Defense Depot Ogden (DDOU) to the City of Ogden for further economic development. • Authorizes $2.8 million in funding for an F-22 Engine Test Cell Facility at Hill Air Force Base. • Authorizes $398.4 million for a National Cybersecurity Initiative Data Center at Camp Williams, Utah. • Provides for the support of military personnel and their families, including a 1.9% cost-of-living increase and significant equipment upgrades for the National Guard. "I appreciate the committee including report language pointing out that, for a strong national defense, we've got to maintain our Solid Rocket Motor industrial base. Thanks to our efforts, the Committee is now on record in outlining the negative impacts that could come in terms of national security and costs from NASA trying to cut Constellation and not sufficiently consulting with DOD. Also, the additional funding to maintain a warm line for the Minuteman III program will ensure we don't lose that strategic capability as well," Bishop added. "Finally, hopefully our provision dealing with the land at the old Ogden depot will help clear the way for Ogden City to take ownership of those acres and use them for their needs."
05.17.2010	Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) responded to the Department of Interior's (DOI) announcement of new onshore oil and gas leasing policies. "Not only will these new regulations add multiple layers of redundant red tape and significantly reduce America's ability to reduce our dependency on foreign oil, they will also hinder job creation in communities and regions already experiencing severe job loss. Secretary Salazar has once again chosen his anti-energy allies over the interests of the people and nation. Energy prices are expected to skyrocket this summer. Instead of working to make prices more affordable, this Administration is doing the exact opposite," said Congressman Bishop. According to the DOI, the new plan was established to "resolve protests prior to lease sales." Specifically, all new leases, despite the fact that they may have already been subject to a prior environmental review, will again be subject to environmental assessment and documentation that the DOI states will, "reduce the number of protests filed, as well as enhance the BLM's ability to resolve protests before lease sales." "Energy production and the health and vitality of the West's public lands are not mutually exclusive. Yet, new DOI policies continue to imply that it's one or the other. There is some irony in that new rules purportedly designed to ‘engage the public' were developed without any public meetings or any public input. The energy policies from this administration have already diverted billions of dollars of investment away from the West. These new policies will only increase uncertainty and hinder responsible development in the West," Bishop concludes. As Senators, both President Obama and Secretary Salazar supported the bipartisan Energy Policy Act of 2005. In January, the Congressional Western Caucus sent Secretary Salazar a letter requesting that the DOI reconsider plans to impose new mandates for onshore energy production.
05.14.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement in response to Senator Jay Rockefeller's (D-W.Va.) comments that opponents of the President's plan to cancel NASA's manned space flight program are worried solely about jobs. Senator Rockefeller made the statements yesterday during a hearing held by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. The President's plan, which Senator Rockefeller supports, will put 30,000 American high-tech space engineers and experienced technicians out of work and negatively impact technologies used in both space exploration and missile defense. Under the President's plan, the U.S. will relinquish its position as a leader in space technologies, while in turn subsidizing and supporting Russian Space workers associated with the Soyuz. "The Senator is right, cutting NASA's manned space flight program isn't just about jobs, it's also about the loss of our missile defense capabilities, technological and innovative edge in space exploration, and national industrial base. While the job losses are a huge concern to me and many others, the negative impact on our national security and defense capabilities cannot be overlooked. By ending the new state of the art technologies used in both space exploration and national defense, we put our country in a seriously vulnerable situation. Once the programs are canceled, we'll lose the advanced technology essential to many aspects of our national defense. I invite Senator Rockefeller to come to ATK in Utah to explain to thousands of workers who will lose their jobs that, even though this will harm our missile defense and national security capabilities, this is somehow worth their sacrifice. I challenge him to explain to them that the new and innovative technologies they've developed, which have already proven successful, are somehow, as he calls them, just part of NASA's ‘status quo'," said Congressman Bishop. Alliant Techsystems (ATK), the builder of the Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters, is the primary contractor for the Ares rocket. ATK employs over 5,000 Utahns. The uniquely skilled industrial base develops not only solid rocket systems that launch astronauts into space, but also U.S. missile defense systems. Canceling the Ares rocket will destroy vital components of national defense capabilities. Rockefeller: NASA budget not just about jobs May 12, 2010 The Hill Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) on Wednesday stressed that it was short-sighted to gauge the White House's proposed 2011 NASA budget solely in terms of the jobs it creates or destroys. "To many, including myself, defenders of the status quo for NASA -- be they many or be they few -- base their views solely on the job impact," he said. "I don't think we can afford to do that." "NASA's first mission must be to do what's best for the nation," the chairman continued. "The American people deserve the best from their space program and NASA's role cannot stay static." Former Astronauts unhappy with Obama space plan May 12, 2010 Associated Press (AP) Committee Chairman Sen. Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, reminded critics that NASA's current budget of $18 billion may be a high water mark because of budget constraints and "defenders of the status quo for NASA seem to justify their views solely because of the impact of jobs."
05.12.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, voiced his opposition to the Kerry-Lieberman American Power Act. Just last week, the non-partisan and independent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report entitled, "How Policies to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Could Affect Employment," detailing the impact that legislation, such as the House-passed Cap and Tax bill- H.R. 2454 and the Kerry-Lieberman bill, will have on the Economy. "Hidden throughout nearly 1,000 pages of the Senate bill are enormous fees and costs that energy producers will be forced to pass on to their consumers. This legislation, similar to the National Energy Tax passed last year in the House, will make it virtually impossible for energy companies to cut costs and create new jobs. Instead, they will have no choice but to raise prices for consumers who, in many cases, already find their energy bills unaffordable. Simply put, this bill is a time bomb wrapped in a nice bow. Over time, costs will explode through the roof and when it becomes too expensive for the industry to absorb the new fees and taxes created by this legislation, the consumer will be stuck holding the bill," said Bishop. Last week, the Bureau of Labor Statistics also announced that unemployment rose back up to 9.9%."It is unacceptable to expect Americans to foot the bill for bad policies that do nothing more than advance political agendas here in Washington. While some special interests consider this bill a ‘win,' it's unquestionably a loss for all hardworking Americans who end up funding tax and spend bills such as this. Instead of finding new and creative ways to siphon more money from taxpayers and businesses, leaders in Congress and this Administration should be finding ways to create new jobs and keep businesses up and running. I intend to work with my colleagues in the Senate to do everything we can to halt this bill in its tracks," Bishop concluded. Highlights of the CBO report:KILLS JOBS: "While the economy was adjusting to the emission reduction program, a number of people would lose their job, and some of those people would face prolonged hardship."COLLATERAL JOB LOSS: "In addition to industries that produce fossil fuels, a wide variety of other industries would also see lower employment under an emission-reduction policy than in its absence."REDUCES WAGES: "The increases in prices caused by a tax or a cap-and-trade program would cause workers' real (inflation-adjusted) wages to be lower than they would otherwise be."FORCES PRODUCERS TO CUT WAGES AND PASS CO$TS ON TO CONSUMERS: "Average wages would be lower than what would otherwise prevail because the higher cost of energy would reduce the productivity of the economy."INCREASES COSTS OF PRODUCTION: "Imposing a price on emissions of greenhouse gases would increase prices for electricity and reduce the total amount consumed." -30-
05.12.2010	CONTACT: Jed Link, 202-225-3211 Montana's Congressman, Denny Rehberg, today released the following statement in response to the introduction of Cap and Trade legislation in the United States Senate. "Cap and tax isn't a partisan issue. In the House, I joined 212 Members of Congress, including 44 Democrats, in voting against similar legislation. This is an issue that pits the interests of rural states against the power of urban ones. That's why not a single Representative, Republican or Democrat, from Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, North Dakota or South Dakota voted for it. In the House, where members are apportioned by population, urban states like California can force their will on less populated states. Fortunately, in the Senate, rural interests can't be ignored. I hope that the Senate continues to stand firm against any energy tax that's designed to not only increase energy prices but destroy Montana jobs."
05.11.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced the Utah Laboratory of Democracy Act. The legislation closely mirrors the proposal described in Utah Senate President Michael Waddoups and Utah House Speaker David Clark's recent Op-Ed in the Washington Post. It would allow the state of Utah to assume full responsibility for programs in the areas of education, transportation, and Medicaid. "The federal government has inserted itself into every aspect of our lives with one-size-fits-all rules and regulations. The Utah Laboratory of Democracy Act is the first of many proposals I intend to support that will begin to disperse power from Washington back to the people, states and local entities," said Congressman Bishop. The introduction of the Utah legislation came on the heels of Congressman Bishop and other Members of Congress officially launching the 10th Amendment Task Force. The new Task Force, a project of the Republican Study Committee, was formed to educate Congress and the public and promote the principle of federalism and limited government. "This legislation would help realign the proper balance of government by allowing Utah to operate these three programs more efficiently and productively without the federal strings and mandates. Doing this will help ensure that the delivery of government services will be tailored to Utah's unique needs and ensure the programs are more responsive to both the people they're meant to help and the people who pay for them," Bishop added. "The hope is that the ‘modest experiment' proposed by Speaker Clark and Senate President Waddoups will start a serious national discussion about federalism and the proper role of government." The agreements proposed in this legislation would empower Utah to implement innovative, state-specific policies utilizing the state's portion of federal revenues for these programs, minus all federal mandates, regulations, and oversight. Former Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once said, "It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments…"
05.10.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced the Utah Laboratory of Democracy Act. The legislation closely mirrors the proposal described in Utah Senate President Michael Waddoups and Utah House Speaker David Clark's recent Op-Ed in the Washington Post. It would allow the state of Utah to assume full responsibility for programs in the areas of education, transportation, and Medicaid. "The federal government has inserted itself into every aspect of our lives with one-size-fits-all rules and regulations. The Utah Laboratory of Democracy Act is the first of many proposals I intend to support that will begin to disperse power from Washington back to the people, states and local entities," said Congressman Bishop. The introduction of the Utah legislation came on the heels of Congressman Bishop and other Members of Congress officially launching the 10th Amendment Task Force. The new Task Force, a project of the Republican Study Committee, was formed to educate Congress and the public and promote the principle of federalism and limited government. "This legislation would help realign the proper balance of government by allowing Utah to operate these three programs more efficiently and productively without the federal strings and mandates. Doing this will help ensure that the delivery of government services will be tailored to Utah's unique needs and ensure the programs are more responsive to both the people they're meant to help and the people who pay for them," Bishop added. "The hope is that the ‘modest experiment' proposed by Speaker Clark and Senate President Waddoups will start a serious national discussion about federalism and the proper role of government." The agreements proposed in this legislation would empower Utah to implement innovative, state-specific policies utilizing the state's portion of federal revenues for these programs, minus all federal mandates, regulations, and oversight. Former Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once said, "It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments …" -30- a
05.10.2010	Today, Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and nine other Republican Members of Congress officially launched the newly formed 10th Amendment Task Force, a project of the RSC. The Task Force will develop and promote proposals that aim to disperse power, decision-making, and money from Washington back to states, local governments, and individuals. The Task Force was created in response to the public outcry over the concentration of power and the one-size-fits-all solutions from Washington. More than ever, Americans are expressing frustration at having important facets of their lives controlled by a government that is out of reach and out of touch. Among other things, the Task Force will focus on educating Congress and the public about federalism, elevating federalism as a core Republican focus and monitoring threats to 10th Amendment principles. Rep. Tom Price, Chairman of the Republican Study Committee (GA-06): "Our Founding Fathers understood the danger of amassing broad powers in the federal government at the expense of individual liberty. The 10 co-founders and all members of this task force should be commended for taking the initiative to champion the cause of Federalism and its vital role in our Republic." Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Founder of the Task Force: "This is not yesterday's states' rights argument. It's much bigger than that. This is about better governance and breaking up big, inefficient, unresponsive government-returning power back to the people of this country." Rep. John Culberson (TX-07) co-founder: "The Task Force was formed to uphold the principle that the will of the people is best served at the state and local levels, and that the federal government should not interfere in matters that are fully within the purview of the states." Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) co-founder: "We have strayed too far from the principles of our Founders. This Task Force will be key in monitoring the further erosion of powers that traditionally belong to the states and the voices of the American people, not the federal government." Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) co-founder: "Americans are outraged with the federal government's ever increasing intrusion into our lives. This intrusion comes in the form of burdensome regulations, taxes, and unfunded mandates. I reject this one-size-fits-all approach coming from Washington because it doesn't work. I am calling for a return to what the Constitution outlines as a limited role for the federal government and more rights to the states." Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) co-founder: "We in Wyoming value our independent way of life and frontier spirit. We don't take kindly to Washington bureaucrats telling us how to live our lives. We need to limit the power of federal bureaucrats and give it back to states and individuals. That is what our founders envisioned, our Constitution requires and what our constituents want." Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) co-founder: "Supporting the 10th Amendment is not a partisan issue. It is about respecting the boundaries placed on the federal government by the U.S. Constitution. It is my hope that through the Tenth Amendment Task Force, Members on both sides of the aisle will be better educated on our founders' vision for America." Rep. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) co-founder: "The principles they secured in the Constitution should be the guide for every action the government undertakes. Unfortunately, the Federal government has crept into many facets of once locally controlled areas and, in many instances, the Federal judiciary has ignored the intent of federalism. That's why I am happy to join with my fellow members in ushering in this "New Era of Federalism" to alter the government's operation and influence on the daily lives of its citizens." Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) co-founder: "Successful federal government by its very nature should be focused and limited. Washington cannot possibly develop solutions that are the best fit for all 50 states. Each state has its own unique priorities, demographics, economy, strengths and weaknesses. That's why we need to allow states to have more control over policy making and implementation." Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04) co-founder: "The ultimate check upon an abusive or dysfunctional government is the ability of people to walk away from it. By limiting the federal government to those enumerated powers that serve a truly national objective, our constitution disperses the remaining powers among 50 states and a hundred fold more communities. Those states that are governed unwisely naturally lose population and commerce to those that are governed well." Original "10" co-founders of the 10th Amendment Task Force: 1. Rob Bishop (UT-01) 2. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) 3. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) 4. Michael Conaway (TX-11) 5. John Culberson (TX–07) 6. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) 7. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) 8. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) 9. Tom McClintock (CA-04) 10. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) -30-
05.06.2010	Today, Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and nine other Republican Members of Congress officially launched the newly formed 10th Amendment Task Force, a project of the RSC. The Task Force will develop and promote proposals that aim to disperse power, decision-making, and money from Washington back to states, local governments, and individuals. The Task Force was created in response to the public outcry over the concentration of power and the one-size-fits-all solutions from Washington. More than ever, Americans are expressing frustration at having important facets of their lives controlled by a government that is out of reach and out of touch. Among other things, the Task Force will focus on educating Congress and the public about federalism, elevating federalism as a core Republican focus and monitoring threats to 10th Amendment principles.Rep. Tom Price, Chairman of the Republican Study Committee (GA-06): "Our Founding Fathers understood the danger of amassing broad powers in the federal government at the expense of individual liberty. The 10 co-founders and all members of this task force should be commended for taking the initiative to champion the cause of Federalism and its vital role in our Republic."Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Founder of the Task Force: "This is not yesterday's states' rights argument. It's much bigger than that. This is about better governance and breaking up big, inefficient, unresponsive government-returning power back to the people of this country."Rep. John Culberson (TX-07) co-founder: "The Task Force was formed to uphold the principle that the will of the people is best served at the state and local levels, and that the federal government should not interfere in matters that are fully within the purview of the states." Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) co-founder: "We have strayed too far from the principles of our Founders. This Task Force will be key in monitoring the further erosion of powers that traditionally belong to the states and the voices of the American people, not the federal government."Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) co-founder: "Americans are outraged with the federal government's ever increasing intrusion into our lives. This intrusion comes in the form of burdensome regulations, taxes, and unfunded mandates. I reject this one-size-fits-all approach coming from Washington because it doesn't work. I am calling for a return to what the Constitution outlines as a limited role for the federal government and more rights to the states." Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) co-founder: "We in Wyoming value our independent way of life and frontier spirit. We don't take kindly to Washington bureaucrats telling us how to live our lives. We need to limit the power of federal bureaucrats and give it back to states and individuals. That is what our founders envisioned, our Constitution requires and what our constituents want." Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) co-founder: "Supporting the 10th Amendment is not a partisan issue. It is about respecting the boundaries placed on the federal government by the U.S. Constitution. It is my hope that through the Tenth Amendment Task Force, Members on both sides of the aisle will be better educated on our founders' vision for America." Rep. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) co-founder: "The principles they secured in the Constitution should be the guide for every action the government undertakes. Unfortunately, the Federal government has crept into many facets of once locally controlled areas and, in many instances, the Federal judiciary has ignored the intent of federalism. That's why I am happy to join with my fellow members in ushering in this "New Era of Federalism" to alter the government's operation and influence on the daily lives of its citizens."Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) co-founder: "Successful federal government by its very nature should be focused and limited. Washington cannot possibly develop solutions that are the best fit for all 50 states. Each state has its own unique priorities, demographics, economy, strengths and weaknesses. That's why we need to allow states to have more control over policy making and implementation."Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04) co-founder: "The ultimate check upon an abusive or dysfunctional government is the ability of people to walk away from it. By limiting the federal government to those enumerated powers that serve a truly national objective, our constitution disperses the remaining powers among 50 states and a hundred fold more communities. Those states that are governed unwisely naturally lose population and commerce to those that are governed well." Original "10" co-founders of the 10th Amendment Task Force: 1. Rob Bishop (UT-01) 2. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) 3. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) 4. Michael Conaway (TX-11) 5. John Culberson (TX–07) 6. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) 7. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) 8. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) 9. Tom McClintock (CA-04)
05.06.2010	Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) today announced the Administration has turned over only 383 out of 2399 pages of information pertaining to a leaked Department of Interior (DOI) memo. The leaked memo showed the Administration considered locking up as much as 13 million acres throughout the West. The remaining pages of the secret memo that instigated this investigation were not included in the documents turned over to Congress. In February 2010, Congressman Bishop obtained the leaked internal DOI document that outlined 13 million acres in 11 different Western states as potential areas to be designated as national monuments. Under the Antiquities Act, the President may exercise executive privilege to unilaterally designate new national monuments without congressional oversight or input from local officials, stakeholders and residents. On February 26, 2010, Congressman Bishop, House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04) and other Western Caucus Members sent a letter to DOI Secretary Ken Salazar requesting all relative information pertaining to the DOI's plans to designate new national monuments throughout the West. "By refusing to turn over thousands of pages of documents to Congress about this Administration's potential plans to lock up millions of acres of lands, they have destroyed any remaining illusions about being transparent. Secretary Salazar told the people of Utah last week "they have nothing to fear" over the internal memo of potential National Monument designations. The Clinton Administration made similar assurances to the people of Utah. After the designation of the Grand Staircase Escalante, Utahns have at least 1.6 million reasons to be skeptical. The question that needs to be asked is what is this Administration hiding? If the DOI has nothing to hide on this issue, then why not hand over 100% of the documents to once and for all prove to the American people that they are not planning a massive land grab out West. Where there's smoke, there's fire. In baseball terms, the Administration would be batting a lackluster .149. By the more important common sense standard, the American people know that something is fishy when their government attempts to hide information from the public." said Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop. Questions remaining: 1. What are the full extent of the Administration's brainstorming plans? 2. What outside groups are involved? 3. Who instigated these discussions? 4. What is the involvement of the White House? 5. Why not allow the American public to see all the documents?Click here to read the DOI letter to House Natural Resources Ranking Member Doc Hastings (R-WA), Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), and other Western Caucus Members regarding information pertaining to planning within the DOI to designate new national monuments throughout the West. -30-
05.05.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Tom Price (R-GA) and nine other Co-founding Members will officially launch the newly formed 10th Amendment Task Force during an event on Thursday, May 6th. In an effort to answer America's call to fundamentally change Washington, the Task Force will work to disperse power from Washington back to regions, states, local governments and individuals. The Task Force, a project of the RSC, aims to usher in a "New Era of Federalism" and will work to ensure that the principles within the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution serve as a framework for Republicans to fundamentally alter the way government interacts with and touches people on a daily basis. WHO: RSC Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), the "10" founding Members: Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. John Culberson (R-TX), Rep. Scott Garrett (R-NJ), Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX), Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), other guests and Members of Congress.WHAT: Launch of the 10th Amendment Task Force WHERE: House Triangle Media Area, Located on the East Front of the U.S. Capitol DATE: Tomorrow: Thursday, May 6, 2010 TIME: 1:00 p.m. EDTOriginal "10" co-founders of the 10th Amendment Task Force: 1. Rob Bishop (UT-01) 2. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) 3. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) 4. Michael Conaway (TX-11) 5. John Culberson (TX–07) 6. Scott Garrett (NJ-05) 7. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) 8. Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) 9. Tom McClintock (CA-04) 10. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19)
04.21.2010	Members of the Congressional Western Caucus joined in opposition to legislation introduced today by Democratic Congressman James Oberstar (D-MN) that seeks to provide the federal government with jurisdictional authority over all water across the entire United States. The legislation, entitled "America's Commitment to Clean Water Act", seeks to expand the federal government's control of U.S. water under the Clean Water Act by removing the existing requirement that regulated waterways be "navigable." Under the proposed legislation, all inland waters, on both public and private lands, would be controlled and regulated by the federal government. On December 8, 2009, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) along with fellow House and Senate Western Caucus members outlined their concerns in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) regarding the Senate "Clean Water Restoration Act" (S.787) and the anticipated introduction of similar legislation in the House.Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT): "Most Westerners are extremely concerned about the massive accumulation of federal power. In the past year, the federal government has taken control over our banks, cars and healthcare. Now, they are seeking to gain control over every drop of water, from backyard puddles to the arid playas of the West. Look at the federal government's track record on water. The man-made drought in California's Central Valley is the direct result of irresponsible federal water policy. The plight of California's agricultural community is a prime example of why we should seek to limit, not expand, the federal government's control over our nation's waterways."Congressman Paul Broun, M.D. (R-GA): "The liberals' attempt to push the Clean Water Restoration Act amounts to one of the most breathtaking efforts in recent years to exert federal control over the states and property rights of individuals. Under this legislation, the federal government could essentially seize control over a family's private pond or a farmer's retention pond. This would give the federal government unprecedented control over virtually every wet area in the country."Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT): "Water is the life blood for western communities. Take away water and you take away life. The West continues to be in the crosshairs of outsiders. The so-called Clean Water Restoration Act will subject farms, ranches, and backyards to vast federal regulations and mandates. I do not envy the bureaucrat who informs the farmer that the ‘natural pond' in the pasture requires a permit, or the regulator who condemns a swimming hole due to the ‘Migratory Bird Rule'. This is a bad bill and I will work tirelessly to defeat it." Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO): "The sweeping expansion of federal power this bill provides over all of our nation's waterways is deeply troubling. The Clean Water Restoration Act would in effect trump Colorado's state's rights and pre-empt state and local governments from making local decisions. Bureaucrats in Washington have no businesses telling Colorado what to do with its water. This bill is just yet another power grab to expand the federal government and it must be rejected." Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-OK): "This bill represents yet another job-killing intrusion into our state and local communities. The majority of Oklahomans believe we need to be good stewards of our precious water supply and we have ample safeguards on the state and local level. We don't need more intrusion from the federal government. We have seen what happens when the federal government takes control of health care, banks, car companies and student loans. In Oklahoma, water is too precious of a commodity to risk additional intrusion from the federal government." Congressman Doug Lamborn (R-CO): "This bill is a job killer. It is another attempt by the Democrats and President Obama to control more and more aspects of business and private property. This would devastate Colorado businesses, ranchers and agricultural producers by killing jobs, and subjecting landowners to unprecedented regulation of their private property. While we all agree that clean water is essential, this bill goes far beyond that and tramples on the rights of states and individuals. It is another example of Washington trying to impose ineffective, burdensome regulations on our job-creating sector." Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY): "The Clean Water Restoration Act is a serious concern for Wyoming ranchers, farmers, private property owners and local communities. This overreach of government regulation on sitting water only adds to unprecedented expansion of government interference in Wyoming people's everyday lives. Adding another regulation to the already-bloated list of government regulations is not the answer. This sweeping regulation lacks common sense and intrudes on the lives of Wyoming people. I will work to defeat it."Congressman Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "At a time of double-digit unemployment in California, do we really need to be expanding the authority of the Federal government when it comes to our water? Why would we turn over more regulatory control to the Federal government when it cannot take decisive action to mitigate the ongoing man-made drought in our Central Valley? Don't let the name of this bill fool you, additional Federal government power will not produce the needed jobs that our local farmers and ranchers need." Congressman Tom McClintock (R-CA): "At a time when rural America is already under attack from impossibly complicated and costly regulations and aggressive environmental activists, the last thing we need is an expansion of government authority. The Democrat Majority is trying to have it both ways, they claim to be concerned about job loss in our weakened economy at the same time they introduce a bill that will kill jobs and make it more expensive for Americans to do business. This expansion of the Clean Water Act isn't about cleaner water, it's a political giveaway to the environmental left in an attempt to stomp the last bit of life from rural Americans already struggling to survive within the existing regulatory and permitting framework."Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID): "There is no way around it—this is big government asserting that it knows better than states, local governments, and farmers and ranchers how to manage the water supply with which they live and work every day. Giving the federal government jurisdiction over all water in the United States, including waters that are currently regulated by the states, would have a devastating impact on our economy, food supply, and way of life." Congressman Lee Terry (R-NE): "Every American wants to enjoy clean lakes, rivers and streams, but state and local conservation and water districts have done a much better job of protecting our waterways in recent decades. We do not need another federal takeover of our water resources and a new nationwide regulatory scheme under the EPA."
04.16.2010	General Robert Kehler, U.S. Air Force Space Command said just this week that some of his chief concerns [about NASA's Constellation Cancellation which terminates the Ares Rocket] were a "fragile industrial base" and an acquisition process that is far too slow and cumbersome to field new leaps ahead [in] technologies in a timely manner. He added that he is "not comfortable" with the state of the U.S. space enterprise or its ability to maintain America's place as the number one player in space. – Defense News, 4/13/10 Neil Armstrong, Former Astronaut and First Man to Walk on the Moon, broke years of silence to say, "….the accompanying decision to cancel the Constellation program, its Ares I and Ares V rockets, and the Orion spacecraft, is devastating…..It appears that we will have wasted our current $10 –plus billion investment in Constellation and, equally importantly, we will have lost the many years required to recreate the equivalent of what we will have discarded"…– Letter to President Obama, 4/12/10 General Kevin Chilton, Commander U.S. Strategic Command, stated…. "If NASA drops SRMs (solid rocket motors) from its new family of rockets, the capability could disappear…. You have to look to the future…. You can't gap those capabilities." – Air Force Magazine, 1/22/10 Air Force General Les Lyles, (ret.)-Member of Augustine Panel-- "I'm a rocket engineer, a rocket scientist. I'm a big, big believer in the need for rocket technology, so I personally want to see Ares 1 going and the program going as it's currently structured," – Space News, 10/20/09
04.16.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement after meeting with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden today. Bishop, along with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) met with Administrator Bolden to discuss the President Obama's plans to cancel NASA's human space flight program. "I appreciated Administrator Bolden taking the time to hear my concerns regarding the cancellation of the Ares rocket. The President's misguided policies will have far reaching consequences that not only put thousands of Utahns out of a job, but leave our country's missile defense system in a vulnerable and compromising position. "Under the President's plan, our country stands to lose a uniquely skilled industrial base that develops not only solid rocket systems that put astronauts into space, but also our country's missile defense systems. "While we were encouraged by General Bolden's willingness to meet with us, it remains unclear as to whether or not the Administration will reconsider its plans to cede our position as global leaders in space to countries such as Russia, China and India. "I remain concerned that under both Obama's old and new plan, the U.S. will still pay the Russians $55 million per astronaut, per trip as a taxi-service to go to the International Space Station aboard the Soyuz for many years to come. Therefore, millions of tax dollars will be spent each year to help subsidize the Russian Space Program and put thousands of Russians to work. Meanwhile, 30,000 Americans will be out of work during a time of severe economic instability "As I shared with General Bolden, Ares rocket is the most responsible way forward regarding the future of human space travel. Despite what this Administration is saying, dismantling the current Constellation program and renaming an entirely new plan "Constellation" does not mean it is the same thing. To the contrary. "I stressed to General Bolden that it is counterproductive to terminate contracts given to private sector companies that have proven successful and giving them to other private sector companies. This is the purest example of picking winners and losers. "While I appreciated General Bolden's willingness to discuss and hopefully address our concerns, I assured him that I remain steadfast in my efforts to ensure that we maintain the proven and successful Ares rocket as the next generation of human space flight." Alliant Techsystems (ATK), the primary contractor for the Ares rocket, employees nearly 5,000 Utahns across the state. Under President Obama's plan, nearly 2,000 ATK employees in Utah would be negatively affected by the cancellation of the Ares rocket.
04.16.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today decried President Obama's plans to cancel the Ares rocket and NASA's human space flight program, noting that billions of taxpayer dollars will be wasted terminating a highly proven and successful Ares rocket program, with billions more being dumped into unproven start-up efforts that are over five years away from being ready. "The President's speech was heavy on rhetoric but light on details. By shutting the door on one of our country's most valuable space and missile defense programs, we are wasting billions of taxpayer dollars, putting over 30,000 Americans out of work, and destroying an industrial base vital to the safety and security of this country. Furthermore, President Obama has relinquished our position as the global leader in space and missile defense to Russia, China and India. This is not just about space, this decision also negatively impacts our military preparedness as well," said Bishop. Alliant Techsystems (ATK), the builder of the Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters, is the primary contractor for the Ares rocket. ATK employs over 5,000 Utahns and it is anticipated that over 2,000 of those employees will likely be affected by the President's decision. The uniquely skilled industrial base develops not only solid rocket systems that launch astronauts into space, but also U.S. missile defense systems. Canceling the Ares rocket will destroy vital components of national defense capabilities. "President Kennedy opened the door to the new frontier, but Obama has slammed it shut and thrown away the key. We have seen many disappointing things from this Administration, not the least of which is their frivolous waste of taxpayer dollars, but just when you think things cannot possibly get any worse, they surprise you," Bishop added. According to NASA, "the Ares rocket was built on cutting-edge launch technologies, evolved powerful Apollo and space shuttle propulsion elements, and decades of NASA spaceflight experience. It [Ares] is the essential core of a safe, reliable, cost-effective space transportation system -- one that will carry crewed missions back to the moon, on to Mars and out into the solar system." Last fall the Augustine Commission made recommendations to the Administration, which are not now being followed. Obvious problems illustrated in the report have been ignored, such as the impact on the industrial base. "The President's proposal was clearly not thought through and will have obvious unintended consequences that could be avoidable. The Ares I has proven itself already with a highly successful test flight in October 2009. There is no need to waste billions on Obama's new speculative idea when Ares can already do the job," Bishop concluded. "The President's proposal is not about privatization. It is about taking contracts given to the private sector companies that are successful and giving those same contracts to private sector companies that continue to fall short of projections. Washington is again picking winners and losers, but not based on records of success." The Ares rocket was named "The Best Invention of the Year" by TIME Magazine.Click here to read more about Congressman Bishop's fight to save the Ares rocket
04.14.2010	Today, House National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee Ranking Member Rob Bishop (R-UT)was joined by House Natural Resources Ranking Member Doc Hastings (R-WA) and House Homeland Security Ranking Member Peter King (R-NY) in introducing legislation (H.R. 5016) that will prohibit the current practice of the Department of Interior (DOI) of denying the U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) access to federal lands along the U.S./Mexico border. Denying access to agents has significantly jeopardized security along the border. In 2007, an Arizona rancher and his wife wrote a letter to Members of Congress to express concern over the growing criminal activity that was taking place in Wilderness areas along the border. In their letter they wrote, " we are in fear for our lives and safety and health of ourselves and that of our family and friends." That rancher was Rob Krentz. In late March of this year, Krentz, whose family has been ranching in southern Arizona since 1907, was gunned down by a criminal that entered and exited the U.S. through the San Bernardino Wildlife Refuge (located along the Arizona/New Mexico border). Photo: A gate leading into the San Bernardino National Wildlife Refuge contains a lock placed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to prevent access to the lands. Courtesy of the Office of Rep. Rob Bishop. Congressman Bishop, who recently visited the U.S./Mexico border, has been leading efforts to bring greater focus to rampant drug trafficking and criminal activity occurring on federal lands along the border. The legislation he is sponsoring will ensure the USBP has the access and resources necessary to provide the utmost security throughout the entire border region and to close the gaps that exist on federal lands. "After seeing firsthand so many signs of illegal activity on our border, including trails cut into federal border lands and the environmental degradation caused by trafficking trains, I requested that Secretary Salazar take immediate action. Despite his recent visit to Arizona, Salazar has repeatedly ignored requests for his attention on this matter and seems to have blown off concerns regarding national security and safety issues," Bishop added. National security continues to be jeopardized along the border by denying USBP access to federal border lands. DOI cites environmental concerns as the reason for blocking entry into federal land areas, but the lands they seek to protect are already being damaged and overrun by those coming across the border illegally. Due to the USBP's lack of access, unpatrolled federal border lands have become a direct and inaccessible artery into the U.S. for drug smuggling, human trafficking, terrorist, arms trafficking and other criminal activity. "The gravity of the situation must no longer be ignored. This legislation helps ensure that DOI policies no longer enable dangerous criminals to co-opt federal border lands as their drug trafficking highways. What many fail to recognize is that allowing the USBP to apprehend and deter trains of criminal traffickers will not only remedy weaknesses in border security, but also improve the health and vitality of our protected federal lands, which have been severely damaged by years of abuse from drug and human traffickers. National Security and a healthy environment are not mutually exclusive, however with current DOI policies, neither is being accomplished," Bishop concluded.Click here to view a fact sheet on the bill -30-
04.14.2010	Today, Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar is scheduled to visit the Organ Pipe National Monument and tour Arizona's southern U.S. border. Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Ranking Member on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, is requesting that during his tour, Secretary Salazar address the DOI's role in enabling dangerous drug and human traffickers to enter the U.S. with little to no detection solely because federal land managers consistently deny the U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) access to federal lands. Restrictive environmental regulations continue to prevent the USBP from entering federal border lands and maintaining complete operational control of the U.S. border. Subsequently, drug cartels have co-opted the remote, uninhabited land as highways for drug trafficking and human smuggling. The DOI's consistent interference with USBP's ability to monitor and apprehend dangerous criminals continues to be a threat to Americans and national security. "On a recent visit to the southern Arizona border, I toured some of the most prevalent trafficking routes carved into federal lands by drug smugglers and human traffickers and saw firsthand the destruction being done to the land. I remain concerned that our national security is jeopardized on a daily basis solely because of the DOI's restrictive environmental regulations. It is clear that immediate action must be taken, which is why I have requested that Secretary Salazar immediately respond to the four challenges, which will help ensure that the USBP has the access and resources necessary to apprehend and deter dangerous criminals entering illegally into the U.S. through federal lands," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop is requesting the following actions from Secretary Salazar during his visit to Arizona's southern U.S. border: 1.) End the Department of Interior requirement that the Department of Homeland Security [DHS] must petition and negotiate to gain permission for access before entering DOI lands to enforce the law and secure the border. 2.) Acknowledge that DOI policies have contributed to severe environmental damage and destruction by hampering the DHS from fully doing their job and stopping organized criminal, drug and human traffickers and weapons of mass destruction from crossing the border through protected natural areas. 3.) Stop impeding Border Patrol access to public lands, including wilderness areas, for the purpose of siting and building electronic surveillance. 4.) End the DOI practice of extorting "mitigation" funds from the DHS. Money appropriated for border security should only be spent on making our borders more secure, and not diverted to unrelated DOI spending projects. National parks, forests and other federally managed lands have become some of the most dangerous and violent areas along the border. Robberies, rapes, kidnappings and car-jackings frequently occur in nearby suburban areas and along well-traveled highway routes located southern Border States. In some cases, federal land managers have deemed certain areas unsafe for employees to enter due to heightened criminal activity. Phoenix, Arizona has the second highest kidnapping rate in the world, following just behind Mexico City.Click here to view Congressman Bishop's remarks regarding Secretary Salazar's Border tour Click here to view Congressman Bishop's remarks regarding Secretary Salazar's Border tour Click here to view Congressman Bishop's remarks regarding Secretary Salazar's Border tour
03.31.2010	Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) along with fellow Western Caucus members, Congressmen Dean Heller (NV-02) and Lee Terry (NE-02), issued the following responses to President Obama's plan to open a limited fraction of offshore energy resources located in the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)."While the Obama Administration would have you believe it's taking a balanced approach by opening limited access to U.S. waters for offshore energy development, the reality is that today's announcement only opens a fraction of our abundant resources located throughout the deepwater OCS. Let there be no confusion: Today's announcement will not create the jobs we desperately need. Today's announcement will not spur the economic development our citizens deserve. And today's announcement will not put us on the path to energy security. Slow-walking job creation during a time of economic crisis is not smart and taking tepid steps towards economic development and energy security is not balanced," said Congressman Bishop. The 2010-2015 leasing plan proposed by the Bush Administration opened over 500 million acres for job and energy production beginning this July. However, President Obama announced that only a small fraction of these areas will be made available and production will be delayed until 2012. "Our nation needs a long term energy strategy that encourages conservation, develops renewable energy, and allows access to our country's natural resources. High energy prices hurt middle class families due to increased costs of food, clothes, and nearly all consumer goods. Allowing drilling to move forward off the Virginia coast is a step in the right direction. However, creating a new moratorium on oil exploration and locking down our nation's energy resources in other offshore areas will only create greater problems for our nation's already struggling economy," said Congressman Dean Heller (NV-02). "This is a reasonable first step by the President to open up access to more or our Nation's energy resources and to reducing our dependence on foreign oil. However, there are other recoverable sources, especially natural gas within the U.S. continent that should also be freed up for development," said Congressman Lee Terry (NE-02).
03.29.2010	On February 26th, now more than one month ago, Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04) and other Western Caucus members sent Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar a letter requesting the additional missing pages of an internal DOI document that contained detailed information about the Administration's plans to designate as many as 14 new national monuments and lock up as much as 13 million acres in states throughout the West. The February letter requested that the Members be in receipt of the missing documents no later than March 26, 2010. Unfortunately, the deadline has passed and there is still no word from Secretary Salazar."Since the President and his Cabinet have routinely stated that transparency is among the Administration's highest priorities, fulfilling this document request should have been no problem. In fact, the President has gone so far as to call transparency the ‘touchstone' of his presidency. With the DOI's latest failure to complete this document request, I would hardly say Secretary Salazar is living up to the President's standards," said Bishop. "The DOI must be forthcoming with the information we have requested, and if there is nothing to hide as they claim, then why the delay? Sadly, this is what we have come to expect from the DOI, and frankly, the American people deserve better." When asked about the leaked DOI memo, Secretary Salazar stated during a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing that, "There's no hidden agenda on the part of my department." "If there is no hidden agenda then why do these documents, which are public information, remain under lock and key? Unfortunately for Secretary Salazar, this is where the rubber meets the road, and once again, his rhetoric fails to match reality," Bishop concluded. The letter requested the following information be delivered by March 26th: 1. All pages of the "Internal Draft" document of which we obtained only pages numbered 15 to 21. 2. With regard to the "brainstorming," a copy of any documents distributed at or in preparation for the meetings, a list of all participants or invitees, any notes taken at the meeting (s), and any memoranda, work product or follow up documents from the meeting(s). All records, electronic or otherwise, of meetings or discussions with private groups, individuals or other persons or entities that are not employees of the Department of the Interior where potential national monument designations were discussed. All notes, agendas, memoranda or documents from those meetings. 3. All documents related to the Secretary's initiative to compile a list of potential national monument designations since July 1, 2009, including, but not limited to, maps. 4. Any communication with any person or entity outside of the Department of the Interior related to the Secretary's initiative since July 1, 2009.
03.26.2010	In Case You Missed It... Last night on the Floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voiced concerns over statements made by NASA Deputy Administrator Lori Garver, who is apparently the leading voice in the proposal to cancel the Constellation Program, NASA's tested replacement for the retiring Space Shuttle. Click here to view Transcript: Lori Garver is the number two Administrator at NASA who is a political appointee that has been given credit as the prime author of the program to cut the Constellation. In a speech in Maryland a fortnight ago, she said NASA has changed their goals and seemed to indicate that the new goals of NASA will be to end poverty and hunger, create world peace, education, save the environment and in a note of bitter irony, creating new jobs. It would seem that Miss Garver perhaps should look at her door and realize that since 1958 the goal of NASA has been space- to be first in space science, first in space exploration, first in manned flight, and the Constellation program is the program that works with an emphasis on human safety to accomplish this. Miss Garver's plan would cede control of the heavens to the Russians and the Chinese probably for most of our lifetime and has the unintended consequence of hurting education, aerospace, ironically enough- defense and jobs. Mr. Speaker, we can and should do better.
03.23.2010	Following the President's signing of the Democrat takeover of healthcare H.R. 3590, many states including Utah plan to file a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of federally mandated health insurance. In an effort to provide states and the people a greater voice here in Washington, on this issue and many others, Congressman Bishop (Ut-01) along with nine other Members of Congress are forming the 10th Amendment Task Force. The primary focus of the 10th Amendment Task Force is to push for the systemic reform of government by dispersing power from Washington to states, local governments and families. "Passage of this freedom-robbing legislation is further evidence that we must reinforce the principles provided in the 10th Amendment. Our Founding Fathers foresaw this exact type of abuse of power, which is why they added such safeguards as the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Unfortunately, over the years power-hungry federal bureaucrats and lawmakers have chipped away at the Constitution and state sovereignty, allowing rampant federal government intrusion into the lives of all Americans, as seen in the new government control of our personal healthcare. The enactment of this legislation may be a victory for Democrats, but it is a defeat for the liberty of all Americans," said Congressman Bishop.The 10th Amendment Task Force will seek to: Restore federalism as a core governing principle Empower states to resume the power and authority afforded them in the protection of people's God-given right to life, liberty, and property Inform the public about federalist principles and to provide Members of Congress with model legislation and action items
03.21.2010	Tonight, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) cast a "no" vote for the Democrat takeover of healthcare, H.R. 3590. Despite significant bipartisan opposition, Speaker Pelosi wrangled 219 Democrat members to vote in favor of the bill- just enough needed to send the bill to the President's desk for signature. "I am proud to say that I was one of the 212 Members of Congress who opposed the Democrat's freedom-robbing healthcare bill. Poor process produces a poor product and this trillion dollar tragedy is about as bad as they come. From the very start, this bill was on course to be one of the most historic examples of why we must restore a balance of power in Washington. "Over the past year, Democrats consistently turned a deaf ear to the American people and to the numerous alternatives offered by Republicans, proving that it was not about passing the best possible bill, but instead about increasing government intrusion into the lives of all Americans. This abuse of power is exactly what the Founding Fathers sought to prevent when they drafted the Constitution. "The State of Utah has realized the need for true healthcare reform and started a process based on the needs of the state's unique demographics that would have provided viable options for all Utahns. This vote will stop Utah's efforts as well as those of other states working to provide tailored alternatives to this massive one-size-fits-all assault on freedom and choice. The destruction of Utah's creative alternative is the real tragedy. "Today is not the proudest day of this institution and I am committed, more than ever, to work toward getting this country back on track by rebuilding individual liberty and restoring the principles of Federalism on which this country was founded," said Congressman Bishop. Among other things, this legislation will: • add $569.2 billion in tax increases • cut Medicare by $523.5 billion • add $48 billion more for Medicaid • create $17 billion in new taxes on Americans who do not comply with the individual mandate • force $52 billion in new taxes on employers that do not provide health coverage deemed "acceptable" or "affordable" by government bureaucrats -30-
03.19.2010	As the House prepares to take a major vote on health care legislation this weekend, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT01) highlighted the document below, from Congressman Boehner, which outlines ten facts every American should know about the Democrats' final government takeover of health care. "I am opposed to this government takeover of health care and massive intrusion into the lives of every American," Congressman Bishop said. "This bill costs too much and is simply the wrong approach. I support real alternatives for reform which would help reduce cost and provide people with options. The bill which will be before us is a poor product of a poor process, and there are things about it every American should know." The following is an analysis prepared by the Office of the Republican Leader: Ten Facts Every American Should Know About Democrats' Final Government Takeover of Health Care NUMBERS TO KNOW: · $569.2 billion in tax increases· $523.5 billion in Medicare cuts· $48 billion more for Medicaid 1. A Job-Killing Government Takeover of Health Care. No amount of changes or legislative tricks can hide the true destructive nature of this bill: $17 billion in new taxes on Americans who do not comply with the individual mandate, $52 billion in new taxes on employers that do not provide health coverage deemed "acceptable" or "affordable" by government bureaucrats, and new taxes on capital gains, dividends and interest that will further stifle economic growth and job creation.2. New Tax on Capital Formation and Job Creation. The Medicare tax on capital gains, dividends, and other investment income gets bigger, magnifying the destructive power of this new tax. The bill increases the tax from 2.9 percent to 3.8 percent, pushing the top capital gains rate to 23.8 percent and the top rate for dividends to 43.4 percent in conjunction with tax relief expiring at the end of this year. As The Wall Street Journal editorialized this week, this tax will "permanently skew the incentives to work, save and create jobs."3. Democrats Continue to Say ‘I Do' To Marriage Penalty. The bill leaves in place a massive marriage penalty, which will mean higher premiums for those that tie the knot. As highlighted in January by The Wall Street Journal, "the disparity comes about in part because subsidies for purchasing health insurance … are pegged to federal poverty guidelines." The final bill leaves this unfair penalty on married couples in place.4. Lower Wages and More Unemployment. The final bill imposes $52 billion in new taxes on employers, including small businesses, that cannot afford to provide health coverage or that don't offer coverage. The effect of this type of tax, similar to a payroll tax increase, would ultimately fall squarely on workers in the form of lower wages or reduced employment. In fact, the Tax Policy Center concluded that "economists generally believe that the burden of payroll taxes is borne by workers in the form of lower wages, regardless of whether the tax is levied on the employer or the employee." The tax proposed in this bill will likely have the same effect.5. Employers Targeted By Even Higher Taxes to Enforce Employer Mandate. The final bill incorporated President Obama's suggestion to rake in a little more cash to pay for a massive government-takeover of health care by nearly tripling the job-killing mandate tax on employers who do not offer health coverage to $2,000 per employee. Sure enough, the President's suggestion raises an additional $25 billion on the backs of American employers, according to CBO. 6. Individual Mandate Tax Reduced? No, Not Really. Democrats are highlighting their generosity by lowering the amount of the tax for not complying with the mandate. But just how generous are they? Not very. Democrats propose to reduce the individual mandate tax flat payment amount by a scant 14¢ a day. And, while Democrats "reduce" the individual mandate tax flat payment amount, they actually raise $2 billion more by making other alterations to the individual mandate, according to CBO. 7. The Power to Tax Our Health Care. The Democrats' final bill doesn't just tax individuals and employers if they don't comply with the complex mandates in the bill. The bill sends the IRS out to tax the very products Americans use to maintain and restore their own health. New taxes on medical devices, on prescription drugs, and on health insurance itself are all targets of the bill. And, with $10 billion in new enforcement resources, you can bet the IRS will be taking its full share out of the pockets of every American who uses any of these products or services. 8. Even More Subsidies, Even Greater Threat to the Economy. The bill increases the subsidies provided under the bill from those provided in the Senate bill by $65 billion, a significant and unsustainable increase. In fact, the Associated Press reported a warning from Massachusetts' state treasurer, who stated that Congress will "threaten to wipe out the American economy within four years" if it adopts a health care overhaul modeled after the Bay State's. 9. Taxpayer-Funded Abortion Coverage. The final bill does not include the Stupak amendment language that would prohibit federal funds from being used to fund elective abortions. Instead, states are given the option to opt-out of providing insurance coverage of abortions. Still, taxpayers in a state that opts-out would still see their federal tax dollars fund elective abortions in other states. Additionally, each state through the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) can provide access to two multi-state plans, and only one of them will exclude abortions. OPM's current health care program – the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) – does not include any plans that cover elective abortion. For the first time, a federally funded and managed health care plan will cover elective abortions.10. Medicaid Rolls And Waiting Lines to Swell Even More. CBO estimates that as a result of the Democrats' bill, one million more Americans will get their coverage from Medcaid, which is plagued with financial woes and wreaks all kinds of budgetary havoc on cash-strapped states. The Democrats' bill, as the New York Times highlighted, will push even more Americans into a program where they will have trouble finding doctors and have to wait for potentially months to receive care. That's not meaningful reform by any measure. BONUS: Republicans have proposed a health care bill based on common-sense reforms that, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, would reduce premiums for families and small businesses by up to 10 percent. It is not too late to start over.
03.17.2010	Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04) and other Western Caucus Members sent a letter today to Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar requesting all relative information pertaining to an internal DOI document that revealed the Administration is considering as many as 14 new national monument designating in the West. These designations could potentially lock up as many as 13 million acres of land in 11 different Western states. "Western communities and residents that stand to be affected by these proposed monument designations have the right to know what the Administration is planning with regards to the future of millions of acres of both public and private lands throughout the West," said Bishop. "Despite the DOI's statements that the initial documents are simply ‘drafts,' the American people deserve to know the full extent of the planning as well as the involvement of all outside parties. If the DOI is confident that it is operating with the utmost transparency then they should have no problem providing these documents expeditiously. However, given the number of congressional document requests made to DOI this past year that remain unfulfilled, I am not holding my breath." "If this internal document had not been exposed, Americans would still be in the dark about the Obama Administration's potential plans to lock up millions of acres of land across the West," said Hastings. "While Secretary Salazar says that the discussions are just ‘preliminary,' no assurances have been given that the President will not designate these monuments. When you catch someone in the kitchen in the dark of night with their hand in the cookie jar, it's very hard to believe they're just checking to see what's inside and that no cookies were just about to get eaten. The communities and those workers whose jobs could be directly affected by the locking up of these lands deserve to see a full picture of what was happening inside their government. We've asked for copies of documents relating to the planning, which includes coordination with outside groups, and all of the missing pages from the document we uncovered last week." President Obama has routinely stated his goal to have the most transparent Administration in history, calling it the touchstone of his presidency. Therefore, Western Members expect the DOI to answer all of the following requests for information relating to past, present and future planning of potential national monument designations as well as the involvement of all outside groups and individuals. Highlights from the letter: "We request the following information no later than March 26, 2010." 1. All pages of the "Internal Draft" document of which we obtained only pages numbered 15 to 21. 2. With regard to the "brainstorming," a copy of any documents distributed at or in preparation for the meetings, a list of all participants or invitees, any notes taken at the meeting (s), and any memoranda, work product or follow up documents from the meeting(s). All records, electronic or otherwise, of meetings or discussions with private groups, individuals or other persons or entities that are not employees of the Department of the Interior where potential national monument designations were discussed. All notes, agendas, memoranda or documents from those meetings. 3. All documents related to the Secretary's initiative to compile a list of potential national monument designations since July 1, 2009, including, but not limited to, maps. 4. Any communication with any person or entity outside of the Department of the Interior related to the Secretary's initiative since July 1, 2009.Click here to view the list of Members who sent the letter
03.16.2010	CONTACT: Mark Eddington (Hatch), 202-224-5251 Tara DiJulio (Bennett), 202-224-5444 Melissa Subbotin (Bishop), 202-225-0453 Alisia Essig (Chaffetz), 202-225-562 Members of Utah's congressional delegation are urging President Obama to reconsider his decision to kill Project Constellation, NASA's program to develop the Space Shuttle's successor and further explore the cosmos. In a March 15, 2010, letter, Sens. Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett and Reps. Jim Matheson, Rob Bishop and Jason Chaffetz implored the president not to scrub the project, a move that would kill thousands of jobs in Utah and across the U.S. and surrender the nation's lead in space exploration. In sending the letter, Hatch said Utah members of Congress want the president to understand the consequences of scrapping Project Constellation and our nation's manned-space-flight capability. "Our nation's investment in the space program has inspired generations of Utahns and paid huge technological dividends over the past 50 years," Hatch said. "Not only has the space flight program spawned hundreds of new companies, many located in Utah, and thousands of jobs based on the technology such flights demand, but it also played a key role in our nation's defense sector which provides for our national security. It is vitally important we maintain our nation's leadership in technology and defense and not cede our leadership position to China, India or Russia. Such a course will come back to haunt us in the future. Canceling the project now, in a time of high unemployment and after our nation has already invested heavily in the technology, is penny wise and pound foolish." "Eliminating NASA's Constellation and ARES program will put us at a global disadvantage with human space exploration, destroy the industrial base we need to maintain our missile defense capabilities, and cost us thousands of jobs in Utah," said Bennett. "The president's decision to cut these programs is a perfect example of what would happen if Congress gave up its constitutional authority to appropriate federal funding. If President Obama refuses to reinstate Project Constellation, I will work to correct this mistake by securing congressionally directed funds for the program." "There is a direct link between our national defense capabilities and our role as global leaders in space exploration," Bishop said. "Destroy one and we stand to lose our global dominance in the other. Canceling the constellation program would be an irresponsible, irreversible blow to our space and missile defense technologies. The U.S. stands at a crossroads. Move forward with the proven and successful technologies currently under way through the Constellation program, or face handing over our position as global leaders in space and defense technologies to countries such as Russia, China or India. Constellation allows both government and private industries to have a role in space exploration without compromising national defense capabilities, which is why this continues to be the most responsible way forward for our country." "America's national defense strategy is fundamentally interconnected with supremacy in space," Chaffetz said. "Our troops on the battlefields in Afghanistan and Iraq depend on crucial intelligence-gathering and communication capabilities, which in turn rely on a robust space program. Both private industry and government have necessary roles in our space program. However, directing the space program remains a critical federal mission. It is crucial that the United States, through NASA, remains in charge. We must restore Constellation."
03.05.2010	Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced his disappointment over the U.S. Department of Interior Fish and Wildlife Service's announcement today that the Greater Sage Grouse would be categorized as "warranted but precluded" under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). "Today's unnecessary federal designation is one more on a growing list of examples that this Administration places environmental special interests before job creation. Not only is today's announcement a direct attack on the hundreds of western communities that depend on access to federal lands for ranching, livestock, mining and energy production, it also could potentially destroy opportunities for development of our renewable resources," said Congressman Bishop. Sage grouse can be found in 11 states: Wyoming, Nevada, Montana, Colorado, Utah, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, California, North and South Dakota. Concerns remain throughout the West that the warranted but precluded designation will lead to additional restrictions on western lands, which will likely have a devastating impact on all public land users, especially the mining, energy and ranching industries. In a letter sent yesterday to DOI Secretary Ken Salazar from the Congressional Western Caucus, Congressman Rob Bishop stated that, "State wildlife agencies, which are ultimately responsible for wildlife within their respective jurisdictions, have made great strides in the protection of the sage grouse and their habitat in order to keep populations sustainable. For over a decade, state and local governments have been actively working and supporting conservation efforts related to the Greater Sage Grouse." The determination to classify a species as warranted but precluded occurs when the appropriate agency has found that scientifically, a species merits listing as either endangered or threatened under the ESA, but that practically, the listing cannot occur because of other pending proposals to list species. Each warranted but precluded determination must be updated annually to show expeditious progress in listing those species. Two key Sage Grouse habitats, one in Wyoming and the other along the Nevada, Idaho, Oregon border, were deemed high priority for preservation.
03.04.2010	On behalf of the Congressional Western Caucus, Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Caucus, sent a letter to Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar, voicing the united concern shared by Caucus members for the potential listing of the Greater Sage Grouse as an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA). "Placing the Sage Grouse on the endangered species list is unnecessary and flies in the face of the proven progress state wildlife agencies have made in the protection of the Grouse and its habitat throughout the West. Such a listing will have a devastating impact on public land use, and will disproportionately hurt ranchers and energy producers whose livelihood depends upon access to the land," said Congressman Bishop. "It is easy for Secretary Salazar to impose his anti-energy, anti-public lands agenda from his East Coast offices but at some point he'll have to come back West to face the thousands of Westerners who have been affected by his destructive policies." Highlights of the letter:"State wildlife agencies, which are ultimately responsible for wildlife within their respective jurisdictions, have made great strides in the protection of the sage grouse and their habitat in order to keep populations sustainable. For over a decade, states, local governments, tribes, non-governmental entities, industry, and individual citizens, have been actively working and supporting conservation efforts related to the Greater Sage Grouse." "Conservation efforts in the states are robust and are taking place in California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Washington, Wyoming, and Utah. Many of the local working groups in these states include members of FWS staff." "Our concern is based on a number of FWS's actions that have been taken since the remand. Of particular note is that the FWS is no longer relying on the work of the Western Association of Wildlife Agencies (WAFWA) for the Conservation Status review. Instead, the existing settlement agreement governing the Greater Sage Grouse decision directs involvement from the Cooper Ornithological Society, despite the fact that all the data on Greater Sage Grouse is collected by the states." Western Caucus Members voice concern over Sage Grouse ESA listing: "The implications of this decision on the West cannot be overstated. Idaho has taken its responsibility to protect the state's sage grouse population seriously, bringing stakeholders from all sides of the issue together to do the hard work of real conservation," said Congressman Mike Simpson (ID-02). "I am concerned that a final listing decision will undo all this good work, leaving people divided on the issue instead of united in an effort to find the right solution to this problem.""Locally elected officials, conservation groups, our state's wildlife agency, private landowners, and public land users have worked diligently to conserve and protect adequate habitat in Wyoming for the sage grouse," said Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large). "This has required tough decisions and significant reductions in the historic multiple-use management of our lands. The fact that these organized and grassroots efforts have not been recognized by this Administration shows how truly disconnected it is from the west. An ESA listing for the sage grouse would devastate Wyoming and western economies - it is high time the Administration took notice of these local impacts when making endangered species determinations." "Listing the sage grouse as an endangered species could have dramatic impacts across the West. Nevada has dedicated countless hours to the protection of the sage grouse and has made progress towards healthier sage grouse populations. A decision of this magnitude could have severe impacts on access to public lands, mining operations, ranching, and energy development throughout the western states. Maintaining the productive partnerships and furthering the current conservation efforts is not only in the best interest of species protection, but the states and local communities that will be affected by a possible listing," said Congressman Dean Heller (NV-02). "The only good place for a Sage Grouse to be listed is on the menu of a French bistro. It does not deserve federal protection, period," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03). "The continued egregious misuse of the Endangered Species Act for the purpose of politics and fundraising is shameful. Responsible exploration and development of our resources is the key to the economic future of this country. However, by continuously making listings based on opinions and not science, this Administration is killing any chance the United States has of regaining its position as a world leader," said Congressman Don Young (AK-At Large) "One third of Oregon's massive Second District is covered by sage grouse habitat. As an advocate for multiple use of our federal lands, I am very concerned that listing the sage grouse will further cripple the already fragile economies in the rural West, especially those in southeastern Oregon. Successful and extensive conservation efforts are already in place on the federal and state level, and adding unnecessary additional layers of bureaucracy at a time when we are trying to create jobs and recover from one of the worst economic times doesn't seem very smart to me. A listing would no doubt lock-up public land across the West and put an end to the many essential and productive uses of our public lands including ranching, energy development and recreation," said Congressman Greg Walden (OR-02). "Much like the recently leaked Department of the Interior document that revealed potential plans to place huge swaths of land under federal jurisdiction without consulting the states and communities affected, placing the Greater Sage Grouse on the endangered species list would be yet another instance of this Administration running roughshod over local entities, based on their belief that more federal government is the answer to every perceived problem. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the endangered classification is likely not even necessary, given the robust conservation efforts that have already been put in place in nearly every Western state. Through this decision, the Administration would not only be undermining state and local governments' authority and harming local economies, it would be doing so in an attempt to address a problem that has already been addressed," said Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-02).
03.04.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) questioned NASA Administrator Charles Bolden during the House Science and Technology Committee hearing on NASA's Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Request and Issues. During his questioning, Congressman Bishop revealed, among other things, that NASA was unprepared to answer questions about the costs associated with canceling the Constellation program, which are currently estimated at $2.5 billion. The questions and answers also reiterated the lack of coordination between NASA and the Department of Defense regarding the impact of the cancelation on the country's missile defense capabilities. Bishop: Thank you Mr. Chairman, I appreciate you welcoming me back to this committee. I realize that I am only here temporarily since my nameplate is put together with scotch tape. General, everyone who has been here so far has thanked you for coming and I would like to thank you too. But to be very honest, and very bold, if you and Ms. Garver (Deputy Administrator) had made better decisions we wouldn't be here talking about this. Both of us would be much happier in that situation. There are some specific questions I would like to ask and I will try to be as brief as I can….It was brought out by Mrs. Giffords…with the minuteman ground base missile decisions that were made last year as well as the canceling of constellation, it's left the industrial base in shambles. Now we obviously know that (Defense) Secretary Gates was not consulted with this, (Air Force) Secretary Donley was not, AFMC was not as well and obviously if you talked with acquisitions you obviously didn't listen to what they said. So, sir, did you consult with the Department of Defense on the impact of the industrial base before you made this catastrophic announcement [to end the Constellation program] Bolden: let me be very careful about how I answer your question. I did not have detailed discussions with anyone in… Bishop: Did anyone in your office have discussions with them. Bolden: I have had informal conversations with senior persons in DOD from the time that I came into office because I wanted to reach out across agencies in the government. So I have talked with members of DOD, while not talking specifically about the impact of cancellation of the Constellation program, I asked for information on the impact to the industrial base particularly with reference to solid rockets. Bishop: Good, with whom did you speak? Bolden: Sir, I…um, I have…If you ask General Cartwright if I've spoken to him, he will tell you yes, I've spoken to him. But those were not formal meetings and they were not formal deliberations. Bishop: Anyone else though we could…Anyone else with whom you had consultations? Bolden: Sir, those are, um I can go through…I will provide you the information for the record. I will get it to you. Bishop: Your comptroller wouldn't do that so I would appreciate if you would do that right now. The Department of …Are you aware of the Department of Defense report to Congress on the solid rocket motor industrial base issues… Bolden: I am not aware of that report. I am aware of a report that Dr. Holdren prepared, I read it… Bishop: Not that one, go back to the original one from Acquisitions. I would appreciate it if you would look especially on page 47 where it says if there is a delay in Constellation it has a significant negative impact on the defense side of this equation. Cancelling it…has to be a very significant negative impact at the same time. …We talked to Secretary Donley yesterday… are you currently having discussions with Secretary Donley on this issue? Bolden: I am not…I am not having discussions with anyone right now. There are discussions on the Space Policy Review that is underway and persons in my organization are participating in those meetings. Bishop: ….When the contract currently with the Russians is up and they have a monopoly on space flight, which will take place for quite some time- do you have any anticipation or could you give me any kind of guess of what they will charge us to provide that service for us? Do you have any clue of what that will be? Bolden: Sir, we are in negotiations with the Russians right now so I would prefer not to, in fact I won't discuss cost or any progress on that… Bishop: Do you have then an estimate on cancellation costs, your budget puts it at around $2.5 billion dollars. Bolden: We are evaluating right now what the potential cancellation costs are and we can get that to you for the records. Bishop: Thank you…. you really don't have a handle on what that cancellation cost would be. I hate to admit this, to me it's somewhat of a backwards approach. It would be nice for a Congressman or somebody who is making policy decisions if we knew what the costs would be before you actually make that decision and jump to the next particular level. Look, I've only got about 40 seconds with you and I apologize for that. There are some other questions. There was a Space News article that came out which seemed to contradict the letter that you sent to us. I hope, for the record at some time, you will clarify whether Space News was wrong in its implications on whether you are actually closing down programs of record or whether your letter was wrong to us. But I have to say just one last thing…when you said you were building a bold new path for the future and you are coming up with what was it? – programs..summers of inspiration for kids to encourage them…in all due respect, when you have a President and you who said you want to encourage kids to become involved in science, math and engineering- or STEMs Programs. I have to really admit to you that the summers of inspiration is not going to fool a kid in college, or in high school or in junior high right now who looks at 20,000 to 30,000 private-sector jobs who are involved in science, math and engineering being given a pink slip. [This] is not going to encourage anyone else to become involved in this area or any other area. This is a negative impact; a negative message and there is certainly no inspiration with this. This is not a program for a bold new path, it's more like managing America's decline. I am very much disappointed in the approach that NASA has taken on this particular effort.click here to view video of the hearing
03.04.2010	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) praised NASA Administrator Charles Bolden for reconsidering the President's current proposal to cancel the Constellation program and Ares rocket. Cancellation of the NASA programs would significantly harm future national defense capabilities, placing the U.S. behind other countries with ongoing, robust space and defense programs. According to a story published today by the Wall Street Journal, "An internal NASA memo obtained by the Wall Street Journal states that Administrator Bolden ordered officials to map out ‘what a potential compromise might look like' to satisfy critics on Capitol Hill." "NASA Chief Charles Bolden has asked senior managers to draw up an alternate plan for the space agency after members of Congress indicated they wanted to reject a White House proposal to hire private companies to ferry U.S. astronauts into orbit and beyond." Click here to view the entire story. "Today's news could be a significant step in the right direction for national defense and for all those, in Utah and elsewhere, currently involved in the Constellation program and Ares rockets. I'd like to see this other plan in detail, but I appreciate that the Administrator is at least reconsidering the President's current proposal, which would have an impact on our industrial base of historic proportions and put us light years behind other countries in space and national defense technologies. In the end, turning back the entire proposal is the best option and the one I think Congress will and should still pursue," said Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop and other Members of Congress who oppose the President's proposal to cancel the Constellation program are scheduled to meet with Administrator Bolden later this month. In addition to the impact that it will have on defense capabilities, the cancellation of the Constellation program and Ares rockets will result in the loss of more than 2,000 jobs in Utah and approximately 30,000 more jobs throughout the country. Click here to view Congressman Bishop's questioning of Administrator Bolden during a hearing last week.To read more about Congressman Bishop's fight to save the Constellation program click here-30-
03.03.2010	Contact: Jed Link- 202-225-3211 Montana's Congressman, Denny Rehberg, joined fellow members of the House Western Caucus in sending a letter demanding answers from Interior Secretary Ken Salazar regarding efforts to designate 2.5 million acres of land in Montana – some owned by private citizens – as a newly created National Monument. The plan was leaked from an internal Department of Interior memo, which lays out plans to federalize potentially millions of acres of private lands in Montana. The memo also calls for the buy-out of 80,000 acres of private inholdings within the Missouri Breaks National Monument and the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge, in addition to the acquisition of 39,000 acres of state-administered inholdings in the same area. "This naked abuse of power is not only a misuse of the Antiquities Act, but an egregious affront to the will of Montanans," said Rehberg, a member of the House Western Caucus. "The White House is considering a land-grab of more than three times the acreage with absolutely no regard for the interests or views of the people in Montana. No wonder folks that I've heard from are fed up with how things work in Washington." The Antiquities Act authorized the President to designate objects or areas of historic or scientific interest as National Monuments on lands owned or controlled by the United States. An internal Department of Interior document recently revealed the Administration is considering using this law to create as many as 14 new National Monument designations in the West. These designations could lock up as many as 13 million acres of land in 11 different Western states, including Montana. Rehberg has been a vocal opponent of a similar effort to lock up millions of acres through the Northern Rockies Ecosystem Protection Act. That effort, at least, requires a vote by Congress which gives the impacted people an opportunity to be heard. Rehberg has testified multiple times on behalf of more than 10,000 Montanans who contacted his office in opposition to this bill. "When it comes to unilateral federal land grabs, Montanans don't mince words. They want bureaucrats to keep their hands off our state," said Rehberg, citing a Facebook group he launched that has more than 3,000 members, "For the Montanans who work, till, graze, hunt, fish, hike, camp and enjoy this land, conservation is not only a daily personal choice; it's our way of life. Real conservation isn't about making tough decisions for someone else who lives thousands of miles away, yet that's exactly what the White House is trying to do." The letter is below: Dear Secretary Salazar: We were distressed to learn from an internal "NOT FOR RELEASE" document that deliberations regarding potential National Monument designation sites and "high priority land-rationalization efforts" were taking place within the Department of Interior without public knowledge or participation. We do, however, take a degree of comfort in your subsequent statement that you hope for a more open process in which locally affected people and their Representatives are engaged in a "public dialogue" rather than being recipients of surprise announcements. While not an explicit assurance that the unilateral actions outlined in the document will not be carried out, we do hope the statement does mean that an open, transparent process involving the public will occur prior to any action by the Department or the President. Left unanswered at this point are many questions about the status of potential National Monument designations, what groups and individuals are or were involved in this endeavor, and the extent to which the process will continue to be carried out behind closed doors. Therefore, we request the following information no later than March 26, 2010. 1. All pages of the "Internal Draft" document of which we obtained only pages 15 to 21. 2. With regard to the "brainstorming" sessions you publicly mentioned, we would like a copy of any documents distributed at or in preparation for the meetings, a list of all participants or invitees, any notes taken at the meeting (s), and any memoranda, work product or follow up documents from the meeting(s). All records, electronic or otherwise, of meetings or discussions with private groups, individuals or other persons or entities that are not employees of the Department of the Interior where potential National Monument designations were discussed. We request all notes, agendas, memoranda or documents from those meetings. 3. All documents related to the Secretary's initiative to compile a list of potential National Monument designations since July 1, 2009, including, but not limited to, maps. 4. Any communication with any person or entity outside of the Department of the Interior related to the Secretary's initiative since July 1, 2009. We thank you for your prompt response to our previous letter and look forward to an equally prompt and fully informative reply to this letter. Sincerely,
03.03.2010	CONTACT: Catherine Mortensen (Lamborn): 202.225.4422 Nat Sillin(Coffman): 202.225.7882 Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05) is introducing legislation, H.R. 4716 , with Congressman Mike Coffman (CO-06) that would safeguard Colorado from arbitrary presidential monument designations and ensure that all future national monument designations only occur through an open and transparent process that includes input from local officials, residents, and stakeholders. A recent Department of Interior (DOI) document (linked here) lists as many as 14 possible areas being considered for designation as national monuments by the President, one of which is located in northwest Colorado—the Vermillion Basin. Collectively, the areas listed in the document could encompass 13 million acres of federally owned land. Additionally, the document identifies millions of additional acres being considered for new federal land acquisition – including the Alpine Triangle near Gunnison, Colorado. "Colorado has a rich supply of natural energy that if used responsibly can provide high paying jobs and reduce energy costs. But this Administration just doesn't get it. It seems President Obama and Secretary Salazar would rather lock up our valuable Western resources than help lower energy costs and create jobs. At the very least, they owe it to the people of Colorado to discuss their agenda in an open manner." Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO -05) "This legislation will help ensure that any decision to further restrict access to valuable natural resources is done so with the full input and knowledge of the people of Colorado. Congressman Lamborn and I call on the entire Colorado delegation to support this bill. It will ensure that the people of Colorado have a voice in what happens in our state." – Congressman Mike Coffman (CO-06) The 1906 Antiquities Act allows a president to circumvent Congress to authorize certain areas for restrictive designation in special circumstances, but the process has been abused in the past. Former President Bill Clinton used this executive power in 1996 to designate the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah without ever consulting the public or state, local and federal officials. In 1950, Congress passed a law that prohibited the future establishment of national monuments in Wyoming except as authorized by Congress. H.R.4716 is modeled after this legislation but inserts Colorado in the place of Wyoming. Over the last forty years, the federal government has spent nearly $13 billion adding hundreds of thousands of acres to the federal estate. In fact, an area larger than the size of Florida has been added to federal lands since John F. Kennedy was president.
03.02.2010	CONTACT: Jennifer Ellis: 208-206-7309Click hear to view the full release The Western Legacy Alliance wholeheartedly offers its full support to H.R. 4717, the Open EAJA Act of 2010 which will begin the process of uncovering how deep-pocketed environmental groups and their army of lawyers have abused the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) receiving millions in taxpayer dollars to advance their agenda. This bipartisan effort co-authored by Representatives Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) and Rob Bishop (R-UT) will open the government's books and finally shed some light on these abuses. The Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) was never intended to be used as a funding source for any political cause or as a backdoor to advancing an agenda. Almost 30 years ago, with the best of intentions Congress passed the EAJA. Simply stated EAJA said that if the government had done wrong against small businesses, including farms and ranches, and they challenged the government in federal court, they would not have to go bankrupt awash in legal fees protecting their rights. If they were victorious in court, the government would have to pay their legal fees. It leveled the playing field so that Citizen David could stand up and defend himself against Big Government Goliath. EAJA abuse is just the tip of the iceberg as these radical environmental groups have tapped other sources of taxpayer dollars that were never meant for that purpose to fund their agenda. As Congress begins the process of following the money trail of EAJA abuse, we urge them to continue uncovering other ways that the taxpayer's hard earned dollars are being used to advance a particular political agenda and support the ever growing cottage industry of environmental lawyers and the special interests that profit from this abuse. With soaring deficits, Congress needs to ensure that every taxpayer dollar is spent wisely. H.R.4717 should be the first of many steps in that direction. Representatives Lummis, Herseth Sandlin and Bishop should be commended for their groundbreaking efforts and we urge all Members of Congress to sign on as co-sponsors to this important legislation. About the Western Legacy Alliance: Western Legacy Alliance strives to preserve the working landscapes and lifestyles of the American West. We do this by supporting and promoting sustainable land-use solutions and common sense conservation methods to ensure social and economic benefits for local communities and the nation. For more information or to join the WLA visit our website www.westernlegacyalliance.org or call (208) 206-7309. Join us On Facebook! You can become a fan of the Western Legacy Alliance on Facebook. When you visit our website click on the Facebook link on our homepage and saddle up! If you are new to Facebook use the instructional link below and follow the steps to learn how. http://www.youtube.com/user/IDFarmBureau#p/a/u/0/my_HwITuWNs
03.02.2010	A bipartisan trio of western members of Congress, U.S. Representatives Cynthia Lummis, R-Wyo., Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, D-S.D., and Rob Bishop, R-Utah, have teamed up to introduce the "Open EAJA Act of 2010." The bill seeks to reinstate critical oversight and transparency measures for payments made to organizations through the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA). In 1980, EAJA was passed by Congress to help individuals, small businesses and non-profits with limited means seek judicial redress against the federal government. It allows plaintiffs who sue the federal government to recover their attorney's fees and costs if they prevail in the case or even settle out of court through the use of taxpayer dollars. Two recent studies have shown that despite congressional intent to assist small organizations, some large environmental groups appear to be the major beneficiaries of EAJA payments. "It's time to shine some light on the high-jacking of the equal justice law by some groups and the environmental litigation industry that supports their ‘stop everything' agenda," Rep. Lummis said. "The Open EAJA Act will help restore taxpayer trust in the system by bringing the Equal Access to Justice Act out of the shadows and into the bright light of transparency. I call on everyone who uses and cares for our public lands to support this bill, including the beneficiaries of EAJA payments." "Simply put, this legislation is about ensuring good and open government," Rep. Herseth Sandlin said. "Unfortunately, government tracking of payments under the Equal Access to Justice Act stopped in 1995 and the program has been operating without any oversight for over 15 years. We must restore transparency and oversight over EAJA payments so that we know where and how our taxpayer dollars are being spent while ensuring that the original intent of EAJA is not being abused." "For too long, taxpayers have unwittingly served as the financiers of the environmental litigation industry. Without improved oversight, EAJA will continue to be abused by organizations that have made a cottage industry out of suing the federal government in an effort to advance their radical political agendas," Rep. Bishop said. "The Open EAJA Act will lift the veil off this bottomless bank account and bring greater oversight and transparency to the equal justice law." According to research by a Wyoming law firm, 14 environmental groups have brought over 1200 federal cases in 19 states and the District of Columbia, and have collected over $37 million in taxpayer dollars through EAJA or other similar laws. Those numbers do not include settlements, and fees sealed from public view. An independent study from Virginia Tech University discovered similar findings as a result of a comprehensive Freedom of Information Act request of five Federal agencies. The Virginia Tech study also revealed that two of these agencies could provide absolutely no data on EAJA payments. Dr. Michael Mortimer, who directed the Virginia Tech study said, "What the ‘Open EAJA Act of 2010' does is nothing more than require that agencies paying court-awarded legal fees, costs, or lawsuit settlements under the provisions of the EAJA to track, record, and provide that financial information to Congress and the public in an easily accessible fashion. This bill provides for the much-needed transparency and clarity that should form the foundation of any federal policy – particularly one where taxpayer dollars are being spent to sue our own government." The bill, H.R. 4717, would reinstate and consolidate tracking and reporting requirements under the Department of Justice (DoJ), and would require the DoJ to publish an online, searchable database of EAJA payments that is open to the public. It would also authorize an audit of the last 15 years when EAJA operated with absolutely no oversight. The bill is supported by several groups representing businesses and individuals who depend on the nation's public lands for their livelihood and enjoyment including the Western Legacy Alliance, National Cattlemen's Beef Association, National Farmers Union, the Society of American Foresters, and the Family Farm Alliance. It is also endorsed by one of the nation's largest conservation organizations, the National Association of Conservation Districts (NACD). In its letter of endorsement, NACD President, Steve Robinson wrote, "There is a lack of accountability and transparency in the administration and distribution of EAJA payments. NACD fears that this lack of oversight leads to abuse of the EAJA and results in fewer resources available for on-the-ground natural resource improvements." # # # #
03.02.2010	Today, Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large) and Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) teamed up to introduce the "Open EAJA Act of 2010." The legislation [H.R. 4717] seeks to provide increased transparency within the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) by tracking millions of federal taxpayer dollars used to fund costly environmental litigation. EAJA was established in 1980 with the intent to help individuals and groups with limited means seek judicial redress from the federal government. A citizen, small business or special interest group that prevails in litigation brought against the federal government may recover fees and expenses. For nearly 15 years, the lack of accountability and transparency has made way for rampant abuse of EAJA, reaching far beyond its original intent. "For too long, taxpayers have unwittingly served as the financiers of the environmental litigation industry. Without improved oversight, EAJA will continue to be abused by organizations that have made a cottage industry out of suing the federal government in an effort to advance their radical political agendas," said Congressman Bishop. "The Open EAJA Act will lift the veil off this bottomless bank account and bring greater oversight and transparency to the equal justice law." Research conducted by a Wyoming law firm revealed that over the past 15 years, 14 environmental groups have brought over 1,500 federal cases in 17 states and the District of Columbia, and have collected over $37 million in taxpayer dollars through EAJA or other similar laws. "It's time to shine some light on the high-jacking of the equal justice law by some groups and the environmental litigation industry that supports their ‘stop everything' agenda," Congresswoman Lummis said. "The Open EAJA Act will help restore taxpayer trust in the system by bringing the Equal Access to Justice Act out of the shadows and into the bright light of transparency. I call on everyone who uses and cares for our public lands to support this bill, including the beneficiaries of EAJA payments." Specifically, H.R. 4717 would reinstate and consolidate tracking and reporting requirements of EAJA payments under the Department of Justice (DoJ), and: • Require the DoJ to issue an annual, online report to Congress regarding the amount of fees and other expenses awarded during the preceding fiscal year • Ensure that the report provided to Congress be made available to the public online and include:the name of the party seeking the award of fees the agency to which the application for the award is made the name of the administrative judges involved in the case the hourly fees of all attorneys and expert witnesses • Request that the Comptroller General commence an audit of past actions taken under the Equal Access to Justice Act. Once complete, the audit must be reported to Congress. The "Open EAJA Act of 2010" has garnered support from several public land use organizations such as the Western Legacy Alliance (WLA), National Cattlemen's Beef Association (NCBA), National Farmers Union, the Society of American Foresters and the Family Farm Alliance. It is also endorsed by one of the nation's largest conservation organizations, the National Association of Conservation Districts (NACD). On Friday, February 19, 2010 White House Chief Technology Officer Andrew McLaughlin said Republicans and conservative Tea Party activists should strive to push the administration to make its policies more open. President Obama himself has called transparency the "touchstone of his presidency." On November 3, 2009, Western Caucus Members issued a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting input on bringing transparency to EAJA. DOJ has not responded to the request.-30-
02.25.2010	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce sent President Obama's Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel a letter addressing the Administration's consideration of 14 new national monument designations. A document recently obtained by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, proves the Department of Interior (DOI) is considering creating as many as 14 new national monuments by taking advantage of a provision within the Antiquities Act to unilaterally designate monuments without Congressional approval or input from local communities. "I am grateful that the Chamber of Commerce is helping to ensure that all future national monument designations are done in an open and transparent manner," said Congressman Bishop. "Western states have already suffered this past year from the Administration's anti-energy land-hungry policies, which have locked up sweeping swaths of land and put thousands out of work. The fact that they would even consider making these designations without public input is disingenuous at best."Excerpts of the letter: "The [Antiquities] Act has routinely been used to lock up large tracts of land without any public comment, input from state and local elected officials, or Congressional review. Former President Clinton used the Act 22 times to designate nearly 5.9 million acres of federal land as national monuments." "The Chamber recognizes the need to preserve America's unique heritage through the designation of historical national monuments. The federal government can still protect national resources, however, while ensuring that issues like domestic energy production, pipelines and transmission corridors, job creation, and public access to federal lands are fully considered, prior to making any proclamations pursuant to the Act, by opening up the designation process to robust public input."Click here to read the full letter Congressman Bishop along with fellow delegation and Western Caucus member Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) introduced legislation, H.R. 4651, this week that would safeguard Utah from arbitrary presidential monument designations and ensure that all future national monument designations only occur through an open and transparent process that includes input from local officials, residents and stakeholders. "The Chamber strongly believes that enhanced transparency, stakeholder input, and Congressional approval would vastly improve the process through which national monuments are designated and forestall abuse of the American Antiquities Act," said William Kovacs, Chamber Senior Vice President of Environment, Technology & Regulatory Affairs. "The Chamber encourages Congress to modify the Act to incorporate these important principles."
02.24.2010	v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Contact: Bethany Haley or Ben Carnes at 202-225-4576 Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-02) today released the following statement regarding a recently-publicized internal document from the Department of the Interior that lists fourteen areas in the Western United States, including a site in Arizona, that could potentially be designated as national monuments: "As recently as the Clinton Administration, we have witnessed what can happen when the 1906 Antiquities Act is abused. In 1996, President Clinton used the act to bypass Congress and designate a huge tract of land in Utah as a national monument, thereby putting the land under federal purview and essentially wresting control of the land from the state. He did all of this without consulting any of the citizens, localities, or leaders in the affected regions. "The revelation that the Department of the Interior is circulating memos regarding the possibility of taking over yet more state land, potentially including a huge region of Arizona, raises red flags that the Obama Administration might be looking to follow in the footsteps of the Clinton Administration by completely bypassing the legislative process and seizing control of state lands without so much as seeking feedback from the locals affected by the decision." Congressman Franks is serving his fourth term in the U.S. House of Representatives, and is a member of the Committee on Armed Services, Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, Military Readiness Subcommittee, Committee on the Judiciary, Constitution Subcommittee, and is Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law.
02.24.2010	In August of 2008, then-Senator and Presidential candidate Barack Obama criticized the Bush Administration for inadequate support of NASA during a campaign rally with NASA workers. "He played to the audience, but when it came time as President to make the right decision, Obama let the American people down. Cancelling the Constellation program and Ares Rocket will negatively impact 30,000 high-tech jobs within the U.S. space and national defense industries," said Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT). "Gutting our own space program would be a gift to Russia and China - the chance for them to assume the helm as the world leaders in space exploration. I don't think this is the kind of tragic legacy for which this Administration, or any other, will want to be known." Excerpts from Obama's August 2, 2008 speech in Titusville, Fl: "Today we have an Administration that sets ambitious goals for NASA, without giving NASA the support it needs to reach them. As a result, NASA's had to cut-back on research, trim their program, which means that after the Space Shuttle shuts down in 2010, we're going to have to rely on Russian spacecrafts to keep us in orbit." "You know, one of the areas where we're in danger of losing our competitive edge is science, technology, and nothing symbolizes that more than our Space Program… Let me be clear. We cannot cede our leadership in space. That's why I'm going to close the gap, ensure that our Space Program doesn't suffer when the space shuttle goes out of service. We may extend an additional shuttle launch…. We're going to continue to support NASA funding by speeding the development of the Shuttle's successor…. [Note: Constellation at the time was the NASA program of record to follow the Shuttle]…More broadly, we need a real vision for the next stage of space exploration… This is what America is all about. We can do anything when we put our mind to it…." Click here to listen to the President's remarks -30-
02.23.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Western Caucus Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, today introduced legislation that would safeguard Utah from arbitrary presidential monument designations and ensure that all future national monument designations only occur through an open and transparent process that includes input from local officials, residents and stakeholders. Senators Bob Bennett (R-UT) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced companion legislation yesterday. A Department of Interior (DOI) document recently obtained by Congressman Bishop lists as many as 14 possible areas being considered for designation as national monuments by the President, two of which are located in Utah. Collectively, the areas listed in the document could encompass 13 million acres of federally owned land. Additionally, the document identifies millions of additional acres for new federal land acquisition. "I'm tired of this Administration targeting our lands in Utah and trying to control more of our state. There is a right way to make land designations and there is a wrong way. Arbitrarily locking up huge swaths of our state with the stroke of a pen, absent any input from local communities, is clearly the wrong way," said Congressman Bishop. The 1906 Antiquities Act allows a president to circumvent Congress to authorize certain areas for restrictive designation in special circumstances, but the process has been abused in the past. Former President Bill Clinton used this executive power in 1996 to designate the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah without ever consulting the public or state, local and federal officials. "The legislation I am introducing today will help ensure that such a decision, which would impact many in my state, does not occur behind closed doors with no opportunity for community input. If Secretary Salazar wants to keep his promise to work with our state, he can guarantee that process takes place by first supporting this legislation," Bishop added. In 1950, Congress passed a law that prohibited the future establishment of national monuments in Wyoming except as authorized by Congress. Congressman Bishop along with Congressman Chaffetz and Senators Bennett and Hatch seek to provide Utah with the same level of protection. "This legislation will increase transparency and ensure that Utahns have a say in determining how federal lands are managed in our state. While I appreciate the Secretary of the Interior's assurances, I feel it is critical, given past history, that we protect Utahns from a repeat of the process that took place with the designation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Utahns are fully capable of coming together to craft solutions to challenging public land issues, without heavy handed outside intervention," said Senator Bennett. Over the last forty years, the federal government has spent nearly $13 billion adding hundreds of thousands of acres to the federal estate. In fact, an area larger than the size of Florida has been added to the federal estate since John F. Kennedy was president. "With the egregious abuse of the Antiquities Act by the Clinton Administration still fresh in the memories of most Utahns, it is imperative that Congress exempt Utah from this deleterious act," said Rep. Jason Chaffetz, the original co-sponsor of the legislation. "The Antiquities Act lends itself to abuse and making off-limits large swaths of federal land, without local input, and always in secret. This is not acceptable for any administration, regardless of political party. In order to preserve the role of local, state, and congressional input in the management of our public lands, Utah must be exempt from the potential harm of such an executive power grab." The total amount of federal land potentially targeted in the DOI document could be more than the states of Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware and Rhode Island combined. Connecticut: 3,548,160 acres New Jersey: 5,582,080 acres Delaware: 1,250,560 acresRhode Island: 988,800 acresTotal: 11,369,600 acres
02.18.2010	William La Jeunesse, of FoxNews, details Administration efforts to potentially lock up more land in the West. Full story here
02.18.2010	An internal document leaked from the Department of Interior (DOI) indicates the Administration is in the process of considering whether to designate as many as 17 National Monuments located throughout the West. MORE HERE
02.18.2010	An internal document leaked from the Department of Interior (DOI) indicates the Administration is in the process of considering whether to designate as many as 17 National Monuments located throughout the West. This document has Western Caucus Chairman Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) and many other Western Caucus members concerned that these sections of Western land and natural energy resources may be the next target of the Obama Administration's radical agenda. The DOI document mentions designations and land acquisitions in 11 different western states: Utah, Montana, New Mexico, California, Nevada, Arizona, Oregon, Washington, Colorado, Alaska, and Wyoming. Approximately 13 million acres of land (possibly more) are at risk for potential designation. "The Antiquities Act has long been misused and abused beyond its original intent. If Western members seem worried it is because we have been burned by Presidential designations in the past. The designation process should be submitted to an open and transparent process," said Rep. Bishop. "If such designations were to be implemented, ranching, energy production, recreation and future tax revenue for local communities could be significantly harmed. In light of such significant implications, stakeholders, local officials and community residents deserve the opportunity to provide input and voice their opinions. Anything short of that would be completely irresponsible," said Congressman Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Member on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. In 1996 President Clinton, with virtually no warning, designated the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Southern Utah, a 2,600-square-mile tract containing one of the U.S.'s largest known reserves of "clean coal." "This document exposes the hidden maneuvering of the Obama Administration to potentially lock- up tremendous amounts of public and private land without public knowledge or input. This is a gross violation of the promise of transparency and open, public decision-making. The only thing this Administration isn't trying to hide is its unwavering commitment to expanding government every chance it gets. While the President may be frustrated with his inability to pass his agenda through a Democrat-controlled Congress, he should not try to score political victories through secretly-plotted unilateral executive declarations that may please some special interest groups but will harm the livelihoods of countless American families and communities across the country," said House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04). "Any federal action that could lead to limited access should be done in an open and public manner using extraordinary caution. Stakeholders, residents, and local officials should have ample opportunity to provide their input and opinions on the proposal—as well as to evaluate what the impact on local economies would be in the wake of a designation. The fact that this Administration is already circulating internal memos to bypass Congress and the public process is troubling. There should never be a rush to develop proposals that will have long lasting impacts on the local communities and county residents. The Administration should work closely with members of Congress in an open and transparent process before deciding to designate any national monuments," said Congressman Dean Heller (NV-02). "This Administration just doesn't get it. Americans want jobs, not more federal bureaucracy and red tape. But that is exactly what they'll get if the Administration locks up even more of our energy-rich land in the West. Our natural resources hold the key to economic growth and prosperity. If the Administration puts them off limits, it will kill jobs and cut off important revenues for state and local governments," said Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05). "Designating vast swaths of federal land is an antiquated process. This all-encompassing method has been overwhelmingly rejected by Congress and the American people. I am deeply concerned with the Obama Administration's intent to forgo local, state, and congressional participation. Federal land designations have a wide-ranging impact on local communities and states. It is the role of Congress to work with all relevant parties to alleviate concerns and develop compromises. I urge the Administration to reconsider their current path, and allow the legislative process to take its course," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03). "The arrogance of the Administration is fully on display in yet another ploy to make Alaska the nation's largest national park," said Rep. Young. "When the Alaska National Interest Land Claims Act was signed into law it contained a "No More" clause, which essentially said the Administration can't do what they're suggesting! Only by an Act of Congress can more of Alaska's lands be withdrawn into conservation system units, not through Administrative action." In Alaska 'no more' means 'no more' and if this Administration thinks they can use underhanded tactics to ensure that the land is kept 'pristine' enough for their biggest fundraisers to go hiking and mountain biking they better think again," said Congressman Don Young (AK-At Large). "Montanans place a high value on our public lands. We also place a high value on transparency. Pushing through national monument designations without a thorough public process fails to account for the full impact the designation may have on local schools, businesses, and sportsmen and women. The Antiquities Act was never intended as an end-run around the will of the people nor as a land grab device for east coast politicians," said Congressman Denny Rehberg (MT-At Large).
02.17.2010	Today, on the one-year anniversary of the signing of the Stimulus Bill, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), expressed disappointment that, during his remarks yesterday before a crowd in Lanham, Maryland, President Obama only recognized clean energy as a source of job creation, selectively leaving out the overwhelming number of opportunities for job creation made possible by the development of all domestic natural energy resources. "Don't get me wrong, I'm pleased that the President is adopting a pro-Nuclear energy stance, but what about the entire energy industry and the thousands of Americans that are out of work solely because of this administration's anti-energy policies? In my home state of Utah, we were among the first to suffer from the heavy hand of this Administration's anti-energy policies when Secretary Salazar canceled 77 oil and gas leases. Unfortunately, Utah was soon joined by numerous other Western states who suffered the same plight," said Bishop. So far this year, the President and the policies put forth by his Administration have been a leading contributor to unemployment throughout the West, resulting in the highest regional unemployment in the country. "The President's narrowly focused policies, which target a boutique industry, thwart countless opportunities to develop all sources of energy. We must take steps to develop our nation's clean, renewable and alternative domestic energy resources which will in turn create jobs in an industry plagued by layoffs," Bishop added. Highlights of the Administration's job-killing policies initiated since last year include: CANCELED: 77 oil and gas leases in Utah DELAYED: ffshore drilling in the deepwater outer continental shelfBANNED: uranium mining permits throughout the West DELAYED: oil shale development by creating new mandates that restrict the progress on new projects CANCELED: multiple oil and gas leases in Wyoming PREVENTED: domestic oil and gas production by creating and implementing newly expanded federal leasing rules for onshore natural gas and oil programs…further increasing our reliance on foreign resources.ENDED: oil and gas leases in the Rocky Mountain Front "Today, as we reflect on the stimulus package's success or lack thereof, it is clear that instead of continually throwing money at the problem, which history has repeatedly told us doesn't work, we must reverse course and adopt a new game plan that helps put more Americans back to work. That begins by empowering the American people with pro-business policies that allow taxpayers to keep and invest more of their hard earned tax dollars," Bishop concluded.
02.11.2010	Leading the fight on behalf of Utahns and all Americans to save the future of space travel and critical national defense capabilities, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) challenges the President's decision to cancel the Constellation program and the Ares 1 and Ares 5 rockets on the floor of the House of Representatives. "In cancelling this project… what you are doing is cutting 7,000 jobs nationwide that employ people involved in space, engineering, math and science." "This is a double disappointment to me. Not only are we spending too much and taxing too much, we aren't spending it in the right areas." Click here to view Congressman Bishop's remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives
02.11.2010	Today, during Under Secretary of Defense Michele Flournoy's appearance before the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) took the opportunity to ask the Secretary whether or not she had any knowledge as to whether or not the Department of Defense (DOD) consulted with NASA regarding the impacts the President's funding cuts will have on the defense industrial base. As part of the questioning, the Utah Representative pointed to data that seem to indicate that proposed cuts to NASA rocket programs could seriously damage the military's missile defense capabilities. "I hold in my hand part of the ‘Solid Rocket Motor (SRM) Capabilities Report to Congress,' dated June 2009. In the Executive Summary of that report, it makes the following statement on page 47," said Congressman Bishop. "Delays in the NASA Ares program could have significant negative impact on the large SRM prime contractor industrial base and on some of the SRM sub-tier base, specifically material suppliers." "This report only said a delay in the NASA Ares program…would have significant negative impacts… What about cancellation of the Ares program like this Administration recommended as part of the NASA budget for FY 11?" Bishop asked. "If a delay would have significant negative impacts on Solid Rocket Motor industrial base, what about outright cancellation?" Secretary Flournoy responded by stating, that she did not know and subsequently would have to get back to Congressman Bishop.
02.03.2010	BY THE NUMBERS: $3.8 trillion in total FY 2011 spending $2 trillion in increased taxes through 2020 (according to the Administration's own estimates) $1.6 trillion increase in the national deficit Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement regarding the President's Budget for Fiscal Year 2011: "After combing through the President's massive $3.8 trillion dollar budget, it became evident to me that this Administration learned nothing from the mistakes they made this past year. As a history teacher for nearly three decades, I taught my students that history doesn't always have to repeat itself. This is a perfect example of an occasion where I wish that were the case. "Unfortunately, the President's budget is a repeat of the same poor decision making that we saw last year…and look where those decisions got us. This budget spends too much, taxes too much and raises the national debt to a very dangerous level. I'm concerned for Utah, and I'm concerned about the direction in which this country is headed. Despite the President's remarks today, past spending excess is not an excuse for current spending excess. The President committed that his Administration would be fiscally responsible, yet this budget tells a completely different story."
02.03.2010	During Defense Secretary Robert Gates' appearance today before House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), whose Congressional district includes Hill Air Force Base, U.S. Army Dugway Proving Ground, Tooele Army Depot and several defense contractors, took the opportunity to ask Secretary Gates the following questions regarding the NASA component of the President's budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2011, which calls for termination of the Constellation program, including the Ares 5 and Ares 1 rockets produced at the ATK Space Division in Utah. Q- Did anyone within the Obama administration, at NASA, or OMB, consult with you or the Department of Defense on the potential impacts of NASA's termination of the Constellation program and Ares rocket programs A- Secretary Gates responded by stating that he "had indeed not been consulted" by anyone at NASA or anyone in the Administration regarding the implications this would have on national security and preserving a vital segment of the defense industrial base. Bishop has consistently pointed out the critical connection that needs to be addressed between NASA and the Department of Defense when it comes to heavy lift capabilities, as both have relied on large, solid-rocket boosters to lift men or missiles into space. Last year, Secretary Gates terminated the Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program and the Ground Midcourse Defense (GMD) program within the Missile Defense Agency. Both those systems used boosters built by ATK Space Division at Promontory, Utah, and now with the proposed cuts in NASA funding, many fear America's advantage in space, for defense or exploration, will be permanently and dramatically damaged. "THIS REALLY IS ROCKET SCIENCE and therefore we must make every effort to preserve and continue these cutting-edge scientific advancements for future generations," Congressman Bishop added. During today's hearing, Congressman Bishop made the additional point that, "If the President's decision to completely end the Constellation program and the Ares 1 and Ares 5 rockets, is allowed to stand, there will be virtually NO federal program to sustain the Large-Scale Solid Rocket Motor Industrial Base in this country, which will negatively impact our future national defense capabilities." Bishop then read a quote from Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition Ashton Carter, who stated in a Defense News interview dated September 7, 2009, that he wanted to keep a close eye on the various sets of skills that undergird the U.S. defense industry's ability to design and build what the Pentagon orders. "It's not about jobs, it's about certain kinds of jobs; very rare kinds of skills that are not easily replicated in the commercial world and, if allowed to erode, would be difficult to rebuild." Bishop has also stated that, "thousands of people in Utah, especially within the First Congressional District, are losing good-paying high-tech jobs. Many of the employees at ATK have been with the minuteman program for 35 years or more and have unique experience and capability that will now be lost to our country."
02.01.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement regarding today's news that the NASA component of the President's proposed budget fails to include funding for the Constellation program, including the Ares 1 rocket and the Orion project, significant parts of which are manufactured at the Utah-based Space Systems Group of ATK. "This is disheartening news for Utah and the country as a whole. Cutting funding for space exploration will put the United States light years behind in vital science and technology advancements. If the President truly wants the U.S. to be a dominant world leader as he stated during his State of the Union address, the Ares 1 project must continue as planned. Failure to do so will result in a second place seat for the U.S. in the areas of science, technology, innovation, and most importantly national security. Furthermore, the President is ignoring recommendations made by the NASA Safety Review Board, which stated recently that Ares 1 was the safest option for continuing manned spaceflight and that commercial options are untested and unreliable for human-rated flight. "In addition to weakening America's leading edge on scientific advancement, the President will put hundreds of Utahns out of work by not funding the Ares 1 project. This news is especially devastating since we learned just last week that 450 employees at ATK were laid off due to the nation's current economic climate and previous bad decisions in Washington. Surely the President can find funding for this vital project within his $3.8 trillion dollar budget. The President has thrown down the gauntlet on space and space jobs, and now it's time for Congress to step in and stop these cuts. I will join with my colleagues on the bi-partisan NASA Action Team to do everything we can legislatively and politically to oppose the defunding of Constellation and Ares 1." In a letter sent to NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and members of the Utah Congressional Delegation addressed the importance of funding the Ares 1 and Orion programs, noting that they are the safest and most affordable means of pursuing our nation's long-term space exploration goals.
01.26.2010	Western Lawmakers Fight to Bring Water Back to California's Central Valley [click here to watch video] In the San Joaquin Valley, agriculture provides almost 20% of the jobs. -(Economist) What They're Saying About the Man-made Drought and Future of Agriculture in California… "It is a question of political will." "Congress can act, when it has the political will." – Congressman Tom McClintock (R-CA) "This is about the process. We want everyone to have an opportunity to speak to members of Congress, to take the message back to Washington." –Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) "It is falling on deaf ears. That's why there hasn't been a solution." –Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) "During Monday's water forum, eastside farmers spoke up voicing their fear that their land is next to dry up." — [KMPH- Fresno] "If the agriculture goes away, there is nothing." — [Manager of Paramount Farms, Bill Phillimore, the Economist] "I hate to even say it, but I sold my ranch this year." "It's frustrating because we're not getting anywhere and nobody's listening." — [Westside farmer Bob Diedrich, KMPH-Fresno] "People barely survived last season. This season, if there isn't water, it will be a tremendous blow to farmers, to communities, to workers." — [Mario Santoyo, California Latino Water Coalition, KFSN-Fresno] "A seat was set aside for Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, in hopes the Obama–Appointee would attend or send a representative. He did neither." — [KMPH-Fresno] Federal water policy questioned at town hall meeting Changes to Endangered Species Act called for. January 26, 2010 By Robert Rodriguez The Fresno Bee FRESNO -- Major change in federal policies fueled by mounting public pressure must happen to solve the Valley's ongoing water crisis, several speakers said Monday at a congressional town hall forum. More than 200 people attended the meeting at the City Hall chambers. The event was chaired by Rep. Tom McClintock, R-Thousand Oaks, the ranking Republican of the House Natural Resources Committee. McClintock was joined by Reps. Devin Nunes, R-Visalia., Kevin McCarthy, R-Bakersfield, and Rob Bishop, a Utah Republican. A panel of witnesses that included water district officials and farmers provided testimony. Many at Monday's meeting called for changes to the federal Endangered Species Act -- a series of regulations that agricultural advocates say has reduced water deliveries from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to Valley farmers. The delta's massive pumps are shut down during periods when the fish species are threatened. Although previous attempts to amend the ESA in the delta have failed, McClintock urged the public to continue the fight. "It is a question of political will," McClintock said. "Congress can act, when it has the political will." Others in the partisan crowd expressed frustration with the federal government's role in helping Valley farmers. An experiment called the "Two Gates" project has been put on hold by the Department of the Interior. The experiment was designed to divert the threatened delta smelt away from the massive pumps, allowing water to continue flowing south to Valley farms. Federal officials said they want to study the issue further, a move that has further raised the anxiety level among farmers who are entering another year of uncertain water supplies. Last year, farmers idled thousands of acres of farmland and laid off hundreds of workers, many who turned to food giveaways to feed themselves and their families. Fresno Water Forum is Standing Room OnlyJan 26, 2010 By: Ashley Ritchie KMPH-(Fox) Westside farmer Bob Diedrich has spent his life growing tomatoes, cotton and beans in the Valley. But out of his 1,000 acres, he's now farming 300, which forced him to make a painful decision. "I hate to even say it, but I sold my ranch this year," Diedrich said. Diedrich's plight isn't unique to him. But he does feel it's falling on deaf ears. "It's frustrating because we're not getting anywhere and nobody's listening," Diedrich said. "To this administration, it's just business as usual, providing lip service to the problems of this Valley, giving hope, but providing no change," Congressman Tom McClintock said. Four members of the House Natural Resources Committee were in Fresno Monday to hear from the public about their concerns over the water crisis. "This is a ripple effect. I'm not a farmer. But it's affecting my company," one concerned citizen said. "We're saying, help Haiti, we are an earthquake in itself because we're drying up," another local resident said. "How do you think I felt when I stood in a food line in Mendota and saw ‘product of China', in the richest farm land in the world?" Phil Larson, Fresno County Supervisor, said. But not all were there to fight for the farmers. "The benefits of San Joaquin River restoration in our area have not yet been realized," Chris Acree, with Revive the San Joaquin, said. Acree appealed to the committee to keep the environment in mind. "I request that the federal legislature not rush to pass bills that weaken the endangered species act or enable more south of the Delta transfers without ensuring that these measures are compatible with Delta sustainability efforts going on at the state," Acree said. Lawmakers say they'll take the public opinions back to Washington and hope for action. But for Bob Diedrich it's already too late. "It's frustrating to me. Like I told somebody the other day, I might be the first one to go, but I probably won't be the last," he said. Congressman Devin Nunes says he is trying to drum up support for his bill that would turn the pumps back on. Nunes says he needs the support of more than 200 lawmakers to have a chance at accomplishing that. At last count, he says, more than 100 have signed on. During Monday's water forum, eastside farmers spoke up voicing their fear that their land is next to dry up. A Passionate Plea from the Valley for More Water January 25, 2010 By Amanda Perez KFSN-(ABC) FRESNO, Calif. (KFSN) -- Farmers filled a town hall meeting at city hall Monday to tell congressional leaders both they and the Central Valley need water in order to survive. Congressman Devin Nunes invited three other congressmen to participate in the forum, including Tom McClintock, the ranking Republican of the House Natural Resources Committee. "Gentlemen, let me tell you, this is a serious problem. This is a catastrophe. This is our Katrina, this is our Haiti because we got people out of work," Fresno County Supervisor Phil Larson told the panel. The pleas were all for more water because pumping restrictions are in place to protect the endangered Delta Smelt. The forum was hosted by Valley Representative Devin Nunes, who brought other congressmen along to hear just how dire the crisis is. They say house Democrats have been unwilling to help find a solution. "All that's required is political will. The good news is that is rapidly changing across the country," said Representative Tom McClintock. "I think once we educate people in the Valley and people in the state on this issue, people will wake up and say, enough already," said Nunes. Smelt supporters seemed to steer clear of the town hall meeting, but a fishing industry spokesperson told Action News they're willing to help find a solution to support legitimate crops, however, this fight is really just about the sale of water to developers. "What we're seeing coming out of the San Joaquin Valley, we're seeing more and more farmers, particularly some of these large agricultural interests, they're not taking the water for farming. They're selling it to Irvine Ranch, they're selling it to the Mojave Water District," said Zeke Grader, with the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen Association. For Valley farmers, though, this is crunch time. Mario Santoyo with the California Latino Water Coalition said the industry can't take any more setbacks. "People barely survived last season. This season, if there isn't water, it will be a tremendous blow to farmers, to communities, to workers. It's not going to be a pretty picture," said Santoyo. Action News also talked to a spokesperson for Congressman Jim Costa's office Monday. He said Costa stands by his efforts to bring water to Valley communities. Monday afternoon, Costa participated in a hearing in Los Angeles dealing with challenges in California's water supply. Congressional Leaders Listen To Valley Water Plight January 25, 2010 By: Liz Gonzalez KMPH -(Fox) A standing–room only crowd filled the chambers of Fresno City Hall Monday, eager to give Washington lawmakers — their two cents over the Central Valley's water crisis. This meeting was different than previous forums about water. It featured members of the House Natural Resources Committee—including Visalia Congressman Devin Nunes. "This is about the process. We want everyone to have an opportunity to speak to members of Congress, to take the message back to Washington," Nunes said. The crowd at Monday's meeting was diverse; farmers and environmentalists were on hand, along with artists and businesspeople. Westside Farmer Bob Diedrich showed up looking for answers on when he will receive more water. He grows processing tomatoes and other crops. He has 1,000 acres, but only farmed 300 last year. "I wanted to see if there is a glimmer of hope to help me out," Diedrich said. "It's frustrating. We're not getting anywhere." Chris Acree, a self–described environmentalist with Revive the San Joaquin, told lawmakers he understood the plight of many, but asked lawmakers to fully study the issue before weakening the endangered species act. "Legislation used as a hail mary pass for the last drop of precious water in the delta, especially in a drought year, is very damaging," Acree said. This was the third time power players addressed the water crisis in a two–week span. Lawmakers say farmers aren't the only ones fed up. "It is falling on deaf ears. That's why there hasn't been a solution," said Rep. Rob Bishop of Utah. He told those in attendance they should use this crisis as a call to action. "Anything is possible... Everyone needs to go to their networks and associations outside of this area, this state, to tell them how bad this is. You have to get a mass of bodies to recognize there is a problem." While all lawmakers present at the meeting were Republican, they say this was not intended to be a partisan hearing. A seat was set aside for Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, in hopes the Obama–Appointee would attend or send a representative. He did neither. California's Central Valley-The Appalachia of the West California's agricultural heartland threatens to become a wasteland January 21, 2010 The Economist MIKE CHRISMAN looks out from his SUV as he drives through seemingly endless rows of walnut trees on his property near Visalia, in central California. "I have to be optimistic, I'm so tied to this land," he says. His great-grandfather, after trying his luck in the Gold Rush, settled in Visalia in the 1850s, and the family has been there ever since. But as California's secretary for natural resources—a job at the intersection of the environmental and farming lobbies, perennially at loggerheads over the state's scarcest resource, water—Mr Chrisman also knows that optimism has become a minority view. His land is in California's Central Valley, a region that covers 19 counties and stretches for 450 miles (725km) from the Cascade mountains in the north to the Tehachapis in the south, and is bounded in the east by the Sierra Nevada and the west by California's Coast Ranges. Much of it was an inland sea in its geological past, and its alluvial soils and Mediterranean climate make parts of it, particularly the San Joaquin valley in the south, about the most fertile agricultural region in the world. But this status is at risk because water, the vital ingredient to make the soil productive, is increasingly scarce. Some of the reasons are natural; California has been in one of its periodic droughts since 2006, and climate change is a long-term threat to the state's mountain snowpacks. Others are political; the pumps and aqueducts that carry water from the wetter north to the dry fields in the south are creaking with age, threatening ecosystems and endangering species. "Water is our biggest issue," says Bill Phillimore, the manager at Paramount Farms near Bakersfield, the largest grower of pistachios and almonds in the world, and of pomegranates and citrus fruits in America. Water used to be 20% of Paramount's costs, he says, but now accounts for 30%. As a result, many farmers are letting their fields lie fallow or switching from thirsty crops, such as cotton, to those that need less. Paramount's trees, lined up like soldiers on parade as far as the eye can see, are irrigated by tiny "micro-sprinklers" at their base so that water hits only the roots and no drop goes to waste. Farming will not disappear, but whether it will be as big as it is now is a question, says Mr Phillimore, adding that "If the agriculture goes away, there is nothing." In the San Joaquin valley agriculture provides almost 20% of the jobs. The alternatives are depressing and scant. For example, many of California's prisons are sited in the Central Valley's wide expanses, in what is sometimes called an "archipelago". A big problem is that the workforce in the Central Valley is badly educated, says Carol Whiteside, the founder of the Great Valley Centre, a not-for-profit organization whose aim is to improve the region. The largest farms are often still owned by the families that arrived a century or so ago—the descendants of Portuguese and Dutch immigrants are big in dairy farms, for example. But most of the whites tend to be "Okies" who arrived from the dust bowl of the Great Plains during the depression, such as the fictional Joad family in John Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath", who drove up and down in search of work on the stretch of Highway 99 where Paramount Farms now sits. Economically, socially and educationally, their descendants have barely moved up. Nor have more recent immigrant groups such as the Hmong, Thai and Mien, who came to work in the fields during the 1970s and now live in Central Valley cities such as Stockton, Fresno and Modesto—or, of course, the Mexicans, who have been coming since then and are now the majority of workers in the fields, where Spanish is the common language. These demographic trends, combined with the water shortage, are causing worry. The Central Valley is already one of the poorest regions of the country. And its population, about 6.7m in 2008, is among the fastest-growing; it is expected to double in the next 40 years, as new immigrants continue to pour in looking for farm work. This has led to comparisons with Appalachia, which has also relied on a declining extractive industry (coal mining) and has suffered from high unemployment, poverty and a relatively unskilled workforce. A report commissioned by Congress in 2005 argued that the San Joaquin valley is in some respects behind Appalachia's coal country in diversifying its economy. As the almond trees of the San Joaquin valley go into their February bloom, turning the plains white with their buds and abuzz with millions of bees who are temporarily imported to pollinate them, it may be hard to see devastation in the making. Nonetheless, the Central Valley's future looks increasingly barren.
01.22.2010	Following the President's tour of the Wind Turbine Manufacturing and Fab Lab in Ohio and his speech today on clean energy jobs, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, pointed out that American creativity and entrepreneurship are better than the federal government at creating jobs. Updated unemployment numbers released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics reflect that the West maintains the highest regional unemployment rate of 10.7%. "I am a proponent of developing alternative sources of energy, including wind. However, while the President's plan for clean energy job creation makes a compelling sound bite, the reality is that nobody has explained where we'll get the money to "create" those jobs. "Every dollar the federal government spends comes from one of three sources: taxes from hardworking individuals, borrowing from future generations, or by printing money. Wouldn't it make far more sense if the families and individuals who earned those dollars were allowed to choose where those funds should be directed instead of allowing President Obama to direct them to his so called "green jobs" proposal? "Far more jobs will be created if we would let true American ingenuity, entrepreneurship, and free enterprise lead our economic recovery instead of the federal government deciding to prop up a small, politically charged niche job market that fails to support all American small businesses throughout the entire country," said Congressman Bishop. This boils down to a simple question: Are the American people truly able to decide how their money should be spent or do we believe that politicians know better? "The strength of our economy resides in the ingenuity and creativity of the can-do American spirit, not government mandated programs. It's time to transfer the power and decision making back to those most equipped to get this country back on track- the American people," Bishop concluded. In one year, the Administration has prevented thousands of diverse energy-related jobs from being created throughout the West and the entire country by: • Cancelling 77 oil and gas leases in Utah • Delaying offshore drilling in the deepwater outer continental shelf • Banning uranium mining permits throughout the West • Placing multiple restrictions on oil shale development causing subsequent delay of projects • Cancelling multiple oil and gas leases in Wyoming • Expanding federal leasing rules for onshore natural gas and oil programs • Ending oil and gas leases in Montana's Rocky Mountain Front
01.15.2010	Upon learning the Obama Administration had managed to orchestrate the withdrawal of additional oil and gas leases in Montana, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, commented on the Administration's successful track-record of blocking both domestic energy independence and new job creation. "This is yet another example of the Administration's rhetoric failing to match up with reality. While Secretary Salazar would like us to believe that this administration is taking a balanced and even handed approach to energy development, the facts point to the contrary. Canceling vital oil and gas leases throughout the West not only reverses years of progress towards achieving greater energy independence, but also deprives an employment-starved region of good high-paying jobs," Bishop stated. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the West has the highest regional unemployment (10.6%) in the country. "It is time Secretary Salazar put the interests of the American people before the agendas of radical special interest groups that are intent upon locking up the West," Bishop added. "Jobs and domestic energy should be a priority- two things this country desperately needs. Sadly, those in power are choosing to ignore the facts to fulfill their political agendas." In one year, the Administration has significantly contributed to joblessness throughout the West by: Cancelling 77 oil and gas leases in Utah Delaying offshore drilling in the deepwater outer continental shelf Banning uranium mining permits throughout the West Placing multiple restrictions on oil shale development causing subsequent delay of projects Cancelling multiple oil and gas leases in Wyoming Expanding federal leasing rules for onshore natural gas and oil programs Ending oil and gas leases in the Rocky Mountain Front
01.13.2010	Members of the Congressional Western Caucus responded to Secretary Salazar's decision today to unilaterally cancel oil and gas leases in Utah following a seven-year comprehensive, open and public land management planning process. Secretary Salazar's decision will prohibit responsible access to over 130,000 acres of land containing a significant source of American energy and will stifle much needed economic development in the West. Upon hearing of Secretary Salazar's decision, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-1), Chairman of the Western Caucus, said, "Frankly, I'm astounded at the timing of this decision. At the very time our nation is debating legislation to create jobs and shore up our economy, the Department of Interior is taking steps to kill jobs and economic development in my home state. This sale would have expanded employment and stimulated the economy of Utah. Secretary Salazar's decision today has robbed taxpayers of millions of dollars of royalties and tax payments." Congressman Dean Heller (NV-02), the Policy Chairman of the Caucus commented: "Our country needs to take a broad approach to energy development. Congress and the Administration should embrace energy policies that promotes conservation, encourages renewable energy development, and increases our domestic oil supply in an environmentally safe manner. Closing access to domestic energy hurts our economy, deprives our nation of revenues, and places our long-term energy security in jeopardy. It is disappointing that Secretary Salazar who is from the west has decided to side with east coast environmental interests," said Heller. "This is truly disappointing that on the heels of $4-a-gallon fuel prices last year, the Interior Secretary would take more American energy off the table. Our country desperately needs more, not less, energy from both traditional and renewable sources. Taking more land out of production puts us further at the mercy of nations hostile to the United States. It also is a body blow to American consumers just when our country needs to create more jobs. It is odd that the Obama administration would talk about stimulating jobs on one hand and make life more difficult for consumers and working families on the other," said Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05). Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), responded to the decision saying: "I was cautious in my initial assessments of President Obama and his newly appointed Interior secretary, Ken Salazar – hopeful even that they would both recognize the important role the Intermountain West plays in securing our nation's energy security and independence. Today's action, by Executive fiat, is a cruel kick to an already downtrodden economy. This action deprives Utah and the US Treasury of needed income during a time of severe economic recession, and it deprives the rural parts of my state of the best paying and most stable jobs out there. It also deprives all Americans of valuable American-made energy resources. It's hard not to be cynical when the Democratic Administration, drunk with its newfound power, makes such irresponsible decisions." "American energy, produced by American companies, who employ hard working Americans, is the best possible stimulus package Congress could adopt. Yet the news out of the Interior Department today will only increase our dependence on foreign unstable countries and send more money and jobs overseas. It's time for the Secretary to treat our natural resources as the asset that they are and to work with Utah delegation to find a viable solution," said Congressman Glenn Thompson (PA – 05). Congressman John Shadegg (AZ-03) commented: "The Obama Administration is now attacking Americans. Simply put, Secretary Salazar's action today will cost Americans jobs. America has energy resources which need to be developed and it is insane to outsource those jobs to energy industry workers in Saudi Arabia, Russia and Venezuela." Continued Cong. Bishop, "It is disappointing to see the first major decision from a nominee who promised to be a moderate voice at the Department of Interior be one that seems to directly follow orders from special interests. I sincerely hope this is not a sign of things to come." The Western Caucus, established in 1992 and comprised of nearly 40 members of Congress, has long advocated responsible economic and energy development in the West and throughout America.
01.13.2010	Following Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar's announcement today on the Obama Administration's new oil shale policy, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and ranking member of the Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, stated his disappointment and concern for what he calls, "Secretary Salazar's mastery of political packaging." "On the heels of his announcement to block access to vital oil and gas leases in Utah and defer exploration off our nation's coasts, today we learn that Secretary Salazar is keeping up his mastery of political packaging by introducing additional roadblocks to our nation's abundant oil shale resources under the guise of "new opportunities," said Congressman Bishop. According to the release sent today by the DOI, new oil shale RD&D leases under the new regulations appear they will be subject to a higher standard regarding water usage and surface disturbance than other sources of energy development on public lands. The new requirements make way for a more cumbersome process without increasing the likelihood of a better output. "There is no doubt in my mind that these new rules will further delay the development of America's vast oil shale reserves. The DOI can wrap a bow around it and call it whatever they want, but the bottom line is that Secretary Salazar's announcement today clearly reflects this administration's lack of commitment to achieve long-term domestic energy independence," Bishop concluded.
01.11.2010	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands issued the following statement in response to the Administration's decision to impose stifling mandates and regulations that seek to delay onshore oil and gas leasing: "Today's announcement by Secretary Salazar to expand federal leasing rules for the onshore natural gas and oil program will result in more red-tape and delay, less energy and fewer jobs. The additional bureaucratic hurdles announced today will stymie domestic energy production and will necessarily increase our dependence on foreign and often unstable countries." "I am deeply frustrated with the new restrictions on categorical exclusions. Categorical exclusions are one of the best success stories of the 2005 Energy Policy Act. The Secretary of Interior should understand that the Section 390 categorical exclusions are statutory, not administrative. There is nothing in the statutory language that even mentions extraordinary circumstances; rather, the language is straightforward in mandating the use of categorical exclusions when the conditions in the statute are met. The Department of the Interior is not at liberty to decide which provisions of law it chooses to follow. Congress directed the Department to use this valuable permitting tool and the Administration should not be seeking backdoor ways to avoid its duty to do so. This is yet one more example of this Administration's overreach and disregard for the law."
12.10.2009	"I could not imagine any situation as dangerous and threatening to this country as what we're seeing along the border, especially in Arizona. Any country, to be sovereign, has to at least control its land. You cannot turn over areas to drug cartels, with the potential of terrorists coming through, and that is the situation we have on the southern border," said Congressman Rob Bishop. Lee Baiza, superintendent at Organ Pipe, said he's never seen the wilderness study documenting the degradation of the land he manages.Threats and Degradation A congressman uncovers two buried studies showing the impacts of illegal immigration, smuggling by Leo W. Banks, Tuscon Weekly December 10, 2009 v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} The federal government's border fence has been called the Tortilla Curtain. But in the swamp of border politics, there's a more effective barrier at play, one that filters ideas rather than people. It explains why most Americans still don't fully understand the disaster on our southern border. This tortilla curtain is propped up by much of the major media, activist groups and cheap-labor-addicted businesses, big and small. They're all spinning us, for their own reasons. But the list includes the feds, too. More than anything, bureaucrats want to convince you of the great job they're doing. If the facts say otherwise, they'll sanitize, sugar-coat and sometimes suppress—which a Utah congressman believes has been the case with two blockbuster studies, 7 and 5 years old, that have never seen daylight, until now. The Bush administration's Department of the Interior did both. They were intended to measure the impacts of illegal immigration and drug-smuggling on Interior Department-managed lands in Arizona. The first, from 2002, was a threat assessment for such places as Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge and the Tohono O'odham Nation. It concluded the threat was great indeed, both from the surge of aliens and drug smugglers who are "decimating public resources," and from the invitation the open border offered terrorists. The study said bad guys could easily cross into Arizona using established trails and a pre-existing labor pool of $10-a-day mules who "do not care, or want to know, what they are smuggling." The second study, from 2004, looked at how the open border impacted Sonoran Desert wilderness in southwest Arizona, mainly Organ Pipe. This picture was equally grim—for the land, for endangered species and for the whole concept of border wilderness. Both studies noted that the Border Patrol policy of blocking entry around cities and border ports pushed this illegal activity into remote areas. All of this sounds like information a good citizen would need to decide how to vote, and a good lawmaker would need to make wise policy. So why did Bush, and then Barack Obama, try to bury both studies? The wilderness study in particular was handled oddly. It was presented at a 2004 meeting of a borderlands managers' group of public officials who gather regularly in Tucson to talk about border issues. Fred Patton, one of the study's authors and former chief ranger at Organ Pipe, made the presentation. No one in the room was given a hard copy of the content. Even these hardened public lands officials were taken aback by what they heard. Former Forest Service district ranger Keith Graves, who was at the meeting, remembers Patton saying that if someone asked him whether Organ Pipe was an appropriate place for a national monument today, he'd say no. According to Graves, Patton added the wilderness at Organ Pipe had been so degraded less than 10 percent still met that designation. "We thought this study was going to be great to show the impacts," says Graves, now a liaison between Forest Service and the Secure Border Initiative. "But we never heard about it again." Congressman Rob Bishop, ranking Republican on the Parks and Public Lands Subcommittee, first heard about the desert wilderness study in April, and began asking the Obama administration's Interior Department for a copy. It finally came, after 10 weeks, when Bishop gave the study's verbatim title to the Interior Department. He says he was stonewalled and sees the delay as a pattern that makes him mad as hell—search YouTube for a video of Bishop haranguing Interior Secretary Ken Salazar. The Tucson Weekly tried to find out why these studies were never released and got the same treatment. Daniel Wirth, who did the threat assessment, said his study was "law-enforcement sensitive," and it apparently still is. When pressed with more questions, Wirth said he needed permission from his bosses at the Interior Department, where he's southwest border coordinator for law enforcement and security. But that permission didn't come. Patton, who still works for the Interior Department, didn't respond to two e-mails. Lee Baiza, superintendent at Organ Pipe, said he's never seen the wilderness study documenting the degradation of the land he manages. "I've heard reference to it," he said. "But I never saw it ... not that I can recall." Asked if he wanted to see it, Baiza said flatly, "No. A lot of things have changed. We're moving forward." Kendra Barkoff, press secretary to Salazar, repeated Wirth's "law-enforcement sensitive" claim, adding, "This took place before our time here." She added that the department under Bush had not followed up on the studies, and that the department under Obama has no plans to do so, either. She said the studies aren't newsworthy. "I don't think it comes as a surprise terrorists can come into the country any way they want to," said Barkoff. She told the Weekly to call the Department of Homeland Security. As Bishop wrangled with Interior to get the wilderness study, he also acquired the threat assessment. His reaction to both? "I was flabbergasted," says Bishop. "I could not imagine any situation as dangerous and threatening to this country as what we're seeing along the border, especially in Arizona. Any country, to be sovereign, has to at least control its land. You cannot turn over areas to drug cartels, with the potential of terrorists coming through, and that is the situation we have on the southern border." Significantly, he added: "We've received no information that the threat potential is markedly different today." Bishop believes we are sacrificing public lands on the border to the wilderness designation. By restricting Border Patrol's access to border wilderness, we effectively turn these lands over to bad guys, leading to their degradation. He made that case in The Washington Times on Nov. 16. The issue is relevant, in part because of a proposal to make the Tumacacori Highlands, near Nogales, a wilderness. These events also are evidence of how nothing much changes. Back in 2004, at roughly the time the Interior Department was producing these studies, David Aguilar, head of the Border Patrol, met with reporters in Laredo, Texas, and declared the border secure. He's still the Border Patrol chief today. Homeland Security boss Janet Napolitano recently came out with a similar declaration. Read the National Park Service report on the Organ Pipe National Monument here. Read the 2002 Threat Assessment for Public Lands report here.
12.10.2009	"The concern we hear back home is that this legislation would grant virtually unlimited regulatory control over all wet areas within a state. This bill attempts to trump state's rights and pre-empts state and local governments from making local land- and water-use decisions," Western lawmakers said in the letter. GOP opposes expanded water act By Amanda DeBard, Washington Times December 10, 2009 A group of 28 Republican lawmakers from Western states is fighting efforts by Democrats in the House and Senate to quietly expand the scope of the Clean Water Act, the federal government's main tool for regulating the quality of the nation's waterways. The lawmakers sent a letter Tuesday to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada opposing efforts to rush through Congress the Clean Water Restoration Act, a bill that would allow the federal government to protect all waters of the U.S. from pollution, not just the "navigable" waters covered in current law. The letter says that the lawmakers would vote against any legislation that contains the expansion. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee passed the legislation in June, and the House may consider a similar measure before the end of the year. The House is scheduled to go on vacation at the end of next week, prompting Republican fears that the legislation could be tacked on to another bill on the schedule and passed in the session's closing hours, said Melissa Subbotin, a spokeswoman for the Congressional Western Caucus, which wrote the letter. Lobbyists said the measure could be attached to an unrelated bill with strong support, such as a spending bill for defense programs. House lawmakers are trying to pass the defense bill this year. Ms. Subbotin said that Republicans' opposition and the letter are a direct response to a story published Friday by The Washington Times on the "navigable" water issue. She added that GOP lawmakers were surprised by the House Democratic leadership's ambitions to move the measure so quickly. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James L. Oberstar, Minnesota Democrat, is writing the House's version of the measure. He has not introduced it yet, but a spokeswoman for the committee told The Times, "Congressman Oberstar has told the committee to prepare to move a bill this year." Mr. Oberstar and supporters of the legislation say the provision is needed to clarify the scope of the Clean Water Act, the primary tool the Environmental Protection Agency uses to protect the nation's waters. They say the interpretation of the act was thrown into question after two Supreme Court cases in recent years substantially limited the agency's authority under the 1972 law. Mary Kerr, a spokeswoman for the House transportation panel, said Mr. Oberstar was not seeking to expand federal regulatory powers. He instead wants to return the interpretation of the act to its historical definition, she said. By deleting the word "navigable" in the act, the EPA, in conjunction with the Army Corps of Engineers, would have the authority to regulate all bodies of water, from creeks and small ponds to major rivers and lakes. Federal agencies currently regulate lakes large enough for ship traffic and their adjacent waterways. But opponents, including a number of leading business groups, see the deletion of the word "navigable" as a stealth federal power grab that would harm business activity. The American Farm Bureau Federation, the nation's largest agriculture lobby, the National Mining Association and other business interest groups have formed the "Waters Advocacy Coalition" to lead the charge against the legislation. The Republican lawmakers say they were spurred to act in part because of complaints they heard back in their states and districts. "The concern we hear back home is that this legislation would grant virtually unlimited regulatory control over all wet areas within a state. This bill attempts to trump state's rights and pre-empts state and local governments from making local land- and water-use decisions," the letter says. Specialists say the legislation would extend government regulation to 20 million acres of the nation's so-called "isolated" wetlands and 59 percent of the nation's streams that do not flow year-round. "This legislation will hurt states and communities across America. The consequences and impacts of the Clean Water Restoration Act deserve a thorough and open debate in Congress," the lawmakers wrote.
12.08.2009	In a letter sent today to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Members of the House and Senate Western Caucuses cited concerns over job loss and regulatory overreach in expressing their strong objections to the Clean Water Restoration Act (CWRA) (S.787). The letter, signed by 11 Western Senators and 17 Western House Members, stated, "In the West… where the frontier spirit of smaller government and individual liberty are still sacred traditions, there is overwhelming objection to this bill. We strongly object to any attempt to move this legislation, either as a stand alone bill or as an attachment to a bill, in the Senate or House of Representatives. More specifically, we cannot imagine any bill so important that we could support it with the Clean Water Restoration Act attached." The CWRA seeks to expand the jurisdictional sweep of the Clean Water Act, introduced in 1972, by granting the federal government authority over all U.S. waterways. Most notably, S. 787 removes the requirement that regulated waterways be "navigable," as originally stated in the Clean Water Act. The deletion of the word "navigable" will allow all inland waters to be subject to federal regulation. The letter further stated, "This legislation would grant the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers, virtually unlimited regulatory control over all wet areas within a state. This bill attempts to trump state's rights and pre-empts state and local governments from making local land and water use decisions. This bill will also build an even more expensive, cumbersome bureaucracy which will increase delays in securing permits and will slow or stop vital economic activities all across the country. Commercial and residential real estate development, agriculture, electric transmission, transportation and mining will all be effected. Thousands of jobs will be lost." The proposed legislation would make it more costly to: grow crops manage livestock provide water to local municipalities operate and maintain water storage and delivery facilities carry out other activities on both public and private lands Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT): "As fellow Westerners, surely Senator Reid and Congresswoman Pelosi recognize the impact this legislation will have on communities and industries throughout the West. The unprecedented expansion of the federal government's power and control over our nation's waterways will make way for complete federal regulation of every water resource in the U.S.- from puddles to playas. If the federally created drought in California is any indication of what federal control of water will be like, we must do everything possible to prevent this legislation from moving forward." Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY): "Water is extremely precious to our way of life in Wyoming due to our arid climate," Lummis said. "Wyoming's state government has done a terrific job managing our limited water resources. Yet somehow, Washington thinks they can do a better job than local water managers. This bill simply represents another massive power grab in the West by a Congress that wouldn't know a puddle from a spring, and I will continue to work with my western colleagues to stop this legislation dead in its tracks." Congressman Don Young (R-AK): "According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, over 40 percent of Alaska is classified as wetlands and Alaska contains 63 percent of the total wetland acreage in the United States (excluding Hawaii). The Clean Water Restoration Act would affect Alaska more than any other state. Federal infringement on state jurisdiction is wrong and this language encourages such actions. Seasonal and/or isolated waters, and essentially any wet area, would be within federal reach even if there is no hydrological connection to a navigable water body. Allowing the federal government to seize control of all intrastate waters would have a harmful impact on construction, resource development, and the economy of all of our states including Alaska and I will be a very vocal opponent to this language." Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA): "I am deeply concerned by this Congress' ever-increasing push towards bigger government and increased regulation, the latest being this effort to enact one of the most significant intrusions on private property rights in history. This legislation would give the EPA and the Corps of Engineers total jurisdiction over any standing water or hydrologic connection in the country. It could make the EPA and the Corps America's central land-use authorities. Not only does it fly in the face of the Constitutional protections of private property and other freedoms America was built on, it would slow our economy during these very difficult times by killing jobs and delaying critical infrastructure projects. I urge Congressional Democrats to consider the serious negative effects of pursuing this bill and instead look for positive solutions to our nation's water issues." Congressman Lee Terry (R-NE): "This bill would pre-empt the water management decisions of our local natural resource districts in Nebraska and interfere with their efforts to construct or repair pipelines, ditches, canals, diversion structures and wells by imposing new, federal permitting requirements." Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT): "The Clean Water Restoration Act grants the EPA unfettered power to regulate virtually any area where water is located. In the West, commerce, local economies, and communities depend heavily on vast systems of canals, ditches, and other water delivery systems for basic needs," said Chaffetz. " The added layer of bureaucracy, regulation, and intrusion this bill creates will have far reaching effects on our country and I will work to defeat it." The following Representatives and Senators participated in the letter: Senators: John Barrasso (WY), Bob Bennett (UT), Mike Crapo (ID), John Ensign (NV), Mike Enzi (WY), Orrin Hatch (UT), Mike Johanns (NE), Jon Kyl (AZ), Lisa Murkowski (AK), James Risch (ID), Pat Roberts (KS), John Thune (SD) House Members: Rob Bishop(UT-01), Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Mike Coffman (CO-06), Michael Conaway (TX-11), Jeff Flake (AZ-06), Dean Heller (NV-02), Wally Herger (CA-02), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Cynthia Lummis (WY-At large), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Denny Rehberg (MT-At large), John Shadegg (AZ-03), Mike Simpson (ID-02), Lee Terry (NE-02), Mac Thornberry (TX-13), Greg Walden (OR-02), Don Young (AK-At large)
12.08.2009	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, responded to the historic announcement made today by the EPA laying the groundwork to regulate greenhouse gases. "Today the EPA has attacked the American economy in a way that will long be remembered. It comes as no surprise that the administration is once again positioning itself to bypass the Congressional process. This announcement follows a growing trend of the new administration to act unilaterally whenever their political agenda is held up in the democrat controlled Congress," said Congressman Bishop. "Asking the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas is the equivalent of lacing on ice-skates to run a marathon. At a minimum, doing so can't help but prove to be terribly painful, costly, and inefficient." As millions of unemployed Americans around the country are looking for some semblance of relief, EPA bureaucrats are looking to impose a complex, massively intrusive conglomeration of red tape to regulate greenhouse gases. If implemented, the new EPA regulations will force businesses to pass the costs on to consumers or in many cases close their doors altogether. "Despite the fact that scientific data underlying the studies of global warming appear to have been manipulated to produce an intended outcome, EPA officials disregarded the contaminated science calling it little more than a ‘blip on the history of this process.' It is becoming increasingly obvious that the EPA is more interested in grabbing power over our entire country than in getting the science and the answer right," Bishop added. "Who can afford higher energy bills, higher business costs and ultimately higher gas prices- especially when 10% of the country is out of work? If ever there was an issue that cries out for the full public scrutiny through the Congressional process, EPA-led regulation of climate change is it. Citizens need to have a full understanding of the positive and negative implications of such a regime and have their voices heard regarding the form and timing of such regulations." Any federal mandate, regulatory or statutory, aimed at regulating domestic CO2 emissions will have tremendous economic, environmental and national security implications for the West and the entire nation. "Though many may not recognize it today, this announcement made by the EPA may very well be among the most historic to come out of this administration," Bishop concluded.
12.04.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Barack Obama's speech on U.S. military efforts in Afghanistan. "I feel like we're in the days of the Johnson administration – with domestic spending out of control and military decisions being made in secret without Congress being fully informed. "However, I want to give the President the benefit of the doubt and review his rationale. "Ultimately, Congress has to make an independent judgment and when that takes place, over the course of the next few days, I want to give major deference to military leaders in the field. After all, they are the ones on the ground, whose lives are on the line, with the experience and expertise to make wise recommendations. We also need to keep in mind this is more than just about the conflict in Afghanistan; it is about a battle against terrorism, and what happens in Afghanistan has a major impact on Pakistan and overall stability in the Middle East. Any decision has ripple effects. "Regardless of the final plan, I will continue to work for adequate funding and additional resources for our troops – something I think the Administration and Congressional leaders have not adequately done."
11.18.2009	After continued talk of the Obama Administration's successes of saving or creating millions of jobs across the country and in Utah, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) today decided to check out how Utah fared from the Economic Recovery Act on Recovery.gov, a website hosted by Vice President Joe Biden and the Executive Branch tracking how stimulus dollars impacted states. "This is great news!" Congressman Bishop announced after visiting the site. "Who needs to count Mormon missionaries in the census when according to the Executive Branch, Utah already has a 4th seat in Congress! Even better, that 4th seat was able to secure $1.1 million dollars from the Economic Recovery Act. Unfortunately, that million dollars wasn't able to create any jobs in the 4th district." According to figures listed on Recovery.gov, $1,124,614 in federal funding from the stimulus act has been spent this year in Utah's Fourth Congressional District – a district which doesn't exist. The website also claims that the 00 Congressional District in Utah has turned $539,834 dollars it received in federal funding into 26 jobs. "If one counts the 00 district, we've actually got 5 seats in Congress," Bishop added.On February 24, 2009, President Obama announced to a joint session of Congress that: "Here in Washington, we've all seen how quickly good intentions can turn into broken promises and wasteful spending. And with a plan of this scale comes enormous responsibility to get it right. That is why I have asked Vice President Biden to lead a tough, unprecedented oversight effort - because nobody messes with Joe. And we have created a new website called Recovery.gov so that every American can find out how and where their money is being spent." "Looks like a few dozen new congressional districts, unaccountable spending and unsubstantiated ‘new job growth' snuck by the Vice President," Bishop concluded. "This website is a red-flag reminder of the failed policies being introduced and hastily ushered through Washington at the expense of hard working tax payers."Click here to view the funding and job increase per congressional district or click here to view the full report.
11.17.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), H.R. 3767, to rename the United States Postal Service facility located at 170 North Main Street in Smithfield, Utah as the "W. Hazen Hillyard Post Office Building." W. Hazen Hillyard was Postmaster in Smithfield, Utah for 29 years (1934 – 1963.) "W. Hazen Hillyard devoted his life to the Smithfield community and its residents. The naming of this post office is a fitting tribute to the love he had for his community, the many lives he touched and the example he set for others," said Congressman Rob Bishop. W. Hazen Hillyard was born June 6, 1893 in Smithfield, Utah and grew up on his father's farm. He served on the Smithfield City Council from 1930 – 1933 and again from 1964 – 1968, during which time he promoted projects to improve and beautify Smithfield. While on the City Council, he performed painstaking research to verify, upgrade and catalogue the records of the City Cemetery. He was active in the local Kiwanis Club, of which he was elected its president in 1937. He served many years on the City Library Board, including several years as chairman of the board. He was chairman of the Smithfield Historical Heritage Society for four years. He was a member of the Cache Valley Council of the Boy Scouts of America for many years, serving as Vice Chairman of the Council. In 1961 he was presented with the Silver Beaver Award in recognition of his long time service in the scouting program. The Smithfield Lion's Club honored Hazen in 1974 with its Outstanding Citizen of the Year award. He was appointed Postmaster of Smithfield in 1934. At that time there was no house-to-house mail delivery in the city so the citizens had to call at the Post Office for their mail. Hazen enjoyed interacting with the people as they stopped at the general delivery window for their mail and for other mail services. He was active in the Utah chapter of the National Postmasters Association being elected as its president at the convention held in Logan, Utah in 1952. He visited all of the post offices in Utah during that year of service. As the population of Smithfield increased, he recognized the need for larger and better postal facilities. He was successful in getting a new, larger building for the post office in 1957. In 1963 he completed arrangements for city delivery of the mail to houses in Smithfield. When Hazen grew older he still was very interested in the improvement and advancement of Smithfield. All would agree he loved the people and the community. W. Hazen Hillyard died April 22, 1992 in his 99th year.
11.07.2009	a)-Government-run option b)-N/A c)-N/A Today, Democrats exercised the control they wield over all three branches of the federal government by passing legislation that will eventually abolish the private market for individual health insurance. The Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962 creates an astonishing $1.3 trillion dollars in new federal spending funded by hardworking taxpayers. "Speaker Pelosi has twisted more arms to pass this bill than this legislation will ever be able to fix," said Congressman Rob Bishop. Congressman Bishop further noted that this legislation: "Will cost $1.3 trillion dollars and impose new taxes that will imperil small businesses and hardworking Americans." "Will impose cuts to Medicare Advantage plans that will result in higher premiums and dropped coverage for more than 10 million seniors." "The formation of 111 new bureaucracies will transfer the power from individuals to Washington bureaucrats. Americans will no longer control their healthcare future." "1,990 pages later, even many Democrats agree this bill still doesn't solve our nation's healthcare problems." "This legislation totally destroys efforts Utah is making to bring real reform and provide Utahns with the power to decide what healthcare option best meets their unique needs." "The bottom line is that when the government chooses, America loses…loses more jobs, more liberty, more freedom, more personal options and the ability to decide what is in the best interest of their future."-30-
11.06.2009	"Oh, I'm confident we've hit bottom."- Vice President Joe Biden, November 2009. Vice President Joe Biden said the recovery plan "is operating as advertised" and on target to reach Obama's goal. - October 2009"We're starting to make real progress on the road to recovery." -Vice President Joe Biden, October 2009. "My message today is that we're on track."- Vice President Joe Biden, October 2009. Click here to view graphs that show the effects of the Democrat Stimulus Package on national debt and job loss
11.06.2009	Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released October's updated unemployment numbers, which reflect the ongoing struggles hard-working Americans are facing during this time of economic instability. "This weekend, Democrats in Congress will have us take up the largest, most expensive and frankly most destructive overhaul of healthcare that this country has ever seen. What more will it take for the Democrats to recognize that our number one priority right now should be putting Americans BACK TO WORK, not bankrupting them for generations to come?" said Congressman Bishop. "I don't operate under any false illusion that Democrats are required to actually address the priorities of this country when they control every branch of the federal government, but the time has come for them to table their extreme political agenda so that we may reverse the direction in which they have us headed. Instead of implementing their job-killing policies, we must work toward finding viable solutions that actually create jobs instead of destroy them." According to the BLS, in October, the number of unemployed Americans increased to 15.7 million. The unemployment rate rose by 0.4 percentage point to 10.2 percent, the highest rate since April 1983.
11.03.2009	"The market will set the price, but unlike the other cap-and-trade proposals that have been offered in this race, no business will be allowed to emit any greenhouses gases for free."- President Barack Obama, October 2007. "When I was asked earlier about the issue of coal, you know, under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket. Even regardless of what I say about whether coal is good or bad. Because I'm capping greenhouse gases, coal power plants, you know, natural gas, you name it, whatever the plants were, whatever the industry was, uh, they would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that money on to consumers."- President Barack Obama, January 2008. "I believe we have to [pass a cap-and-trade bill] because we see that as a source of revenue. Cap-and-trade is there for a reason. You cap and you trade so you can pay for some of these investments in energy independence and renewables."- Speaker Nancy Pelosi, January 2009. "Nobody in this country realizes that cap and trade is a tax, and it's a great big one."- Chairman Emeritus of Energy and Commerce Committee, John Dingell (D-MI) "Provisions of "cap-and-trade" legislation will eventually save Americans money by reducing the amount of energy they buy."- Former President Al Gore, March 2009, before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce's subcommittee on Energy and Environment. "U.S. action alone will not impact world CO2 levels," EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, July 2009.
11.03.2009	Today, Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hasting (R-WA), Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) held a press conference to address Democrat efforts to pass legislation that will create a new $700 million welfare program for wild horses and burros. The actions we will take today demonstrate that the leaders of this congress have more concern for creating homes for horses than jobs for Americans," said Congressman Bishop. "We spend more time focusing on failed stimulus packages, bailouts, bloated budgets, and frivolous legislation like this bill than we do on providing sustainable, long-term jobs for Americans. Our national unemployment rate is reaching near double digit proportions, and yet, here we are talking about a bailout program for horses and burros." Specifically, this legislation: • Requires that wild horses and burros be considered an "integral part of the natural system" on all public lands, not just the areas where they were found when the Act was passed in 1971. • Conducts a horse census every two years • Provides "enhanced contraception" and birth control for horses • Establishes an additional 19 million acres of public and private land for wild horses • Covers $5 million tab to repair horse damage to land • Mandates that government bureaucrats perform home inspections before Americans can adopt horses "This is not the direction this congress ought to take. Given the economic situation we are in, with over 14.5 million Americans out of work, we should be exploring ways to enhance our economy rather than spending more taxpayer dollars on a dubious program for wild horses and burros," said House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings. "Wyoming is home to thousands of wild horses and the overpopulation is having a devastating impact on our grass resources. The passage of this legislation will further exacerbate the problem, requiring millions of additional tax dollars to come in and repair the damage left behind by horses and burros," said Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis. "This is not only the worst piece of legislation of the day- but this is historically by far the worst piece of legislation for our grass resources." Because rangeland forage is finite, reductions in cattle and wildlife would be anticipated and expected in areas where wild horse herds are expanded. "You would think that what is going on today is comical, but it's not a comedy, it is a tragedy given today's record unemployment rates. People are losing their homes and their jobs, yet, today, we are focusing our resources on creating homes for horses, rather than much-need jobs for American people," said Congressman Louie Gohmert.
11.03.2009	This week, in an effort led by Congressman Glenn ‘GT' Thompson (PA-05), members of the Congressional Western Caucus called on U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to address their concerns regarding the manner in which a settlement was reached on the lawsuit filed by the Allegheny Defense Project of Portland, Oregon, the Sierra Club, and the Forest Service Employees for Environmental Ethics in November, 2008, against the Forest Service and the Pennsylvania Oil and Gas Association. Specifically, the lawsuit demanded that the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) be applied to the permitting process for privately owned subsurface rights despite the fact that permitting is already regulated by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. "The Forest Service decision to ignore the state permitting process for privately owned subsurface rights is a dangerous precedent for public lands and private property rights countrywide," said Congressman Thompson. "I applaud the Western Caucus for their support on this issue that means thousands of jobs in my district." The settlement between the Forest Service and out-of-state environmental organizations allows some pending permits to move forward under existing conditions. However, there are concerns that applying new NEPA regulations to all subsequent permitting will impede if not curtail oil and natural gas production in the ANF. Additionally, there is significant evidence that these new regulations will devastate the regional economic engine that has been in place for 150 years. As stated in the letter signed by 22 House Members: "The outcome of this lawsuit is extremely troubling. Unfortunately, circumstances like those facing the ANF already hit too close to home for families across the country who have already experienced job loss as a result of the Obama Administration and their job killing policies," said Congressman Rob Bishop. "Congressman Thompson has been a persistent and aggressive leader fighting for the rights of his constituents. It is my hope that Secretary Vilsack will take a different route that will save the jobs and economy of the Allegheny National Forest and its surrounding communities." Congressman Thompson and members of the Western Caucus noted that there is additional concern for the future implications of the precedent set by settlement, and the impact it will have on subsequent private property rights. Pennsylvania law grants its citizens `reasonable access' to private mineral rights and does not grant either the state or federal government surface or subsurface ownership rights superior to those of a private citizen. A recent Pennsylvania Supreme Court decision [J-52-2008; Belden & Blake Corporation v Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Conservation and Natural Resources] has clearly reinforced this point. However, the Forest Service's settlement appears to convey the opposite: that federal ownership of surface rights somehow trumps those of privately held subsurface mineral rights. With the hope of saving hundreds of jobs that will likely be lost due to the new restrictions, members of the Congressional Western Caucus as well as other Republican supporters called on Secretary Vilsack to swiftly address their concerns. click here to view Rep. Bishop and Rep. Thomspon address joblessness in PA-05
11.02.2009	Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Congressman Denny Rehberg (R-MT) and fellow Western Caucus members have called on Congressional leaders in a letter to include language in the final FY' 10 Department of Interior Appropriations Act that would block plans to spend $2.8 million on wildland fire management in Washington, D.C., a district without a single forest. Click here to view the letter. "This year alone, nearly six million acres, consisting of both public and private lands, have been scorched by wild fires. For some, wild fires are simply seasonal occurrences that often make headlines in the news. However, for those of us from the West, wild fires are devastating realities that threaten our very way of life. Ranches, farms, homes and communities are imperiled each year by the physical and financial burdens that follow in the wake of wild fires. Simply put, allowing millions of dollars in funding to be used for wildland fire management in a district with no forests is one mistake that can be avoided. I encourage the conferees to recognize the importance of this critical recommendation," Congressman Bishop said. According to the National Interagency Fire Center, more than 5.5 million acres of U.S. wildland have burned this year. The letter is addressed to Conferees who will produce the final version of the FY 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. Language was added by the Senate to forbid spending stimulus dollars on wildland fire management in Washington, D.C. This letter calls upon House conferees to uphold that language in the final version.
11.02.2009	Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) joined Senators John Barrasso (WY), Jon Kyl (AZ), Orrin Hatch (UT), Robert Bennett (UT) and Jim Risch (ID) during a press conference to introduce the newly established Senate Western Caucus and its first comprehensive energy legislation, the Clean, Affordable, Reliable Energy Act (CARE). "I commend my Western colleagues for establishing the Senate Western Caucus. Today, more than ever, the collaborative efforts of both caucuses will prove vital to the preservation of our fundamental Western values," said CWC Chairman Rep. Rob Bishop. The inaugural Chairman of the SWC, Sen. John Barrasso said, "we believe in the Western values of rugged individualism, self-reliance, and economic freedom. We oppose federal intrusion in the every day lives of Americans. We understand that Washington can not legislate economic progress by spending billions in taxpayer dollars or imposing strict environmental regulations." The CARE Act is a comprehensive energy bill that addresses current and future energy needs in an environmentally sound and fiscally responsible manner. "The CARE Act is a critical first step towards future collaborative efforts between both caucuses that will provide responsible policies that uphold our traditional Western principles," Bishop added. "Though the Senate and Congressional Western Caucuses may primarily represent the West, we are fighting for all Americans." The Congressional Western Caucus is comprised of the following members: Rep. Rob Bishop (UT)-Chairman, Rep. Dean Heller (NV)-Policy Chairman, Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY), Rep. Jeff Flake (AZ), Mike Simpson (ID),Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT), Rep. Wally Herger (CA), Rep. Don Young (AK), Rep. Trent Franks (AZ), Rep. John Shadegg (AZ), Rep. George Radanovich (CA), Rep. Devin Nunes (CA), Rep. Buck McKeon (CA), Rep. Ken Calvert (CA), Rep. Brian Bilbray (CA), Rep. Elton Gallegly (CA), Rep. John Campbell (CA), Rep. Darrell Issa (CA), Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA), Rep. Mike Coffman (CO), Rep. Paul Broun (GA), Rep. Denny Rehberg (MT), Rep. Walter Jones (NC), Rep. Adrian Smith (NE), Rep. Lee Terry (NE), Rep. Tom Cole (OK), Rep. Mary Fallin (OK), Rep. Greg Walden (OR), Rep. Glenn Thompson (PA), Rep. Henry Brown (SC), Rep. Mike Conaway (TX), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX), Rep. Mac Thornberry (TX), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA) The Senate Western Caucus is comprised of the following members: Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senator Bob Bennett (R-UT), Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID), Senator John Ensign (R-NV), Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT),Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Senator Mike Johanns (R-NE), Senator Jim Risch (R-ID). Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Senator David Vitter (R-LA)
11.02.2009	Today concludes the public comment period of the U.S. Department of Interior's (DOI) five-year plan to expand access to critical and abundant energy resources offshore. Congressman Rob Bishop (R0UT) and fellow Western Caucus members are acutely aware of growing efforts within the current Administration to stymie domestic energy production. Such efforts have subsequently led to the cancellation or delay of oil, gas and additional mineral leases throughout the West and similar regions. "Denying access to the abundant oil and gas resources within the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) is a tragic example of this Administration's continued fulfillment of environmental special interests' agendas," said Congressman Bishop. "Over 14 million Americans are out of work and yet, the Department of Interior continues to drag its heels on granting new leases for energy production." According to a study conducted by the U.S. Department of Energy, if the areas in the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf previously under leasing moratoria were opened for leasing and development, the U.S. trade imbalance would be reduced by approximately $145 billion by 2025 if the domestically produced crude oil serves to offset imports on a one-to-one basis. "Despite the fact that these oil and gas leases would help alleviate our dependence on foreign oil, they would also create over 100,000 long-term high-paying domestic jobs. Jobs our country desperately needs," Congressman Bishop concluded. "I implore Secretary Salazar to recognize the opportunities we have before us that could, if new leases are granted, dramatically improve our nation's energy situation and put thousands of Americans back to work." According to the American Energy Alliance (AEA), developing this single resource could also create an estimated 1.2 million well-paying jobs and generate more than $2.2 trillion in incremental tax receipts.
11.02.2009	Today, Congressional Western Caucus members Rob Bishop (UT-01), House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings (WA-04), Congressman Don Young (AK-At Large), and Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) joined former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, president of the Institute of Energy Research Tom Pyle and other Members of Congress to highlight today as the historic one-year anniversary of President Bush's lifting of the presidential moratorium on offshore drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). Although the ban was lifted one year ago, the Obama administration has delayed a new five-year leasing program on the OCS that would provide access to abundant energy resources and create over a million new jobs. The current unemployment rate has reached a staggering 9.5 percent and could reach into the double digits by the end of the summer. The Obama administration has taken steps to prevent domestic energy production not only on the OCS, but also throughout the West, including the cancellation of oil and gas leases on over 130,000 acres in the state of Utah and by withdrawing the expanded research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) leases for oil shale. "The evidence is clear that this administration seems intent on restricting the development of American energy resources," said Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop. "The reality is that America has ample resources to provide for our energy needs, create new jobs, and start down the road towards economic recovery." Members of the Congressional Western Caucus joined in noting the one-year anniversary of the presidential moratorium being lifted on the OCS. "Our nation needs a comprehensive energy plan that promotes conservation, renewable energy development, and access to our own natural resources. Each of these components is critical to meet our nation's future energy needs. Discouraging the responsible development of our natural resources does nothing to solve our nation's energy problems and keeps our country hostage to foreign oil. We need a long term energy strategy that will create jobs and ensure long-term energy security for our country," said Congressman Dean Heller (R-NV.) "The moratoria has been lifted, but the Obama Administration has demonstrated the OCS will remain off-limits to the environmentally-safe production of American-made energy. Combined with the 77 canceled oil and gas leases in Utah, the Obama Administration has shown it has no energy policy, other than to increase taxes on our current energy consumption," said Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT.) "With unemployment nearing double digits, and energy prices set to spike again, it is time for the Administration to allow for the responsible development of our own resources." "As Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, I realize how much potential our country holds for domestic energy production. But unfortunately, today, we are marking a year of lost American energy and job potential – simply because the Obama Administration has actively discouraged oil and gas development in our country. Instead of opening up the OCS, the Obama Administration and Democrats in Congress are moving forward with a National Energy Tax that will eliminate jobs, spike energy bills and decrease economic growth. Republicans have a better way forward with an all-of-the-above energy plan that protects our environment, provides affordable energy, and creates new high-paying jobs," said Congressman Doc Hastings (R-WA). Nearly 2 million Americans have lost their jobs on President Obama's watch," Congressman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) said. "Yet, he continues to stand in the way of outer continental shelf energy exploration – the associated activities of which could cut those job losses in half. One year after the ban was lifted on producing these vast energy reserves, the Obama Administration has slowed down our ability to produce domestic energy, kept millions of Americans from good paying energy jobs, and allowed the Saudi royal family to keep stuffing their pockets with American dollars spent on imported oil. I urge the President to stop his foot dragging and help millions of Americans to get back to work." "With millions of Americans looking for work right now, the government should be helping the private sector create jobs, not stifling employment opportunities. Unfortunately, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar has chosen to use delay tactics to interfere with offshore drilling. His decision is costing American workers jobs and access to lower-cost energy. I urge Secretary Salazar to reject the fringe environmental elements of his party and adopt a more common sense policy for accessing our country's abundant natural resources," said Congressman Doug Lamborn (R-CO.) "The oil and gas business began in my district when the first commercial oil well was established in Titusville, Penn., 150 years ago. That oil field is still producing. One year ago, President George Bush took a significant step toward energy independence for the nation when he lifted the presidential ban on responsible offshore energy production on America's outer continental shelf, " said Rep. Glenn Thompson, (R-PA.) "But today oil and natural gas drilling activities in the U.S. show a drop of nearly 46 percent from a year ago. Royalties from that lost production could address the trillion dollar debt and create real jobs. Instead, we see a Democratic Cap and Trade plan to tax all fossil fuels out of use. Where is the stimulus in that?" "It was a striking victory for Republicans last year when the ban on off-shore drilling was lifted. It is my hope that President Obama will uphold that executive move to prevent the skyrocketing gas prices we saw early last year under the Democrat-controlled Congress. Anything short of that would ultimately reinstate the ban and hurt an already weakened economy. American families nationwide deserve lower gas prices and independence from foreign oil," said Rep. Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA) "When the ban was lifted on Outer Continental Shelf development a year ago, it was good news for our country," said Congressman Don Young (R-AK). "We thought we were finally making some progress in our quest to develop our own resources. Unfortunately, a year later nothing has been done. The ban may have technically been lifted but the reality is that this Administration and the Majority in Congress have done everything in their power to ensure that we continue to starve this nation of its energy independence. So far in 2009, the U.S. has imported an average of 12.4 million barrels of oil per day. Last year, the U.S. sent $453 billion overseas! It's estimated that drilling in the OCS would provide 1.2 million new jobs and $70 billion in additional wages each year. In an economy like the one we're struggling with today, why are we continuing to send our hard-earned money overseas, and not keeping it at home where it belongs? I'm all for alternate forms of energy, but wind doesn't power planes, trains or automobiles. We need to immediately start developing our fossil fuels and let that pave the way to our energy future. Enough is enough, we cannot wait any longer!" "Today's decision by the Majority and the President to keep vast amounts of American energy locked up, together with last month's cap and tax bill, demonstrate the Majority is out of touch with the needs of the American people," Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) said. "During this time of rising unemployment, we should create American jobs by encouraging responsible energy development, increasing conservation and investing in new forms of American energy."
11.02.2009	In response to the passage of the House FY 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement: "With over 90% of the federal lands located in the West, I am deeply concerned by Democrat's deliberate efforts to shut Westerners out of the process – making way for dramatic increases in government spending. "For the first time in the history of the House of Representatives, this Democrat-led Congress denied members a full opportunity to debate and make much needed changes to the Interior appropriations bill. I personally offered five amendments that would have significantly improved the bill. The Ranking Member of the Committee offered two. Dozens of other amendments were also offered by Western Members- only a handful of them were allowed to be considered. "What we have as a result of their actions is a bill awash with frivolous projects and wasteful spending that ignores the priorities of the very people most impacted by the legislation. The passage of this bill is disappointing news not only for Westerners, but for all hardworking taxpayers."
11.02.2009	Today, during the Natural Resources Committee hearing on the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources Act of 2009 (CLEAR Act, H.R. 3534) Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves as Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, requested that Secretary Salazar address the Department of Interior's recent actions that directly undermine historic and ongoing efforts to reduce the United States' dependency on foreign oil, as well as his actions to delete thousands of domestic energy-related jobs. The CLEAR Act claims to create greater efficiencies, transparency and accountability in the development of federal energy resources. However, upon further examination, H.R. 3534 reveals that it actually discourages domestic energy production and creates yet another heavy layer of federal bureaucracy within the leasing programs by creating the new Office of Federal Energy and Minerals Leasing. "This legislation does nothing to create new jobs, except those jobs created within the new government offices. We need to be putting the 14.9 million unemployed Americans back to work. Instead, this administration is intent on creating more bureaucratic red tape that will lead to more systemic job loss. In Utah, the greatest bouts of recent unemployment aren't coming from economic factors, but are instead the direct result of decisions made by this administration to delete thousands of much needed jobs," said Congressman Bishop. "Introduced under the guise of an energy bill, this Trojan horse does nothing to reduce our dependence on foreign energy. In fact, it discourages domestic production and takes a giant leap backwards in our goal to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Additionally, H.R. 3534 creates an unnecessary Uranium Leasing Program that places additional hurdles in the way of uranium production. "Discouraging domestic uranium production further exacerbates the U.S.'s already excessive dependence on foreign uranium sources," Bishop added. Of the total uranium consumed in the U.S. each year, and despite abundant domestic supplies, the U.S. must import close to 90% from foreign sources to keep up with current demands. In addition to addressing concerns with the CLEAR Act, Congressman Bishop also took the opportunity to have Secretary Salazar address two unresolved and outstanding issues, including Secretary Salazar's decision to rescind 77 oil and gas leases that resulted in systemic job loss and business closures in Utah. Lastly, Congressman Bishop addressed the Department of Interior's unresponsiveness to document requests initially made seven months ago by Congressman Bishop and Senator Coburn. In an effort to mislead the American people by inferring that drilling will take place on land located within two Utah National Parks, Secretary Ken Salazar said during today's hearing that "We should not be drilling in the Arches National Park and Dinosaur National Park." The leases for oil and gas permits are not located "in" either national park, but rather on land adjacent to and out of site from both parks. "This is another example of Secretary Salazar and the Department of Interior facilitating the agenda of environmental activists. In fact, five environmental activist groups were so pleased by his recent policy decisions, they got together and took out a half-page ad in Politico* thanking him for everything he has done to help their cause. Whose interests is Secretary Salazar protecting? It sure isn't the millions of jobless Americans who would have benefited from the domestic energy jobs."Click here to view Congressman Bishop's questioning of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar
11.02.2009	Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Senate Western Caucus Chairman John Barasso (R-WY), along with fellow Western Caucus members from both the House and Senate sponsored a bicameral hearing to address examine the specific economic impact cap and trade policies are likely to have on the West and the nation. At 10.2%, the West currently suffers from the highest regional unemployment rate. REP. BISHOP (UT-01): "As westerners and families across the country are making responsible decisions to live within their means during these challenging times, it makes absolutely no sense to pass a National Energy Tax bankrolled by hardworking taxpayers. The American people have been very clear and consistent with a resounding message that their one priority has been, and continues to be, the economy and the preservation and creation of jobs. It is unfortunate that some in Congress have chosen to ignore them." Myth: Cap and trade will result in a net increase of jobs throughout the nation. Fact: Due to the regulations and mandates created by cap and trade, millions of jobs will be outsourced to countries with friendlier regulatory environments such as China and India. SEN. BARRASSO (WY): "Folks in Wyoming and throughout the West can not afford to take our prosperity for granted. If we pass Waxman-Markey, or a bill like it, that prosperity will be eroded significantly. This bill would shut down existing red, white and blue jobs, for the sake of a few potential green jobs. We need all the jobs. Waxman-Markey is the wrong approach for America." Myth: Cap and trade will provide a net benefit to low-income households. Fact: Low-income households will be hit hardest. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that energy price increases resulting from a 15% cut in CO2 emissions would cost low-income families more than 3% of their after-tax income, while the wealthy would only pay over 1%. REP. HASTINGS (WA-04): "While most of today's news is focused on the status of the Democrats' government-run healthcare plan, Americans should know that the threat of a National Energy Tax is as a real as ever. In fact, earlier this week, a Senate Democrat reported that committees are on track to move forward with their National Energy Tax bill by the end of September. As the West suffers from a 10.2 % unemployment rate – the highest regional rate in the country - now is the worst time possible for the Democrat Congress to pass a bill that will kill jobs, spike energy bills and increase gas prices. Instead, they should support the Republican all-of-the-above energy bill to create new jobs and new energy sources," Rep. Hastings serves as Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. REP. REHBERG (MT-AL): "I unequivocally oppose Cap & Tax and any policy that is meant to increase energy prices. I oppose using taxes and regulations to pick winners and create losers in the marketplace. Those decisions belong in the hands of consumers. I support energy alternatives and conservation as part of a comprehensive energy plan designed increase the domestic supply of energy to bring prices down. While there's never a good time for the government to hamstring the economy, I can think of few worse times then now." Rep. Rehberg is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. REP. LUMMIS (WY-AL): "While this Democrat national energy tax was irresponsibly forced through the House approximately a month ago, it is my hope that our colleagues in the Senate can slow this runaway train down and keep it from reaching the President's desk. We simply cannot afford to sacrifice substance for expediency on a climate change plan that will have such dramatic effects on our nation's energy reliability and the pocketbook of nearly every American taxpayer." Myth: Cap and trade will inject much needed stimulus into the struggling job market. Fact: Economists have historically proven that free and competitive markets prove far more efficient and successful that when the government artificially alters the natural market process. REP. COFFMAN (CO-06): "Today's hearing is especially important because the majority party in Congress has stifled open debate on the Cap-and-Trade issue. I have been extremely disappointed by this lack of transparency and the testimony provided by today has helped paint a more complete picture of how Cap-and-Trade will affect our nation.
11.02.2009	Today, Members of the Congressional Western Caucus and the Republican Study Committee (RSC) introduced the American Energy Innovation Act (H.R. 2300). Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Western Caucus, is the lead sponsor of the bill. The legislation represents a competing vision for America's energy future in contrast to the Cap and Tax mandates endorsed by Democrat lawmakers. "In this bill, Republicans provide a competing vision that emphasizes job growth, innovation, conservation, production and incentives to support true American ingenuity," said Rep. Bishop. "Americans need to know that they do not have to settle for fewer jobs and higher energy costs as a result of Cap and Tax. This bill will create jobs, reduce the deficit, and provide for a stronger more independent energy future." The American Energy Innovation Act (AEIA) addresses today's energy crisis and reliance on foreign oil by promoting increased efficiency, conservation and greater production of all forms of American energy, ranging from solar, biomass, hydropower, wind, geothermal, bio-fuels all the way down to algae as a source of energy. In addition to providing clean, affordable energy, the AEIA encourages and enables the domestic energy production of traditional energy resources, such as Utah's vast oil shale, which will create millions of sustainable long-term jobs over the next 30 years. The AEIA also recognizes that the clean energy options of tomorrow will be found through the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of the American people, not through Washington mandates. "The American Energy Innovation Act was introduced on behalf of every hardworking American who believes that enough is enough with the tax and mandate response to every issue facing our country. You cannot mandate ingenuity or entrepreneurship—that comes from the can-do American spirit this country was founded on," Bishop added. Additionally, the AEIA creates a Debt Reduction Trust Fund, which will direct revenue generated from increased domestic energy production. Furthermore, additional revenues generated from this bill will assist federal debt relief.
11.02.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, released the following statement recognizing October 1st as American Energy Freedom Day: "October 1, 2009 marks the one year anniversary of the expiration of the congressional moratoriums on offshore and oil shale drilling. Though twelve months have passed, we have seen little progress on the domestic energy front. Energy Freedom Day is itself an oxymoron since we are no more free of our reliance on foreign energy today than we were one year ago. In fact, over the past year, roughly 60% of all consumed energy resources were imported from foreign countries. This is an alarming statistic given the resources located right here in the U.S. "Simply put, America has the resources to become energy independent. Failing to utilize these resources carries long term ramifications far beyond the scope of energy consumption or need. Production of our domestic resources would create millions of high-paying long-term jobs that would help alleviate the sweeping joblessness experienced around the country. Additionally, increased reliance on unstable and often unfriendly countries increases vulnerabilities within our national security. We are unnecessarily putting our nation at risk by failing to utilize homegrown resources. "Each day, it seems that we see new efforts in Congress and the administration to stymie development of our natural energy resources through new and burdensome regulations and mandates. Proposals such as the recent cap and trade bill introduced by Senators Kerry and Boxer drive us further away from that once seemingly achievable goal of true energy independence. "Though it seems a distant reality, we can achieve greater independence through legislation such as the American Innovation Act, introduced by the Republican Study Committee and the Congressional Western Caucus. This legislation seeks to encourage and incentivize domestic production which, in turn, creates U.S. jobs and helps to relieve our nation of its foreign dependency. "What this bill recognizes that cap and trade legislation doesn't, is that innovation and ingenuity are not the result of mandates but instead the determination to provide greater opportunities and prosperity for all Americans. I am confident that Americans will persevere and overcome the roadblocks currently blocking domestic energy independence. We have no other alternative. Today, we face many challenges that stand in the way of our access to U.S. grown natural resources that will unlock the shackles of foreign oil. Despite these challenges, it is essential that those who support use of domestic resources for energy creation and job growth recognize that together, we can move mountains and if that's what it takes, that's what will be done. "Lifting government-created roadblocks and prohibitive regulations will make way for a strong economy and a better energy future for our country."
10.30.2009	November 3, 2009 The Honorable Eric H. Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder: In an open and democratic political system, it is important that United States citizens have reasonable access to the justice system to seek redress from the federal government. The Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) is intended to force transparency and accountability on the large bureaucracies of the federal government. We support this goal. We write today, however, to express great concern about the apparent abuse of EAJA by certain organizations, and the lack of accountability and transparency in the operation and distribution of funds under EAJA that have contributed to this abuse. As you know, EAJA was established by Congress to ensure that individuals, small businesses or public interest groups with limited financial capacity could seek judicial redress from unreasonable government actions. EAJA allows plaintiffs to seek reimbursement from the federal government for attorney's fees related to the case brought against the government itself. Many small businesses, non-profit institutions and individuals have used EAJA exactly as it was intended. Unfortunately, we are concerned the lack of government oversight of EAJA payments has allowed some groups to circumvent Congressional intent with respect to this law. Attached is a document submitted by an independent law firm that outlines the amount of tax-payer dollars spent by the Forest Service on reimbursement of attorney's fees between 2003 and 2005. Should these numbers prove accurate, we are alarmed at both the amount of taxpayer dollars diverted from agency budgets, and the high volume of court cases filed. We are concerned that under the guise of "public interest," some organizations with a narrowly focused political agenda regarding the management of public lands in the west are abusing the Congressional intent of EAJA. In order to more carefully examine this issue, Members of Congress and the general public should have full access to data that give us a more accurate representation of how EAJA is administered. Importantly, the Equal Access to Justice Act provided for two annual reports to Congress: one regarding agency awarded payments by the Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS), and the other regarding court awarded payments by the Attorney General. However, in 1995 Congress defunded ACUS and repealed the Attorney General's EAJA reporting requirement, thus ending any Congressional oversight of EAJA. We understand that ACUS was reauthorized and appropriated $1.5 million in March of 2009, but has no staff to date. We are not supportive of additional federal bureaucracies, but fear that without any reporting requirement, agencies have simply ceased to monitor the administration of EAJA. A simple online database of administrative, judicial and agreed settlement payments would be efficient and effective in restoring Congress' oversight responsibility. With that in mind, we request that the Department of Justice respond to us with an explanation about how the Department tracks EAJA disbursements. If no such tracking exists, we encourage DoJ to create a central, searchable EAJA database. The database should indicate the organization's name, the total amount of attorney's fees reimbursed, and the case under which attorney's fees were awarded. A central database under DoJ auspices would be the most transparent and efficient means of bringing EAJA back into the sunshine. EAJA is an important tool for protecting citizens' rights against the federal government. Sadly, its abuse undoubtedly has far reaching consequences on public lands management decisions and for all American taxpayers. We urge the creation of a database to bring transparency and accountability to these public interest groups, and look forward to your reply. Sincerely, _________________________ _________________________ Representative Cynthia M. Lummis Representative Rob BishopRepresentatives: Senators: Representative Devin Nunes Senator John Barrasso, M.D. Representative Wally Herger Senator John Ensign Representative Michael K. Simpson Senator Michael B. Enzi Representative Jason Chaffetz Representative John Shadegg Representative Doug Lamborn Representative Kenny Marchant Representative Denny Rehberg Representative Scott Garrett Representative Todd Akin Representative Blaine Luetkemeyer Representative K. Michael Conaway Representative Trent Franks Representative Paul Broun Representative Glenn Thompson Representative Duncan Hunter Representative Tom McClintock Representative Dean Heller
10.28.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following statement regarding the successful launch of the Ares 1 test flight rocket. Significant components of the rocket launched today by NASA were manufactured and assembled in Utah. "Today's successful test launch of the Ares 1 rocket signals a new era in the U.S. Space program and is further evidence of the hard work and dedication of all of the workers and engineers at NASA, ATK and Northrop Grumman, many of whom are Utahns. It took the concerted efforts of thousands of people over many years, under very tough budget conditions, to get the Ares 1 to this point. My hope is that this Administration will continue to support NASA and the manned space program by not going through with a proposed $3 billion a year cut from future budgets. As the Augustine Commission report recently found, the United States must remain dedicated to future space exploration efforts, which also helps strengthen our economy and national defense. If the Obama Administration guts NASA and puts the Ares 1 and the Constellation program into mothballs, it would be a huge step backwards for our nation both in technology and world standing."
10.28.2009	Today, Senate Western Caucus Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY), Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), and Members representing 11 Western states, responded to a Secretarial Order administered by Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar that will require the DOI to apply new "climate change" policies to the Department's decision-making process. Click here to view the letter to Secretary Salazar. The Secretarial Order will create regional DOI Climate Change Response Centers that will apply existing and future land management agreements to a new set of restrictive regulations and mandates set forth by the DOI. "By bypassing the congressional approval process, the Department of Interior has unilaterally created a new set of restrictive regulations and mandates that will allow special interest groups with narrowly focused agendas to dictate current and future activities on federal lands—all in the name of ‘climate change'," said Congressman Bishop. "Westerners will suffer the most from the increased regulatory burdens that will likely stifle energy development and lead to further job loss." *According to a recent report issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the West is experiencing the highest rate of regional unemployment. "I realize that Congressional action on climate change is not moving as fast as the Administration may want. However, businesses in the west are worried about potential court challenges and administrative action. These new rules will allow special interest groups with narrow agendas to block all existing and future activities on federal lands in the name of climate change," said Senator Barrasso. Western Caucus members cited concerns that the Secretarial Order will hit Western states the hardest and put into questions past and future management agreements related to oil and gas development, renewable energy development, recreational use, grazing, hunting on public and private property, and wildlife protection. These agreements made in good faith between States and the Department will now be subject to change and terms which will likely have a detrimental impact on public land users. Additionally, the new order could potentially cost the American taxpayer millions of dollars and have a far reaching impact on our nation's energy supply. In addition to Congressman Bishop and Senator Barrasso, the letter was signed by: Senators: Mike Enzi – WY Orrin Hatch – UT David Vitter – LA John Thune – SD Representatives: Doug Lamborn – CO Don Young – AK Cynthia Lummis – WY Michael Conaway –TX Paul Broun – GA Tom McClintock – CA Jason Chaffetz – UT Denny Rehberg – MT Wally Herger – CA Dean Heller – NV
10.27.2009	On Monday, October 19, 2009, nearly 180 high school students from Utah's First Congressional District will participate in the Education Conference hosted annually by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01.) Each year, the conference provides students with a unique opportunity to expand upon their current civics and government studies by participating in hands-on discussions with Utah's elected officials and community leaders. "I was a teacher for over 25 years, and while I am no longer in the classroom, education continues to be a priority of mine--whether it is back here in Utah or on the floor of the House of Representatives," said Congressman Bishop. "This conference provides students with a hands-on opportunity to apply their studies of government to current issues facing the state and nation." Throughout the conference, students will take an in-depth look at all three branches of federal and state government, as well as new media, grassroots organization, lobbying and campaign organization. This interactive venue allows students to engage in conversations with elected officials and community leaders about the operation of government and policy making. Additionally, students will participate in case study sessions where they will discuss and debate current issues being addressed in Washington, D.C. This year, the case study sessions will focus on healthcare and energy. Students were selected by their teachers for attendance at this event. Invitations were sent to all high schools and school districts located in the First Congressional District, inviting 20 students from each school to experience an up-close look at government. WHAT: Annual Education Conference hosted by Congressman Rob Bishop WHERE: Utah State Capitol Complex 350 N. State Street Salt Lake City, UT 84114 DATE: Monday, October 19, 2009 TIME: The conference will begin with a welcome address from Congressman Bishop at 8:00 a.m. MDT in the Auditorium of the State Office Building.
10.27.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) recognizing Weber State University for the 120th anniversary of its founding as an institution of higher education. "I am pleased to recognize Weber State University for providing students with 120 years of exceptional academic opportunities. Since its early beginnings as a small academy, Weber State has grown to become one of Utah's premier academic institutions. If the past 120 years are any indication, it is fair to assume that Weber State is on track to continue expanding upon its many accomplishments for generations to come," said Congressman Bishop. "We greatly appreciate Congressman Bishop highlighting the University's 120th anniversary for the U.S. House of Representatives. I'm proud to be a part of this amazing institution and the many great accomplishments that our faculty, staff, and students are contributing to our community and region," said Weber State University President Ann Millner. Ann Millner is the first woman to be named president of a Utah university. Originally founded as Weber Stake Academy in 1889, Weber State University currently offers 200 undergraduate degree programs—the largest and most comprehensive undergraduate offering in the state. Two-year associate degrees or professional certificates, and master's degrees in accounting, business administration, criminal justice and education are also offered by the university. "Weber State epitomizes what our country's higher education system should do - create engaged and outgoing students who then turn around and serve their community and country," said Amanda Rogers Thorpe, President, Washington D.C. WSU Alumni. History of the University can be found here or below. • The Weber River, county and University were named for the American fur trapper John Henry Weber, friend and employee of William Henry Ashley. • John Henry Weber was born in Denmark in 1779, and arrived in the United States in the years before the War of 1812. • In 1822 he answered Ashley's advertisement to become a fur trapper in the American West, and he became one of the trusted leaders of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company. • As the spring of 1825 approached, Weber and his men moved to trap the streams, seeking beaver and other animal pelts. They gave Weber's name to one of the rivers flowing west from the Wasatch mountains. • The Weber River site of Fort Buenaventura was the first of the Mormon settlements in Weber County. During a visit to the Weber River community in September 1849, Brigham Young and other Mormon leaders, including Heber C. Kimball, Jedediah M. Grant and Thomas Bullock, decided to locate the city of Ogden at the site. • On January 26, 1851, the Mormon church reorganized the Weber County area into a broader ecclesiastical district as the Weber Stake of Zion. In 1888 the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) established a general LDS Church Board of Education. The board's major goal was to combine secular and religious education, initially with the establishment of church academies and later by providing LDS religion classes in locations adjacent to public schools. • In September 1888, the Weber LDS Stake Presidency organized the Weber Stake Board of Education with stake president Lewis W. Shurtliff elected as president of the board. • The Weber Stake Board advertised that in January, 1889, the Weber Stake Academy would begin offering classes, with Louis Moench, then serving a mission in Germany and Switzerland, as principal. • The school struggled during the Moench years (1889-1902), although it received annual appropriations from the LDS Church Board of Education. In 1902, David O. McKay was "unanimously elected" to become principal of the Weber Stake Academy. McKay's interest in the Weber school remained strong over the next sixty years. • By 1928, Weber College was faced with several choices: becoming a college dependent on support from Ogden City and Weber County; becoming a state-supported junior college; becoming a branch campus of the University of Utah; or being phased out as a college. • The 1931 Utah legislature passed a bill which provided for the transfer of two LDS church-owned colleges to the state of Utah; Snow College was transferred in 1932 and Weber College in 1933. • Weber College officially became a four-year college in 1964. • The Utah Legislature authorized the addition of upper division courses in 1959, and four years later, Weber State College awarded its first baccalaureate degrees. In 1991, the institution was re-named Weber State University. • WSU now has a 400-acre campus in Ogden, Utah, with 89 percent of the buildings constructed since 1960. • The university is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities and the National Council of Accreditation of Teacher Education. • Business baccalaureate and master's degree programs are accredited by the International Association for Management Education (AACSB), a distinction held by fewer than 10 percent of all colleges and schools of business.
10.27.2009	October 28, 2009 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary, Department of Interior 1849 C St., NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: You recently signed Secretarial Order #3289 on September 14th. This order will incorporate "climate change" into all decision making at the Department of Interior (DOI.) These changes raise a number of serious questions about the future management of our federal lands. We are concerned that the Secretarial Order puts into question past and future management agreements related to oil and gas development, renewable energy development, recreational use, grazing, hunting on public and private property, and wildlife protection. Existing cooperative agreements on wildlife management made in good faith between States and the Department will now be subject to change. Companies relying on existing agreements for energy extraction of natural gas, geothermal, wind, or coal would suddenly be faced with sweeping new changes in terms of what they are allowed to do on these lands. Whether through Administrative action or court challenges, these new rules will allow special interest groups with narrow agendas to block all existing and future activities on federal lands in the name of climate change. This would impose an incredible new burden on federal land managers without any congressional guidance. The new order could potentially cost the American taxpayer millions of dollars and have a far reaching impact on our nation's energy supply. At a time when we are all working to make America energy independent, we cannot put into question all our current and future domestic energy activities on federal land. These regulations will hit the Western United States the hardest. This is where the bulk of federal land is located. Western businesses will be forced to raise prices to cover increasing regulatory costs. Businesses will close their doors and move to other countries where energy extraction is allowed. Westerners will suffer from higher energy and fuel costs or simply be put out of work. The Eastern United States, not accustomed to the impact of vast federal land use regulations, will also feel the impact. Existing uses by the public of federal lands in the Midwest, New England, the Mid-Atlantic States, and the South will be put into question. Groups will be able to sue to block recreational access to national parks, seashores and wildlife refuges in the name of climate change. The DOI regional Climate Change Response Centers created by your order will impact local land use planning on private property across America in the name of climate change. The net result of such federal intrusion would be to stifle economic growth and job creation. By moving forward without the passage of a climate change bill passed in Congress, you are creating a number of unanswered questions. These questions include, but are not limited to, how this initiative will place strains on the current DOI bureaucracy, how land use planners on the ground will implement this order, and what mechanisms will provide transparency in your department's decision-making process. Let us work together to develop sound policies to manage our federal lands based on sound science and stakeholder input. We look forward to working with you to achieve that goal. Sincerely, JOHN BARRASSO, MD ROB BISHOP Chairman Chairman Senate Western Caucus Congressional (House) Western Caucus Senators: Mike Enzi – WY Orrin Hatch – UT David Vitter – LA John Thune – SD Representatives: Doug Lamborn - CO Don Young - AK Cynthia Lummis - WY Michael Conaway - TX Paul Broun - GA Tom McClintock – CA Jason Chaffetz - UT Denny Rehberg - MT Wally Herger - CA Dean Heller - NV
10.09.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) issued the following response to the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) interdisciplinary review team report regarding the 77 leases pulled from the BLM's December 19, 2008 Utah lease sale: "While I respect the authors of this report, their findings are insulting. If the policy of the Obama Administration is to not develop America's energy resources, just come out and say it. Be honest. Be transparent. The one thing I ask is please don't hide behind misleading statements and arguments about a ‘flawed process' or ‘a rush to judgment' by BLM or state officials in Utah. I fail to see how a nine-day on-the-ground review by a team of outsiders is better than the seven-year process of public hearings and real input that produced the comprehensive plan by professional BLM and state employees in Utah."
10.09.2009	The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today that Box Elder and Tooele Counties have been officially designated as non-attainment areas for federal air quality standards. The EPA claims that these counties significantly contribute to the overall Particulate Matter (PM) found in urban non-attainment areas, therefore qualifying them for inclusion in the final designation. Congressman Rob Bishop had three immediate comments: • "This decision ignored local experts and input." • "This decision is based on flawed science." • "This decision won't solve any air problems." Prior to today's announcement, Congressman Bishop along with Utah Senators Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett had requested that the EPA delay an official designation until experts with the Utah Division of Air Quality (DAQ) could provide EPA officials located in North Carolina with a comprehensive study conducted by those most familiar with air and wind patterns in Utah. "Today's EPA designation is a clear abuse of regulatory power. The EPA made a decision based on flawed science and ignored local advice, which will result in the state being ill-equipped to address Utah's PM issues. Moreover, this decision blatantly targets businesses and industries located in Tooele and Box Elder counties that have no impact on the PM levels in urbanized non-attainment areas. It's ridiculous to think that Tooele and Box Elder are contributing significantly to Salt Lake's bad air," said Congressman Bishop. Experts at the Utah Department of Environmental Quality and the DAQ have stated that PM levels would be successfully managed and reduced through the State Implementation Plan without including Tooele and Box Elder counties as non-attainment areas. A report conducted by the EPA concluded that the Contributing Emission Scores for Box Elder is 7 and Tooele is 2, whereas, Salt Lake and Davis each received a 100, the highest score possible. "There were viable alternatives to today's designation that the EPA simply chose to ignore. The arbitrary formula used in the designation process was tailored to deliver one specific outcome. The unfortunate reality is that PM levels will not be impacted one way or the other by the strategic designation of Tooele and Box Elder Counties. This deliberate process selectively targeted local businesses and industries considered by the EPA to be large emitters. This divisive action will strain local businesses and make it harder for Utah to manage air quality standards at the state level," Congressman Bishop concluded.
10.08.2009	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted against the conference report on the Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This comes on the heels of his decision not to sign the report as one of the officially-appointed conferees – one of the negotiators on the final version of the bill. Mr. Bishop, who has consistently backed increased funding for the military, had previously voted in favor of the House version of the defense bill. "I have always been an ardent supporter of efforts to strengthen our national defense and provide resources and equipment for our troops," Congressman Bishop said. "And I was proud to support the earlier version of the House bill, which wasn't perfect but was a bi-partisan product that would have helped our Armed Forces. While I am a supporter of a strong national defense, and have voted previously in support of critical defense funding for our troops, I am saddened that the Senate and the Democratic majority have maneuvered to sneak in a highly-controversial, unrelated federal hate crimes expansion into the defense authorization bill. This politicization of the defense bill, arguably one of the most important and critical pieces of legislation we will pass this year, is simply unacceptable." Although Bishop didn't support the final legislation due to the politicization of the bill, there are aspects of the legislation which he supported throughout the process: • The conference agreed to retain language backed by Congressman Bishop that put a hold on the Air Force's plan to retire 250 aircraft early, which would have resulted in the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill AFB losing a squadron of F-16s this coming year. • The final bill language includes military construction authorizations for projects at Utah military bases. • Members of the armed services and their families will receive an increase in funding for essential military benefits. • The F-35 program will receive full funding. "There are certainly good things in this conference agreement which I've supported all along," Bishop said. "Putting a pause on the proposed aircraft reduction plan is a good idea, as we shouldn't cut out planes without replacements ready to go and since this reduction would have negatively impacted Hill Air Force Base. And funds spent on military construction projects in Utah will be money well spent and helpful for our troops. Plus, I'm glad the bill backs full funding for the F-35 which we need to have to maintain air superiority." Even with these positive aspects in the legislation, Congressman Bishop, whose district includes most of Utah's military installations, found too many areas where the majority party had either hijacked the bill with outside, non-germane issues or had dropped the ball on other defense matters. The earlier House version of the defense legislation included a one-year expansion of concurrent receipt of military disability retired pay and veterans' disability compensation for our retired veterans, but this was dropped from the final bill. Bishop had also battled against a couple of provisions, which were included in the final bill, including a nearly $3 billion cut in missile defense promoted by the Obama Administration and the early termination of the F-22 fighter program. Bishop added, "The defense needs of our country are far too important to allow this legislation to be hijacked by the Democrat agenda. If the Democrats want to debate and vote on such a highly controversial social issue like hate crimes, they should do it on a stand-alone bill rather than sticking it in to this important defense bill at the last minute. Our troops deserve better than this and the American people deserve better than this."
10.07.2009	Today, during the Natural Resources Committee hearing on the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources Act of 2009. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), who serves as Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, requested that Secretary Salazar address the Department of Interior's actions that have destroyed or impaired thousands of domestic energy-related jobs and undermined efforts to reduce the United States' dependency on foreign oil. The CLEAR Act claims to create greater efficiencies, transparency and accountability in the development of federal energy resources. However, upon further examination, H.R. 3534 reveals that it actually discourages domestic energy production and creates yet another heavy layer of federal bureaucracy within the leasing programs by creating the new Office of Federal Energy and Minerals Leasing. "This legislation does nothing to create new jobs, except those jobs created within the new government offices. We need to be putting the 14.9 million unemployed Americans back to work. Instead, this administration is intent on creating more bureaucratic red tape that will lead to more systemic job loss. In Utah, the greatest bouts of recent unemployment aren't coming from economic factors, but are instead the direct result of decisions made by this administration to delete thousands of needed jobs," said Congressman Bishop. "Introduced under the guise of an energy bill, this Trojan horse does nothing to reduce our dependence on foreign energy. In fact, it discourages domestic production and takes a giant leap backwards in our goal to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. H.R. 3534 also creates an unnecessary Uranium Leasing Program that places additional hurdles in the way of uranium production. "Discouraging domestic uranium production further exacerbates the U.S.'s already excessive dependence on foreign uranium sources," Bishop added. Of the total uranium consumed in the U.S. each year, and despite abundant domestic supplies, the U.S. must import close to 90% from foreign sources to keep up with current demands. In addition to addressing concerns with the CLEAR Act, Congressman Bishop also took the opportunity to have Secretary Salazar address two unresolved and outstanding issues, including Secretary Salazar's decision to rescind 77 oil and gas leases that resulted in systemic job loss and business closures in Utah. Lastly, Congressman Bishop addressed the Department of Interior's unresponsiveness to document requests initially made seven months ago by Congressman Bishop and Senator Coburn. In an effort to mislead the American people by inferring that drilling will take place on land located within two Utah National Parks, Secretary Ken Salazar said during today's hearing that "We should not be drilling in the Arches National Park and Dinosaur National Park." The leases for oil and gas permits are not located "in" either national park, but rather on land adjacent to and out of site from both parks. "This is another example of Secretary Salazar and the Department of Interior facilitating the agenda of environmental activists. In fact, five environmental activist groups were so pleased by his recent policy decisions, they got together and took out a half-page ad in Politico* thanking him for everything he has done to help their cause. Whose interests is Secretary Salazar protecting? It sure isn't the millions of jobless Americans who would have benefited from the domestic energy jobs." Click here to view Congressman Bishop's questioning of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar * Ad appeared on 09-09-09 in POLITICO, page 17, Vol. 3 No. 115
10.07.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) released the following statement commemorating Constitution Day: "On this date 222 years ago, 39 of our founding fathers joined together at the culmination of the Constitutional Convention to sign the U.S. Constitution. As a body, our founding fathers agreed to the creation of a Constitutional republic, representative of the will of the people. "At the beginning of each Congress I take an oath to ‘support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic…' As a teacher, having taught history and civics for close to 30 years, I cannot help but feel we have gone astray from basic constitutional principles. I shudder to think what our founding fathers would say if they were here today. "One of the fundamental principles of the Constitution is that local governments are better suited to deal with local issues than a distant, out-of-touch federal government. State and local governments are closer to the people, more responsive to citizens, and better equipped for representing their constituents on many important issues. Recently, however, this tradition of constitutionally established local control has been seriously eroded due to usurpation of power by the federal government. "Under the 10th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, ‘The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.' Over the years, the federal government has whittled away at these States' rights through legislation and regulations. "Patrick Henry once said, ‘The Constitution is not an instrument for the government to restrain the people, it is an instrument for the people to restrain the government – lest it come to dominate our lives and interests.' "Our inspired Constitution has helped bring this nation to a position unrivaled in the last 200 years. It is enhanced by a Bill of Rights, whereby the rights and liberties of individuals and states are protected. "People today are not asking for an increase in the size of the federal government, for more massive federal spending, for more czars to control policy or for more programs to run their lives. I think people want to see a return to constitutional principles and a proper understanding of government. "Today, on the 222nd anniversary of the signing of the Constitution, we would do well to remember and recommit ourselves to the original intent of the Constitution – to devolve power and to protect individual liberties."
10.07.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) delivered the following remarks today on the Floor of the House of Representatives regarding the Santa Cruz National Heritage Act (H.R. 324). Following his statement emphasizing the need to incorporate new language that will protect the rights of private property owners and provide the Department of Homeland Security the authority needed to secure the boarder in heritage areas, Congressman Bishop's call for modifications to the legislation (click here to view Bishop's motion to recommit) passed with bi-partisan support. Click here to view Congressman Bishop's statement on the floor Congressman Bishop's Statement: I think a couple of the speakers have given what is one of the crux problems, not of this, the Santa Cruz National Heritage area, but of the overall issue itself. The Gentleman from Arizona does a good job in representing his constituents. He did say there are 49 heritage areas. There have been heritage areas for the last 25 years, and therein is the problem. When Moe Udall was chairman of that committee and Bruce Vento was subcommittee chairman, that's the first time this concept of a heritage area was introduced. The concept was going that this would be startup money and then the heritage areas would be on their own. Bruce Vento did say, "10 years and we are out of there." This was never supposed to be a 25-year program for any of these areas. The problem is that when the 10 years were up, we keep extending the time limit on these areas and we keep extending the life and giving more and more money to them. In fact, there is now a cottage industry that has developed a system of going out to the areas to train them on how they can become a heritage area… and stay a heritage area to get more and more funding. It violates the very concept of why heritage areas exist in the first place. This year alone we have added nine new heritage areas. This bill itself has $15 million, which is a 50% increase on what the majority of heritage areas do receive. The problem is very simple. This heritage area is trying to expand its tourism and other elements and other areas pay for it. So, if you're in tourist area "A" you are now being taxed and your money will go to promote tourism in area "B." And if that was simply a startup fund- simply to get them starting- none of us really have objections to that. But it isn't. It's becoming perpetual as we extend and extend and spend and spend more and more on these elements. This particular heritage area in front of us covers 3,300 square miles, private and public land. When republicans were in charge of this committee, as a standard we always included standards in heritage area legislation that gives property owners the ability to opt out of boundaries. It was compromised, it was weak, but at least it was there. What we're trying to say is that people should have a voice in what is done to them. People should be given choices and options, and we should not refrain from doing that. We should not have the government setting what the standard is… what the boundary is… what the requirements is… and there are instances when outside groups have tried to pressure local zoning entities because of these boundaries. It is not right that people should be locked inside a boundary oftentimes with little prior knowledge of what is actually happening because boundaries do have consequences. Otherwise, why have those boundaries? If these heritage areas are so innocuous, there is no reason to lock an owner in. Give them an opportunity to give them full information and then give them the choices of what they wish to do. That is how we should be treating individuals and property owners. This area is one that is heavily traveled with narcotic trafficking and human trafficking. Now… I appreciate the fact that the Gentleman from Arizona and the Rules Committee in a self-executing rule did give some modicum of protection on these areas. As late as last July, we attempted in the committee to try and put in language similar to this to give some protection on these areas- rejected not on a partisan vote because several on the opposite side did support us- but nonetheless rejected in committee. I am proud of Mr. Grijalva of including this language in this bill, but it could be better and that's the issue before us. Less than a week ago, the G.A.O. revealed that secure border initiatives are behind schedule, are years behind schedule because of environmental delays. That simply means there are people out there within the National Park Service that blame the border patrol for environmental damage. The Park Service's own admission is it takes six months to complete documents necessary to place critical border security technologies like observation towers. There's one tower that was stopped on these border areas until they could prove in some kind of scientific study that the Sonoran Pronghorn Deer would leave that area out of their own volition and not be scared by these towers. I'm sorry but that's ridiculous. But that's the reality of why we are here and the reality of what is happening. So there are some concerns with this area. The majority did put language in there to try and protect border security and the border areas, and I'm thankful for that and I applaud you for doing that. But you could have taken a big step further. This bill still needs -- you did put some language in there to try and protect personal property. But you could have gone further just simply to say people should have the choice and the option of what they are doing. and once again, we have the problem of heritage areas supposed to be temporary, supposed to be startup, staying year after year after year getting fund after fund after fund of public money from point "A" to fund the exact thing that is happening in point "B" in competition with point "A". We have to rethink this thing which is indeed what the Park Service asked us to do several years ago to not produce any more of these heritage areas until we come up with a comprehensive plan of how we are going to function with these heritage areas. Once again, the republic will not falter if this bill passes, but it could have been much, much better, and it could have done much more to protect not only our border security but also the rights of individuals than what we are doing here. Some good steps forward, I admit, but we have a long, long way to go. And once again we still have the problem of what to do with heritage areas that were supposed to be temporary and simply will not go away.
10.07.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) issued the following statement following the announcement that 550 workers at ATK received notices of job termination today. Many of those jobs were located at ATK's facilities at Promontory and Clearfield located in Utah's First Congressional District. "I think a large part of today's job losses can be connected to the Administration's poor decisions with missile defense and indecision with our space program. While ATK had anticipated some job reductions this year, few anticipated that the Obama Administration would abandon important missile defense and space programs that employed so many Utahns. I have adamantly opposed the Administration's unilateral decision to cut ground-based as well as developmental missile defense programs. These programs relied on solid-rocket boosters supplied by ATK. The lack of commitment by the President to a long-term viable space program, which relies on those same solid-rocket motors, is also hurting us in a big way. "The Obama Administration has the wrong defense and spending priorities. I find it hard for the President to justify the priorities of spending a trillion dollars on bailouts, buyouts and handouts, but felt it was essential to gut missile defense at the very moment when the United States and its allies are facing increasing missile threats from such rogue nations as Iran and North Korea. And when it comes to NASA funding, a $3 billion commitment to space exploration would preserve thousands of jobs and be a lot better than the $5 billion given to ACORN. "The Department of Defense must establish a long-term funding commitment for the Minuteman III industrial base to ensure that the nation does not lose its only domestic capability to produce large-scale Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) motors into the future. The Department of Defense and the Administration have not moved forward with a consistent multi-year funding plan that would help provide more job certainty to those individuals working on that program. "While some may disagree with our nation's missile defense and space programs, the fact is that our nation is significantly weakened without them. Furthermore, Utah's economy and growing joblessness will be further imperiled by the Administration's decisions."
10.07.2009	A lengthy investigation conducted by the Interior inspector general (IG) regarding improper lobbying activities involving National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) employees and environmental advocacy organizations conclusively determined that DOI employees did in fact violate federal anti-lobbying policies. The details of the investigation are included in a report obtained by Congressman Bishop's office today. [view report] Congressman Rob Bishop issued the following response regarding the findings of the DOI investigation: "Using government employee time, effort, and money to lobby to expand government is simply wrong. The ongoing, explicit, far-reaching coordination between special interest lobbying groups and NLCS staff revealed in this report is troubling. Reading case after case of lobbyists outsourcing their work to federal employees is unsettling. This inappropriate meddling of private and public lobbying efforts is precisely the sort of thing I warned against before the NLCS legislation was rushed through Congress. The American people deserve to know that government employees, paid for by their hard earned tax dollars, are not engaged in lobbying, not playing favorites and not being co-opted by interest groups. In most cases I believe this is true. However, in this specific instance, certain government officials clearly fell far short." The following timeline chronicles the events leading up to the inspector general's conclusive determination that DOI employees engaged in unlawful lobbying activities: July 17, 2008: Congressman Bishop, the ranking Republican on the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, requested documents and correspondence between NLCS employees and lobbying organizations. September 5, 2008: Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Henry Bisson files an official complaint with the Interior inspector general. Mid-September 2008: Congressman Bishop obtains documents on a rolling basis showing extensive communications and coordination between top NLSC officials and lobbyists for environmental groups. September 18, 2008-March 2009: After a review of the requested documents, Congressman Bishop made numerous requests that all legislative efforts to make the NLCS a permanent federal agency be brought to a halt until a comprehensive investigation of NLCS employees could be conducted. March 25, 2009: Leaders in Congress ignored Congressman Bishop's warning that legislation codifying the NLCS was tainted by illegal lobbying activities. This legislation was passed as part of the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009. October 2, 2009: Department of Interior releases inspector general report finding DOI employees guilty of lobbying misconduct. Recently, Congressman Bishop has made numerous other requests to the Department of Interior regarding communication between the National Parks Service and the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). Those requests are still pending. "In light of the findings included in this report, I hope the DOI will complete outstanding documents requests to address specific concerns regarding the National Parks Service and outside organizations," Congressman Bishop concluded. The National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS), created by proclamation during the Clinton Administration, covers 26 million acres of federal lands administered by the Department of Interior and U.S. Department of Agriculture, including National Monuments, National Conservation Areas, Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas, Wild and Scenic Rivers, and National Scenic and Historic Trails. The vast majority of these lands are located in 12 Western states.
10.07.2009	Today, the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public lands held a hearing on legislation introduced by Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) that would designate over nine million acres of wilderness in the state of Utah (H.R. 1925). Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), the entire Utah delegation and state and local leaders note that past efforts to designate wilderness included a key component lacking with H.R. 1925- local support. "This particular bill is a relic of the past and has not been successful since the age of disco. It will not be successful now or in the future," Bishop said today during the hearing. BISHOP'S STATEMENT: I recognize we will consider several bills in the committee today. Let me specifically talk about one bill that has unique impact for those of us from the state of Utah. One of the things that will be presented here is the concept of land use. This is not an either or supposition and it is not either we have wilderness or we have degradation of the land. All of the land being considered is already public land and has a form of protection with it. That is currently being done by professionals on the field. The 1st slide up here gives you an idea of why this bill comes as significant interest to the state of Utah. Everything that is colored is owned by the federal government, which means that 67% of my state is owned by the federal government. That produces certain concepts and certain issues that we will always be dealing with. The reason I am chairman of the Western Caucus, if for no other reason, is because of the abundant land owned by the federal government. And if you even go to the larger one which is the third one, which is looking at the entire nation, you will see that once again, the land that is in red and in color is land that is owned by the federal government. (See related document: National Federal Land) It seems to be disproportionate if you look at the map in where it has to be generated…there are 653 million acres of land owned by the federal government. One in every three acres is owned by the federal government and 90% of that land is congregated in the west, where one in every two acres is owned by the federal government except in states like Utah where that percentage is even higher. Utah is larger than most of the New England states put together. And in the state of Utah we have 8 million acres of forest service land, 3 million acres of park service land, 24 million acres of BLM land, 9 million acres of state land, and 10 million acres are owned by the private sector. We now want to create 9 million acres of wilderness? That means that 18% of Utah has to support the rest of the state. That is almost an analogist of NY City, which is supposed to provide all the services to those cities only by generating money that can come from taxes from Staten Island. This is one of the reasons why Utah has a significant interest in this bill and why you will find the Utah delegation is united in opposition to this particular form and process in this bill. Looking to the other slides, the 1st one is the infamous blue map. The blue map plots the amount of federal acreage in every state in the nation. (See related document: Federal Land (Blue Map)) The states in red are the ones that have the most difficult time funding their public education. You will notice there is almost a one to one correlation between public lands states and the inability to fund public legislation. One of the problems I have with this bill is that every state in the west was promised elements that would help their public education funding. None of those promises were fulfilled. It is one of those simple situations that whenever you make changes to public lands in Utah, there is collateral damage, and the collateral damage hits kids. My kids' education was put in danger when 77 leases were pulled unilaterally in the state of Utah. Not only did it make the Uintah basin unemployment go from 1.5% to 8% overnight, it sterilized other lands not part of those leases. And it also inhibited the ability to fund education in the state of Utah. If my kids are going to receive a decent education in the state of Utah, my state has to have a balanced economy, which includes the development of manufacturing and a mining base to go along with tourism because tourism alone is not enough. Utah State University did a study on the impact of wilderness- the only conclusive study that exists. As they found that there are numerous impacts that are not quantifiable, the economic benefit from wilderness recreation appears to be inconsequential and may likely be more than offset by losses associated with declining activities incompatible with wilderness. They went on further to say that the research concluded that some in communities will be severely impacted by wilderness designation and the wilderness designation can severely impede economic development in some areas of the state. The economy, I'll state, is not uniformly impacted, but it has impacts, which is why I would like to make a motion of unanimous consent that a letter from the Utah State Board of Education be inserted into the record to state their opposition to this legislation. That the National Education Association letter of opposition be inserted into the record as well as a letter from the Governor of Utah … a resolution from the State Legislature, a letter from the state legislative leaders, a letter from the 15 counties impacted by this proposal, and a resolution from the National Association of Counties (NACO)-all who are opposed as well. I'd like them all to be included in the official record. I have four concerns with this legislation- the impact it has on the state of Utah, the impact it has on public education, the process of this particular bill - this bill produced without a map so we know exactly where they want to designate wilderness, has had some research done and is now called the Red Rocks Bill with the association that there is beautiful scenery out there that needs to be protected- there is, but that is not what these 9 million acres would be. Now remember, wilderness by definition has to be land that is not traveled by human nature- this land [pointing to a picture] would be part of the red rock wilderness bill. This as you will notice are some of the areas that would be included in the inventory even though the bill is not specific that to get to 9 million acres to have to that, and of course on the bottom, that is not a man made institution, that came here by nature. If you look back up there again, you will see the road that goes through that area was made by some glacier during the Jurassic period. I'm kidding- because man wouldn't put that there. This is part of the red rock scenery, though I don't imagine it will make it on to calendars that you want to sell but I am sure would have someone from back east wanting to backpack through those particular areas- there are beautiful pristine areas in Utah that need to be protected, I agree, but this bill goes far, far beyond that. Embedded in the 9 million acres are acres of storages that are natural gas, oil and mining areas all of which have an impact on the economies of those particular areas. The problem with this bill is that the maps are not there and the homework has not been done. This bill undoes the Washington County bill, the Cedar Mountain bill and everything we have done in the state of Utah to make progress would be undone by the sloppy craftsmanship of this bill and the processes involved. When we did the Cedar Mountain Wilderness bill we did an inventory of every private property that was there. We moved the lines to meet the needs of private property holders. We had one private property owner who had pipes along the wilderness areas and we moved the lines because we had professionals on the ground working with us to accommodate the order and ensure we had the lines where they needed to be. There have been over 100 bills in the past few years that have passed. All of them had the same pattern- small bills in which you have local consensus with local people coming together. None of that is happening with this bill. Our goal should be to empower people not make mandatory solutions. This particular bill is a relic of the past and has not been successful since the age of disco. It will not be successful now or in the future. We should not be spending our time on this but instead on finding proper solutions that will pass. (To watch Congressman Bishop's statement, follow the link: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnheOpsEgjs)
10.07.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) has been appointed a conferee to the National Defense Authorization Conference Committee. As a House conferee, Bishop will assist in leading negotiations with the U.S. Senate to determine the final outcome of the FY '10 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This will be Congressman Bishop's first appointment as a conferee on the Defense Authorization Conference Committee. "I am pleased to have been selected to serve as a conferee on the defense bill, which acutely impacts Utah's economy as well as the current and long-term security of the United States," said Congressman Bishop. "As a conferee, I will work first and foremost to help ensure that the final bill prioritizes the interests of our nation's servicemen and women and their families. I will also work to ensure that our armed services remain strong, capable and ready to counter threats posed to our national security, particularly in the areas of missile defense and airpower." Utah's First Congressional District includes nearly all of the major Utah defense installations, including Hill Air Force Base, Tooele Army Depot and U.S. Army Dugway Proving Grounds. As a conferee, Bishop will provide critical insight regarding the anticipated impact that the DAA may have on the state of Utah. Specifically: ¨ Cuts in Missile Defense programs, which will lead to a significant loss of jobs throughout Utah. ¨ Anticipated inclusion of language that would create an aircraft drawdown plan by the Air Force. Collateral damage from this new language would include eliminating one squadron of F-16s at Hill AFB at the 388th Fighter Wing. ¨ Continued funding for the F-35 jet fighter, as well as whether or not funding will be provided for a second engine provider for the aircraft.
09.16.2009	Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands and Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) addressed today's announcement that Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ken Salazar will implement a two-year "Time Out" on new mining claims and withdrawal of over 1 million acres of land located near the Grand Canyon National Park. "Today's announcement ignores clear congressional direction and oversight and belies this Administration's commitment to transparency and property rights. This is a terrible executive decision that will cost jobs, hurt our economy and make us less energy independent," said Congressman Bishop. "By essentially locking up America's best uranium resource, we are cutting the legs out from under our domestic nuclear power industry. The mining of these vital minerals, which occurs on an area of land adjacent to, not within, the national park, is done with the utmost safety for residents and visitors of the Grand Canyon and surrounding communities." Last March, Congressman Rob Bishop, House Republican Leader John Boehner as well as nine other Republican members sent a letter to Secretary Salazar requesting answers to the following questions before any action is taken to block access to uranium: 1. How much uranium is contained in these lands and what percent of our domestic high grade uranium is found there; 2. How much energy can be created if these deposits were to be extracted; 3. What effect would this have on the American energy consumer; 4. How much uranium is domestically mined and from what foreign sources do we depend on to meet our uranium needs; 5. How close are these deposits to the Grand Canyon itself and to the Park boundary and; 6. Using best practices, what effect extraction of these uranium deposits would have on the preservation of the Grand Canyon. Secretary Salazar never responded to the letter. Secretary Salazar's actions are disingenuous at best. He has made it very clear that he places the priorities of environmental extremists over those of the American people," Bishop added. Studies conducted on the sections of land included in Secretary Salazar's withdrawal are said to contain approximately 40% of our nation's domestic uranium deposits. U.S. nuclear plants consume about 60 million pounds of uranium fuel per year. Currently, the United States imports close to 90% of the total uranium consumption. "This administration's cabinet members need to synchronize priorities. In one department Secretary Chu is noting the importance of Nuclear Energy, yet in another, Secretary Salazar is suffocating the industry by cutting off access to our largest domestic uranium supply, thereby increasing our dependence on foreign supplies," Bishop concluded. "Furthermore, today's unilateral actions completely disregard the 1984 Arizona Wilderness Act, whereby industry leaders, environmental groups and lawmakers came to an agreement that would provide responsible stewardship of the land as well as access to vital mineral deposits." "I think that nuclear energy should be a part of our energy portfolio in the United States this century. It's carbon-free"- Secretary Chu, March 10, 2009 Vs. "I am calling a two-year ‘Time-Out' from all new mining claims in the Arizona Strip near the Grand Canyon."- Secretary Salazar, July 20, 2009 Experts determined that today's decision will result in a loss of over 2000 potential jobs for residents of Arizona and southern Utah. Attachment: Letter from Congressman Rob Bishop and Republican members to Secretary Salazar. -30-
08.27.2009	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) announced that more than 100 acres of federally owned and managed land, commonly known as White Acre and Gambel Oak, have been transferred to Park City. Congressman Bishop and Senator Orrin Hatch successfully secured the land transfer in the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009. "The official conveyance concludes a long and successful journey to place these lands in the hands of the citizens of Park City, who want this preserved as open space," said Congressman Bishop. "This transfer is the result of years of dedication from Park City's local leaders and interested parties. Their efforts will assist in ensuring that Park City can control and maintain these areas for the long-term benefit of the community." Over 30 years ago, the BLM conducted a study of lands throughout the Park City area that identified parcels of land suitable for transfer to other entities. Among those identified were the parcels commonly known as White Acre and Gambel Oak. "The Gambel Oak and White Acre parcels are highly prized by the people of Park City. The transfer of these parcels from the BLM to Park City Municipal Corporation could not have happened without the sustained efforts and support of Congressman Bishop and Senator Hatch. We sincerely appreciate their advocacy on behalf of Park City including Congressman Bishop's sponsorship of the legislation that facilitated the preservation of this significant open space. These parcels will be preserved in perpetuity and represent an important addition to the nearly 7,000 acres of open space in Park City," said Park City Mayor Dana Williams. This conveyance of more than 100 acres of federally owned and managed lands to the City of Park City will ensure the preservation of undeveloped open space for both wildlife habitat and recreation.
08.14.2009	Below is a list of the initial town hall meetings Congressman Rob Bishop has scheduled in Utah's First Congressional district during the month of August - continuing his trend of hosting dozens of these meetings each year. He will also be conducting a series of telephone town halls in the next month or so to enable contact and constructive discussions with constituents in every county and corner of the district.Wednesday, August 19 7:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. Layton City Council Chambers 437 N. Wasatch Drive Layton Thursday, August 20 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Grantsville City Hall 429 East Main Street Grantsville Wednesday, August 26 7:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. Hyrum City Building 83 West Main Street Hyrum Thursday, August 27 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Morgan High School 55 North 200 East Morgan Thursday, August 27 8:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. Weber County Commission Chambers 2380 Washington Blvd Ogden
07.28.2009	This Thursday, July 30, 2009 House and Senate Western Caucus members will hold a historic bicameral hearing on cap and trade. With President Obama's original deadline just days away, and as the Senate continues to become further entangled in the complex web of cap and trade's costly regulations and mandates, this hearing will feature policy experts and key stakeholders who will examine the specific economic impact cap and trade policies are likely to have on the West and the nation. WHO: House and Senate Western Caucus members, policy experts and stakeholders WHAT: Bicameral hearing on Cap & Trade: Impact on Jobs in the West & the Nation. WHERE: Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 406 DATE: Thursday, July 30, 2009 TIME: 1:00 p.m.- 3:00 p.m. EDT Confirmed Witnesses Dick Armey Chairman, FreedomWorks Harry Alford President and CEO of the National Black Chamber of Commerce Bill Kovacs Senior Vice President of the Environment, Technology & Regulatory Division at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Kimball Rasmussen CEO, Deseret Power Jim Magagna Executive Vice President, Wyoming Stock Growers Association Phil Kerpen Director of Policy, Americans for Prosperity Ben Lieberman Senior Policy Analyst for Energy & Environment, Heritage Foundation Note: This event is open to all media as well as the general public. -30-
07.15.2009	Today, House Democrats including Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD.), and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA), were congratulated during an Oval Office visit by President Obama for their efforts to reach what he called "comprehensive energy reform." "I want to take a moment, before I start talking about health care, just to congratulate Chairman [Henry] Waxman and the Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats, who've made such extraordinary progress in reaching a deal on comprehensive energy reform and climate legislation," President Obama told reporters at the White House. (E&E News, Greenwire, May 13, 2009) In response to the president's congratulatory remarks, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) noted the costly impact that Democrat policies will have on the country's efforts to recover from a downtrodden economy. "Cap and trade will stifle economic growth, eliminate jobs, and further burden an already weakened economy. Those are hardly accomplishments over which to be congratulated. If anything, the Democrats should offer an apology to the American families who will have no choice but to fork out thousands of extra dollars each year to keep their lights on," Bishop stated. Congressman Bishop, Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, is the lead sponsor of the American Energy Innovation Act (H.R. 2300). This legislation, introduced by the Western Caucus and the Republican Study Committee (RSC), offers a competing vision for America's energy future through incentives that will increase production, conservation, and innovation. "Virtually everyone who has looked at the proposal, including Democrats, admit that jobs will be sacrificed at the expense of increased taxes and environmental regulations mandated in cap and trade legislation. The only question is how many. I fail to see how increasing taxes and destroying good-paying jobs during a time of economic hardship will move this country forward," Bishop added. "Furthermore, what the President, and Nancy Pelosi and friends fail to realize is that you cannot mandate innovation. The greatest inventions in American history were not born out of government mandate, rather through the ingenuity and the industrious American spirit," Bishop concluded. With no price tag to the consumer, H.R. 2300 provides a fiscally responsible approach to greater domestic energy independence and economic stimulus. Through increased nuclear production and incentivized renewable technologies, the American Energy Innovation Act delivers both job creation and environmental stewardship.
07.15.2009	Today, members of the Congressional Western Caucus met with Professor Gabriel Calzada, author of a study on Spain's "green job" creation efforts, to address proven flaws in what Democratic lawmakers and President Barack Obama are calling a "model" for U.S. "green job" creation. Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Rep. George Radanovich (CA-19), Rep. Glenn Thompson (PA-05), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05) and Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-at large) joined with Dr. Calzada at a roundtable discussion to review the results of his study which found that nine out of ten "green jobs" created by Spain over the past decade are no longer in existence today and for every one renewable job financed by the government, more than two were lost. "In today's economy, where many families are struggling to simply make ends meet, it is nonsensical to "create" one job at the expense of two others," said Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01). "Instead of the government robbing Peter to pay Paul, immediate efforts must be focused toward viable long-term solutions that stimulate market driven job creation." Many Democrats are justifying their efforts to implement massive cap-and-tax proposals with the assertion that "green jobs" can be created to improve environmental quality while reducing unemployment. Dr. Calzada's study, along with others, has conclusively shown that this will result in an overall loss of jobs rather than a gain. "So-called green jobs in Spain are more myth than reality. Since 2000, Spain spent $774,000 to create each ‘green job,' including subsidies of more than $1.3 million per wind industry job. It found that creating those jobs resulted in the destruction of nearly 113,000 jobs elsewhere in the economy, or 2.2 jobs destroyed for every ‘green job.' While I am not opposed to pursuing alternative energy sources, we must know the facts before jumping headlong into an unsustainable energy policy," Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05) stated. It is estimated that cap-and-tax proposals would lead to over three million net jobs lost by 2025, even after factoring in any new "green jobs" created in the renewable energy sector. "While I am strongly in favor of diversifying our energy portfolio and increasing our renewable sources, we have to be realistic about how we go about this," said Rep. Glenn Thompson, (PA-05). "Dr. Calzada said Spain's jobless rate is at 17.4 percent as solar and wind industries lose thousands of jobs. That is not what we want for this country."
07.15.2009	The American Energy Innovation Act (H.R. 2300), introduced by the Congressional Western Caucus and the Republican Study Committee (RSC), received two key endorsements this week from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) and Americans for Tax Reform (ATR). The American Energy Innovation Act offers an "all you can create" approach to energy innovation, production and conservation. Unlike the Democrat cap and tax policy, H.R. 2300 places no additional tax burden on American energy consumers and provides incentives rather than mandates for innovative clean energy technologies. "Throughout American history we have not relied on government mandated innovation, which cap and tax will impose. The best way to spur innovation is to tap into the greatest resource our county has: the American people," Western Caucus Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) stated. "The greatest inventions in the history of our country, including current renewable energy technology, came from industrious and entrepreneurial Americans empowered by success, not government mandates." Recognizing the positive economic stimulus provided within the American Energy Innovation Act, Americans for Tax Reform stated in their endorsement that, "The American Energy Innovation Act enhances U.S. national security in two ways: reducing American dependency on foreign fuel and creating millions of jobs over the next few decades. Some in Congress want to issue new taxes on American energy output, but this Act offers more optimistic solutions that will ignite the best ingenuity using free market approaches." "This legislation provides a common sense approach to how we as a country move forward in addressing our energy and environmental needs. Unlike cap and tax policy, this bill does not classify winners or losers. Instead, it provides incentives for all Americans to take on today's challenges with rewards for ingenuity and innovation," Bishop added. The Council for Citizens again Government Waste also announced their support for H.R. 2300, which will "spur American ingenuity and foster market-based approaches to America's energy needs." Emphasizing the detrimental effect that cap and tax legislation will have on the U.S. economy, CCAGW noted that, "[President Obama's] plan will involve massive new taxes on American energy and economic output. As a more fiscally sustainable alternative, H.R. 2300 offers policies that facilitate the production of traditional resources, as well as support the rapid development of market-based alternative energy sources and technologies."
07.15.2009	This week, 50 Members of Congress submitted 105 amendments to the House Rules Committee on the House Interior Appropriations bill (H.R. 2996) to bring greater efficiency to the use of taxpayer dollars by the Department of Interior. Forty-five of the 105 amendments were offered by Members of the Congressional Western Caucus. "I am deeply discouraged by the actions of those on House Rules Committee who placed partisan priorities over those of the people and the West," said Western Caucus Chairman Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT). "Instead of providing consideration for the many common-sense and responsible amendments submitted by members of both parties, many of which will save countless taxpayer dollars, the Democrat-led Rules Committee instead chose to disregard them, making way for a bill laden with many wasteful projects and reckless spending increases." In an effort to fast track targeted legislation through Congress this week, the Democrat-led House Rules Committee continued their unprecedented and arbitrary practice of limiting amendments on appropriation bills, approving a mere 13 of the 105 amendments offered. "For the sake of the institution of Congress, I am troubled at how blatantly Democrats are running roughshod over precedent in order to shut Republicans out of the process and dramatically increase government spending," Bishop added. "With 90% of all federal lands located in the West, shutting western voices out of the debate and unreasonably limiting amendment opportunities will not lead to good policy. Bad process leads to bad policy. This is setting a dangerous precedent."
07.15.2009	Today, Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) voted NO on H.R. 2997, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2010, which provides an increase in funding of $2.4 billion, nearly 12% over last year. "At a time when unemployment is reaching 10% and Americans are looking for every possible way to save their hard earned tax dollars, Democrats seem just as intent on finding new ways to spend them," said Congressman Rob Bishop. H.R. 2997 includes significant increases in funding for several programs that, upon evaluation, should have been reduced, providing savings for millions of taxpayer dollars. For example, the 2008 Supplemental Appropriations Act provided the Food and Drug Administration with $150 million to begin hiring staff to meet the increased challenges posed by food-borne illnesses. As of July 2009, only $2 million had been utilized. In an effort to hastily spend the taxpayer dollars before the funds expired, the FDA purchased equipment instead of applying the funding for its original purpose. H.R. 2997 provides that same program with an increase of $300 million. "At a time when Democrats should be reevaluating the necessity of many of these programs, and looking for new and innovative ways to save money, they are instead taking millions of taxpayer dollars and dumping them into programs that are already overfunded," Bishop concluded. In total, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2010 provides a total of $22.9 billion in funding for FY 2010.
07.15.2009	Members of the Senate and Congressional Western Caucuses are scheduled to present the Clean, Affordable and Reliable Energy Act (CARE Act) tomorrow, June 24, during their first bicameral press conference. The CARE Act takes and "all of the above" approach to address today's energy demands. WHO: SWC Chairman, Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY.), Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ.), Sen. Orrin Hatch(R-UT.), Sen Robert Bennett (R-UT.) & CWC Chairman, Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) WHAT: Senate Western Caucus members to unveil the CARE Act & Introduce the Senate Western Caucus DATE: Wednesday, June 24, 2009 TIME: 11:00 a.m. EST LOCATION: S-325 The Senate and Congressional Western Caucuses are comprised of Senators and Representatives from Western and rural states who are committed to upholding the fundamental principles of the West.
07.08.2009	Bishop Signs Responsible Healthcare Reform Pledge Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01) joined fellow Republican colleagues in signing the "Responsible Healthcare Reform Pledge," vowing not to vote to enact any healthcare reform package that he has not personally read in its entirety and that has not been available in its entirety to the American people on the internet for at least 72 hours. "To support a dramatic overhaul of our nations healthcare system without fully analyzing the policies within the package would be irresponsible and reckless. I encourage every member of congress to join me in pledging to provide the American people with the assurance that as we move forward determining the fate of their healthcare, we do so openly and collectively, having fully reviewed every important aspect of the legislation."- Congressman Rob Bishop
06.26.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) released the following statement this evening after voting NO on the Cap and Trade legislation: "This bill is plain and simple a national energy tax, it will hurt our economy, kill jobs, and raise costs for all of us. President Obama, when he was a candidate, actually described this bill best when he said that under his plan ‘electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.' The goal of this bill is to intentionally raise utility costs. It represents the largest tax increase in American history and is a massive increase in government interference and mandates on our lives and communities. The money raised by this bill won't go towards a cleaner environment; it will pay for government expansion and these new programs." "The majority dropped a 300 page amendment into this bill at 3:00 AM this morning. It includes two placeholders that allow two House committees to go back and change the bill after we've voted. That kind of terrible stunt clearly shows this bill is not ready for passage and the majority has no clue what they're doing." "I support a cleaner, cheaper, safer alternative that includes more affordable energy, more jobs, and a cleaner environment. My ‘all of the above' energy bill develops more of our domestic resources and invests in renewable and alternative energy sources, all while offering incentives for better efficiency and conservation." ##
06.25.2009	Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) introduced legislation, co-sponsored by Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), that would force the Census Bureau to allow for Americans living overseas to be counted in the decennial census. The issue has a direct impact on Utah as the state narrowly missed receiving an additional Congressional seat after the last census, due to the Bureau's refusal to count Mormon missionaries living abroad. "The Census Bureau could fix this problem right now and count Americans abroad, but they refuse to and are sitting on their hands until Congress makes them do this," Congressman Bishop said. "It seems there is no other solution other than mandating that the Census Bureau change their policy immediately." Backers of this new legislation argue that the Bishop bill gives the Census Bureau the guidance and mandate it has previously lacked. The legislation instructs the Census Bureau to allow for the voluntary enumeration of private, overseas Americans in two ways. The first is through the use of verifiable, administrative records voluntarily submitted by an organization with members who are Americans living overseas. The second method would be by means of an international "Be Counted" form available at all U.S. embassies. "The government is spending millions to make sure we are counting illegal immigrants. You can't tell me that we don't have the same responsibility to U.S. citizens living abroad," said Congressman Chaffetz. Currently, the Census Bureau refuses to count Americans temporarily living abroad unless they are affiliated with the federal government. For apportionment of Congressional seats, this policy hurts states which have a large number of residents living overseas but not affiliated with the federal government, and it gives unfair advantage to the states who have a large number of residents living overseas who are affiliated with the federal government, like state department employees and their dependents, members of the military, and the crews of merchant vessels. "The existing policy hurt the state of Utah in the 2000 Census," said Bishop. "Had the Census Bureau treated all Americans – and not just those working for the federal government – equally, Utah would have received the extra Congressional seat. So the bottom line here is about fairness and forcing the Bureau to fix this problem immediately." This disparate treatment has not always been the federal government's policy. Since 1830, the Census Bureau has at various times enumerated private U.S. citizens living overseas. In the 1960 and 1970 censuses, the Census Bureau allowed for the voluntary reporting of private U.S. citizens living abroad for an extended period and not affiliated with the Federal Government. In the three decennial censuses since then, the Census Bureau has only counted Federal employees, their dependents, and the crews of merchant vessels living overseas. The Census Bureau has done feasibility studies showing the challenges of trying to enumerate private U.S. citizens living abroad, but Bishop is quick to point out that those studies were based on attempts to enumerate all private Americans living abroad, not just allow for an option to count those who wish to be counted. The northern Utah lawmaker has repeatedly pushed the Bureau over the last few years to use administrative authority to change the policy, and count overseas Americans, but no positive responses were received. The Government Accountability Office reviewed the Census studies and concluded that legislation would be needed if Congress wished the Bureau to count private Americans living abroad. The Bishop legislation represents that Congressional mandate to force the Census Bureau to allow for these citizens to be counted. ##
06.19.2009	Early Wednesday morning, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) scored some significant victories for Utah's military installations and personnel as the House Armed Services Committee debated and passed its version of the annual Defense Authorization Bill. Bishop successfully added an amendment to the legislation to extend production of the F-22 fighter jet, which the Administration had slated for termination, and he helped put a hold on plans to reduce by 250 the overall number of planes in the Air Force. On a vote of 31-30, the Committee narrowly adopted the Bishop amendment that will protect F-22 production and ensures the Department of Defense maintains these advanced construction capabilities. The Bishop language shifts $369 million to fund long lead procurement items for 12 additional F-22 aircraft, enabling the Air Force to eventually go from 187 to 199 jets. "While we should be funding even more planes, this at least helps head off a proposal to basically shut down the F-22 construction program," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes Hill Air Force Base and most of Utah's military installations, added, "This amendment will save jobs and get the Air Force more of what they want and need, but most importantly it will help provide for the defense of the country." The other legislative victory with an impact on Utah involved plans announced earlier by the Administration to cut 250 existing planes out of the Air Force fleet. This reduction in aircraft would have directly impacted Hill Air Force Base. The Defense bill now includes language, backed by Representative Bishop and other Members of Congress, to place a one-year "freeze" on this aircraft reduction plan, thus helping to protect the three full squadrons of F-16s that make up the 388th and 419th Fighter Wings at Hill. The language also requires the Air Force to adequately justify the fighter drawdown plan through empirical analysis which has not previously been provided. The Defense Bill also includes report language authored by the First District Congressman which requires the Air Force to develop a long-term Minuteman III "warm line" sustainment plan and to report to Congress on the number of boosters required to sustain the industrial base. In addition to the policy wins, the legislation contains a handful of projects for Utah's military installations, including: $5.1 million for Modifications to the Taxiway Apron area of Hill Air Force Base's main runway, making it safer and allowing more efficient flight operations. $3.4 Million in Army R&D Funding for Tooele Army Depot to conduct the Propellant Conversion to Fertilizer Program in Conventional Ammunition Demil operations. $5.2 million for Repair Technology Insertion Program (RepTip) for Ogden Air Logistics Center. Funding will be used to identify, develop and qualify repair and overhaul technologies that increase the productivity of the workforce at the 309th Maintenance Wing, Ogden ALC. $5.5 million for UAV Sensor and Maintenance Development Center, Ogden Air Logistics Center. This will fund a collaborative effort between Ogden ALC and the Space Dynamics Laboratory at Utah State University to bring R&D calibration and integration of sensors on UAV platforms into the Ogden ALC, which will help Ogden ALC attract future missions involving UAV development and sustainment. Congressman Bishop was also heavily involved in efforts in the Committee to block proposed cuts to missile defense, but those attempts failed. The Defense Authorization bill now heads to the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration and passage. ###
06.11.2009	Washington,D.C. –Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-1) issued the following statement in response to a report released today by the Department of Interior detailing Secretary Salazar's plans to prevent the reinstatement of oil and gas leases scrapped during his first weeks as Secretary. "Today's report, like the initial decision back in February, is based purely on politics. Once again, Secretary Salazar has demonstrated that taking orders from environmental special interest groups is more important than making decision based on facts. "While the report tries to take the tone of moderation, it actually throws dedicated Bureau of Land Management (BLM) employees under the bus and continues to perpetuate inaccuracies about the seven-year comprehensive, open and public land management planning process. "Worst of all, this decision destroys and imperils hundreds of jobs in my state and directly harms the schoolchildren of Utah. "This is simply unacceptable. The Secretary of Interior has failed. We need a new approach towards a comprehensive energy policy if we really want this country to turn the corner on job creation and a flourishing American economy. "Unfortunately, Utahans do not have the luxury of waiting for Washington to change its policies. "I will continue doing everything in my power to fight for the hundreds of people who are harmed by Secretary Salazar and the politically motivated, wrong-headed, energy decisions emerging from this Administration." -30-
06.10.2009	DC—Today, Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-1) announced his support for the American Energy Act, which will provide Americans with an additional alternative to the Democrats' national energy tax proposal. Bishop, an original cosponsor of the legislation, released the following statement: "The Democrat cap and trade proposal is on a fast-track to derail our nation's domestic energy production capabilities. At a time when we are seeing systemic job loss and rising fuel costs, Democrats are ushering a national energy tax through congress that will decrease our national energy supply, increase energy costs for every household, stifle job creation and indefinitely delay domestic energy independence. These policies are counterintuitive and will not resolve our energy or economic needs. "Much like the American Energy Innovation Act, this legislation proposes realistic options that will encourage production of our domestic resources in an environmentally and economically friendly manner. I hope Democrats will consider this fiscally responsible alternative and recognize that the American people cannot afford to act as the personal bankroll for the Democrat agenda."
05.20.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Rob Bishop (R-UT), Ranking Member of the National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee, praised the passage of legislation that will restore Second Amendment rights on federal lands. Congressman Bishop was the original pioneer of efforts to reverse outdated laws that prevent individuals complying with federal and state laws from exercising their right to carry a concealed firearm while visiting national parks and wildlife refuges. Since October of 2007, Bishop consistently offered amendments on numerous bills, both in Committee and on the House floor, to restore these Second Amendment rights. "I am thankful that my Democrat colleagues recognize the importance of this legislation, which rectifies incongruous federal law that was confusing and complicated for citizens residing in states that permit concealed firearms and allow open carry," said Congressman Bishop. "Law-abiding citizens will now have the ability to travel freely across national park lands without being subject to outdated federal laws that only served to victimize those exercising their second amendment right to carry." Over the last 30 years, a significant number of states have passed laws allowing citizens to legally carry concealed firearms. The Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) have long been governed by state gun laws without problem. However, the National Park Service (NPS) failed to recognize the second amendment laws and for years banned firearms on NPS land. Senator Coburn's amendment to H.R. 627 will provide continuity between the state and federal laws. Specifically, this legislation ensures that unelected bureaucrats and judges cannot override the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens on National Park System and Fish and Wildlife land in states permitting concealed firearms. "As I have stated before, the real victor of today's legislation is citizens like Damon Gettier, a businessman, Army veteran and concealed weapons permit holder under Virginia law, who was convicted of violating Park Service gun restrictions. The Blue Ridge Parkway, widely used as a highway in Virginia, also serves as a scenic overlook in the Shenandoah National Park. Some of the most heavily traveled roads in Virginia, such as the George Washington Parkway, are managed by the Park Service. In fact, it would take a lot of careful planning to drive through the Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. without crossing a Park Service road. No signs warn drivers, and given the volume of traffic on these roads, the regulations were essentially unenforceable except for an unlucky few. To show just how unjust the situation is, the federal judge in front of whom Mr. Gettierappeared, confessed that he himself had no idea it was unlawful to have a firearm in his car in a National Park and he himself had broken the law several times. Nevertheless, Mr. Gettierwas penalized," Bishop added. -30-
05.12.2009	Today, Members of the Congressional Western Caucus and the Republican Study Committee (RSC) introduced the American Energy Innovation Act (H.R. 2300). Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Western Caucus, is the lead sponsor of the bill. The legislation represents a competing vision for America's energy future in contrast to the Cap and Tax mandates endorsed by Democrat lawmakers. "In this bill, Republicans provide a competing vision that emphasizes job growth, innovation, conservation, production and incentives to support true American ingenuity," said Rep. Bishop. "Americans need to know that they do not have to settle for fewer jobs and higher energy costs as a result of Cap and Tax. This bill will create jobs, reduce the deficit, and provide for a stronger more independent energy future." The American Energy Innovation Act (AEIA) addresses today's energy crisis and reliance on foreign oil by promoting increased efficiency, conservation and greater production of all forms of American energy, ranging from solar, biomass, hydropower, wind, geothermal, bio-fuels all the way down to algae as a source of energy. In addition to providing clean, affordable energy, the AEIA encourages and enables the domestic energy production of traditional energy resources, such as Utah's vast oil shale, which will create millions of sustainable long-term jobs over the next 30 years. The AEIA also recognizes that the clean energy options of tomorrow will be found through the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of the American people, not through Washington mandates. "The American Energy Innovation Act was introduced on behalf of every hardworking American who believes that enough is enough with the tax and mandate response to every issue facing our country. You cannot mandate ingenuity or entrepreneurship—that comes from the can-do American spirit this country was founded on," Bishop added. Additionally, the AEIA creates a Debt Reduction Trust Fund, which will direct revenue generated from increased domestic energy production. Furthermore, additional revenues generated from this bill will assist federal debt relief. -30-
04.01.2009	House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and Conference Chairman Mike Pence (R-IN) have announced the appointment of Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) to the House GOP American Energy Solutions Group. This group of House Republicans is tasked with crafting Republican solutions to lower energy prices for both American families and small businesses."We have the resources and the capabilities to help America be energy independent, now Congress just needs to take action to make it happen," Congressman Bishop said. "Energy issues have always been a priority of mine, so I appreciate the chance to participate with this energy working group to push for solutions that will help the country and individual families." Many lawmakers have expressed concern recently over Congress' inaction on energy issues and over actions by the new Administration that have slowed down or locked up energy production, even as energy costs remain high."High energy costs continue to hit the pocketbooks of American families and small businesses," said Boehner. "As gasoline prices skyrocketed to record levels last summer, Republicans consistently advocated an all-of-the-above strategy to create up to one million new jobs in the United States by increasing American energy production, encouraging greater efficiency and conservation, and promoting the use of alternative fuels. Because he knows energy policy, Rob Bishop was a key part of that effort and will continue to play an important role as we move forward with an all-of-the-above solution."Congressman Bishop, who sits on the House Resources Committee, introduced his own comprehensive energy bill last year. It was called the Americans for American Energy Act and was rolled out as part of a Republican Declaration of Energy Independence ceremony in the Capitol last summer. Mr. Bishop will now be collaborating with this new 26-member group as the GOP continues to push for comprehensive energy reform."I look forward to working with Rep. Rob Bishop and other key House Republicans to develop a policy that ensures energy independence without raising taxes." Pence said. "Rob has been in the trenches when it comes to the fight for a real, workable energy plan, so we look forward to what he can help the House GOP American Energy Solutions Group accomplish for our nation's families."NOTE: Members of the House GOP American Energy Solutions Group include:• Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), Chairman • Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), Co-Chair • Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), Co-Chair • Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) • Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN) • Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) • Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) • Rep. Dave Camp (R-MI) • Rep. Shelly Moore Capito (R-WV) • Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) • Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) • Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX) • Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA) • Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) • Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-TX) • Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX) • Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) • Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) • Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA) • Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) • Rep. John Shadegg (R-AZ) • Rep. John Sullivan (R-OK) • Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE) • Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) • Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH)• Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR)###
03.27.2009	As part of a major omnibus public lands bill, the U.S. Congress has cleared two separate measures sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) which would enable a land exchange between Bountiful City and the U.S. Forest Service and transfer land to Park City to be used as open space. The first measure allows the Forest Service to increase the total federal acreage of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest by acquiring more than 1,600 acres currently owned by Bountiful but within the boundaries of the forest. In exchange, Bountiful would be able to receive certain sections of land which are currently under Forest Service control but are adjacent to the city. The legislation calls for an equal value exchange between Bountiful City and the U.S. Forest Service. Following a required appraisal, the 1,680 acres of land Bountiful owns in the Forest System can be exchanged for part of a 220 acre parcel of U.S. Forest Service Land near the Bountiful City limits. This land is the home of the Bountiful Lions Club gun range and the Davis Aqueduct. "This legislation enables both sides to acquire the lands they need, and it will help the Forest Service and Bountiful City better manage the areas in question," Congressman Bishop said. "If they choose to make this deal, the new land for Bountiful will allow them to protect some important assets up there on the northeast side of town and really control their own destiny." Congress has also given final approval to a provision backed by Mr. Bishop which will transfer more than 100 acres of federal land to Park City to be used for open space and public recreation. The parcels of land, commonly known as White Acre and Gambel Oak, are currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The land transfer would add significantly to city-owned open space within Park City. Congressman Bishop, who sits on the Natural Resources Committee which first considered both bills separately, added, "This bill solves the question of who will own and manage these lands going forward, it preserves some good open space in the city, and it gives control and access for these lands to those closest to it, the leaders and citizens of the city." The package of public lands bills now heads to the President's desk for his signature. ###
03.16.2009	Backing an alternative to the so-called stimulus package that was recently passed by Congress, Representative Rob Bishop (R-Utah) helped roll out today a new stimulus bill aimed at spurring the economy through energy development. The No Cost Stimulus Act of 2009 seeks to stimulate the economy by creating jobs, freeing up natural resources and streamlining environmental review processes that have choked U.S. businesses and development. "Sometimes the answer to a problem is a lot simpler than we imagine," Congressman Bishop said. "And one of the simple answers to our economic woes is right in front of us, in the form of domestic energy development that will provide jobs, create revenue, and get our financial systems moving again. Instead of continuing to throw billions of taxpayer dollars at the problem, this legislation could actually create jobs and low cost energy with no net cost to the taxpayers." The legislation, which was introduced in the Senate today by Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, contains multiple provisions that would open up American resources to development, funnel some of the revenue into renewable and alternative energy sources, and streamline existing environmental regulations which have thwarted development across the country. Mr. Bishop will be the lead sponsor of the same measure in the House. According to details outlined in a bicameral press conference today, over two million high paying jobs could be created or saved, with trillions of dollars added to the GDP over a span of 30 years, simply by developing American natural resources. Also, millions of dollars would be added to Federal and State coffers at no cost to taxpayers. Congressman Bishop, who participated in today's press event at the Capitol, added, "This could really be a win-win, where we help consumers with lower energy costs and more jobs, we help the country become more energy independent, and we invest in renewable energy at no cost to the American taxpayers." A section by section analysis of the full legislation, as provided by Senator Vitter's office, is below: Title I- Outer Continental Shelf Leasing Sec. 101: Leasing Program Considered Approved a. Immediately begins 2010-2015 OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program and expedites environmental review. Sec. 102: Lease Sales a. Expedites lease sales and mandates the Secretary of the Interior must periodically continue to provide lease sales as long as there exists a commercial interest. Sec. 103: Seaward Boundaries of States a. Extends the boundaries of coastal states from 3 miles (9 miles for Texas and Florida Gulf) to a uniform 12 miles, which is the territorial limit of the United States. b. Does not change federal oil and gas mineral rights, but provides jurisdiction for states to tax out to 12 miles any new projects that may include renewable energy, mariculture or any new ideas that may come from U.S. ingenuity. Sec. 104: Coastal Impact Assistance Program a. Expedites the current program by which states receive funding through the Coastal Impact Assistance Program. Title II- ANWR Leasing Program Sec. 201: Definitions Sec. 202: Leasing Program for Land within the Coastal Plain a. Streamlines the leasing process and makes necessary changes to law for conforming requirements. b. Limits amount of land to be leased and minimizes infrastructure impact. Provides for directional drilling. Sec. 203: Lease Sales a. Requires first lease sale to occur within 22 months after enactment of this bill. Sec. 204: Grant of Leases by the Secretary Sec. 205: Lease Terms and Conditions a. Requires payment of royalty of not less than 12 ½ percent. b. Provides adequate protections for caribou and other species of fish and wildlife. Sec. 206: Coastal Plain Environmental Protection a. Just a lot of good things in here protecting the environment. Covers everything from groundwater to toxic waste. Sec. 207: Expedited Judicial Review a. Limits time frame to file complaints to 90 days. b. Makes the State Court of Appeals of D.C. the proper venue. Sec. 208: Federal and State Distribution of Revenue a. 50% to the state of Alaska and remainder to go in the ANWR Renewable/Alternative Energy Trust Fund (except for $11 million to be used for local impact assistance. Sec. 211(d)) b. Distribution of the Renewable/Alternative Energy Trust Fund for various types of renewable and alternatives. Sec. 209: Rights-of-Way Across the Coastal Plain Sec. 210: Conveyance Sec. 211: Local Government Impact Aid and Community Service Assistance Sec. 212: ANWR Alternative Energy Trust Fund Title III- Regulatory Streamlining Sec 301: Requires leasing of oil shale resources once a commercial interest in production exists. Sec. 302: Licensing of New Nuclear Power Plants a. Streamlines hearing and judicial review processes for permitting. Sec. 303: Jurisdiction over Covered Energy Projects a. Streamlines the judicial review process for energy project development on federal lands and terminates forum shopping. Sec. 304: Environmental Impact Statements a. Streamlines the review process for NEPA and places time limits on review. Sec. 305: Clean Air Regulation a. Excludes CO2, methane (from agriculture and livestock) and water vapor from the Clean Air Act (CAA) under "pollutant." The CAA was not intended as a tool for controlling climate change or otherwise to devastate the economy. b. Prevents EPA Administrator from granting waivers to states and makes federal law preempt greenhouse gas emission controls at the state level that otherwise creates a patchwork of laws that will significantly impact the economy. Sec. 306: Endangered Species Act a. Provides the Governor of a state the authority to temporarily exempt activities from the Endangered Species Act during declaration of an emergency, but only long enough to ameliorate the emergency. b. Prohibits consideration of the Endangered Species Act as a tool for regulating Greenhouse Gases. This was clearly not the intent of the ESA and appropriate climate change legislation should be developed to achieve that goal. ###
03.11.2009	The Utah congressional delegation announced today that Hill Air Force Base has been selected as the Air Logistics Center that will be responsible for some of the most important components and systems used on the Air Force's newest unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), the MQ-1 Predator and the MQ-9 Reaper. "These UAVs, with their advanced sensors, precision munitions and long-lingering capability, have become some of the most effective weapons in the Global War on Terror," stated Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah). "UAVs are the weapon systems of the future and Hill is getting in on the ground floor and will be a leader in UAV depot maintenance. From this point forward, America will never go to war without the extensive use of this type of weapons system. Once again, the Air Force has recognized the excellence of Hill's workforce." "This announcement further strengthens Hill's role as a key component of our national defense strategy," said Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah.) "UAVs have proven to be one of the most valuable advanced weapons systems, and Hill will now play an integral role in the ongoing success and strength of this military apparatus." "The Air Force has recognized time and again that the Ogden ALC workforce is highly-capable and efficient," said Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah), member of the House Armed Services Committee. "Sending this important work to Ogden is another vote of confidence that they can do the job right. The proximity of Hill AFB to the incomparable Utah Test and Training Range is another reason to bring UAV maintenance and testing to Ogden. Unlike other locations, having the UTTR close by is a big factor in being able to adequately check out these weapons systems to ensure that they're ready to rejoin military operations." "I am pleased that Hill Air Force Base will continue to play a vital role in our national defense. Utah's top-notch military work force will supply some of the best technology available to fight terrorism," said Rep. Jim Matheson (D-Utah). This announcement comes after the Utah delegation sent a letter to the Air Force in February 2008 encouraging that Hill be selected as a location for the operation in sustainment of the unmanned aerial systems. Hill will be responsible for the following subsystems that make up two UAV airplanes: MQ-1 Predator: There are currently 110 aircraft in the inventory, with more than 30 additional aircraft planned for purchase in Fiscal Year 2009. •The Disassembly and Reassembly of the Aircraft for Depot Maintenance •This includes inspecting and repairing the components that encompass the airframe. •Ground Data Terminal •Primary Satellite Link •Ground Control Station •Multi-Spectral Targeting System MQ-9 Reaper: There are currently more than 10 aircraft in the inventory, with plans to purchase many more over the next several years. •The Disassembly and Reassembly of the Aircraft for Depot Maintenance •This includes inspecting and repairing the components that encompass the airframe. •Command, Control and Communications (C31), with application to the Remote Flight Control of the Air Vehicle •Landing Gear •Composite, Plastics and Rubber and Metal Bonding Repair Technology •This includes repairing parts, such as control surfaces, skins, and structural members that require composite, plastic, rubber and metal bonding technologies. "This selection solidifies the existing industrial base at Hill and it sets a strong foundation for future depot maintenance projects," Hatch added. ##
03.10.2009	U.S. House and Senate Members are asking Western governors some tough questions about a climate action plan that risks tens of billions of investment dollars. Western states need this revenue to develop new power plants than can better manage greenhouse gas emissions. "Many of us are working hard to encourage investment in the West to support clean energy technology development, including: low-emission generation technologies and CO2 capture, transportation and sequestration and enhanced oil recovery," nearly twenty U.S. Senators and House Members representing 10 western states wrote in a letter to all Western governors this week. "If Western states are to heed the Western Climate Initiative's call to avoid deploying virtually any new fossil-fuel plants, even with CO2 capture and sequestration, what will that do to the attractiveness of the West for investment in new CCS-enabled energy technologies?" The Western Climate Initiative (WCI), launched in 2007 by the governors of California, Oregon, Washington, Arizona and New Mexico, called last September for the West to impose upon itself a regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade system. Utah and Montana joined the WCI as partner states in 2008, with Alaska, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Nevada and Wyoming joining as "observers." Four Canadian provinces are also WCI partners. "This plan creates more problems for the West than it solves," said Senator John Barrasso (WY), co-author of the bicameral letter. "Any plan that appears to exclude baseload, twenty four hour power like clean coal, nuclear, natural gas, and hydro-power will not even come close to powering the West." The WCI model allows for virtually no new baseload power plants deployed in the West through 2020 that are powered by natural gas, clean-coal-with-carbon-capture, renewable hydropower or nuclear energy, while calling for all of the West's growing need for electricity to be met entirely by renewable technologies and demand destruction. "WCI's recommendations are that the West utilize virtually no new baseload generation and rely entirely on mostly intermittent renewables and demand reduction to meet growing energy needs," the Members of Congress wrote. "What is the technical rationale supporting an intermittent, renewables-only fuel portfolio? How does WCI suggest that the reserve capacity margins necessary to support the Western electricity grid be maintained and bolstered under such an approach?" "If the West were to follow the WCI's recommendation of virtually no new power plants fueled by natural gas," they asked, "how can we facilitate the deployment of massive new wind and solar power facilities, which need fossil fuels like natural gas in order to successfully integrate into the power grid?" "WCI is recommending that the West avoid deploying virtually any new baseload generation from fossil, nuclear or renewable hydropower – all of which are essential to long-term economic growth and job creation," the Members wrote as they asked governors a series of questions: • "Did the WCI's job creation estimate take into account the net creation or loss of jobs in the region, or did it focus solely on the creation of self-described 'green jobs?'" • "How long does WCI estimate the stimulating effect of these regulatory mandates will take to kick in?" • "How will the stimulating effect be measured precisely?" • "Won't certain states in the West have to bear disproportionately costs vis-à-vis other states?" • "Won't such a disproportionate impact constitute a transfer of wealth from some Western states to others? Was this transfer of wealth quantified?" The Congressional Members also pointed to a recent independent economic analysis by Management Information Services, Inc., of Washington, D.C. The analysis found that the WCI "would impose significant new costs and job losses on the Western United States while delivering no scientifically measurable benefit in terms of reduced global climate temperatures." "That analysis calculated a future temperature benefit from the WCI of approximately one-ten-thousandth of one degree Celsius – a change that scientists and climatologists agree is not measurable. We find this analysis compelling, given that the benefit calculation was based entirely on the scientific findings, assumptions and formula of the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We would appreciate your response as to how this amount of climate benefit is sufficient to justify imposing the economic costs likely to flow to consumers from the WCI?" Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-1), Chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus and co-author of the letter, stated: "This plan raises a number of serious questions. We're hoping our letter helps us to better understand the assumptions that went into this regional cap-and-trade proposal." The Senators and Congressional representatives signing the letter to governors include: Senator John Barrasso (WY) Senator Mike Enzi (WY) Senator James Inhofe (OK) Senator Orrin Hatch (UT) Congressman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) Congressman Mike Coffman (CO-06) Congressman Jeff Flake (AZ-06) Congressman Elton Gallegly (CA-24) Congressman Dean Heller (NV-02) Congressman Wally Herger (CA-02) Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05) Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis (WY) Congressman Dan Lungren (CA-13) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) Congressman George Radanovich (CA-19) Congressman Denny Rehberg (MT) Congressman John Shadegg (AZ-03) Congressman Lee Terry (NE-02) Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01)The Congressional Western Caucus is comprised of members of Congress committed to protecting the interests and ideals of the West. ###
02.24.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) issued the following statement after President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress this evening: "There is plenty to agree with, as President Obama spoke in broad strokes of general policy. But one legitimate concern is whether or not Democratic leaders in Congress, like Nancy Pelosi, can produce legislation that actually promotes solutions instead of preventing them. The President certainly got one thing right – America is strong and we can get through this. History has shown that we have been through rougher times – even recently - and come out alright, mostly because of the strength and resolve of individual Americans. We should remember that real and permanent solutions come from American families and businesses, not from government. The answer to our economic woes will definitely not come from massive government spending and tax increases."
02.24.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives considered and passed, today, a measure that seeks to transfer federal lands currently held by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) within Camp Williams to the State of Utah for use by the Utah National Guard. The legislation, introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) and referred to as the Utah National Guard Readiness Act, would allow the Utah National Guard to better control additional areas within Camp Williams in order to expand facilities and training. "This important bill will help the Utah National Guard fulfill its future mission by making sure there is room there to build and train," Congressman Bishop said. HR 603, which is co-sponsored by Utah's two other Congressmen, would transfer fee ownership of approximately 430 acres of federal land at Camp Williams to the State of Utah and the Utah National Guard. This BLM transfer is the second land transfer in as many years involving Camp Williams. The first transfer, which took place as part of the Defense Authorization bill in Congress last year, shifted to the State parcels of Army Corps of Engineers land inside Camp Williams. This new legislation will help consolidate checkerboard land ownership patterns in the area leading to more efficient management of the affected lands. According to the offices of Utah's Congressional delegation, state ownership of these lands will simplify and streamline the process for expanding future guard facilities. It allows the State to bond for construction of such facilities, which it is currently restricted from doing without holding title. The transfer is subject to a reverter clause which requires that the lands be used for National Guard or defense purposes. Bishop, who sits on both the Natural Resources and Armed Services Committees, applauded the State of Utah and the National Guard for working constructively with his office on this legislation. "The State and the Guard have been great partners in this process," he said. "Clarifying who owns this land will ensure that any future expansion and future upgrades by the Guard are a lot easier and less costly. This way our military can focus on their important mission of keeping our country secure." The Utah National Guard Readiness Act, which is identical to HR 3651 which passed unanimously in the House last Congress, now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
02.24.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation Monday evening which would help Mantua City obtain ownership of more land within city limits. The plan, introduced earlier by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) as H.R. 601, would convey to the city land currently owned by the federal government. The conveyed land could be used for any legitimate public purpose, including the potential development of a new city cemetery, a new town hall, a fire station, or even a future park or elementary school. "Everyone who has spent time in Mantua understands what a great place it is, but they are at the point where they need to expand some and this land transfer would help with that," Congressman Bishop said. "There is no reason for the feds to just sit on this land when it could be put to use for the public good up there." The Bishop bill, labeled the Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act, is identical to legislation which cleared the House last year but which failed to receive consideration in the Senate. It would transfer to Mantua three parcels of existing Forest Service land, for a total of 31 acres. The parcels of land identified by H.R. 601 are located on the south end of town below 100 South and west of Main Street and Willard Peak Road. They are bounded on three sides by privately held land, roads and other development. This land is part of a larger tract of land which was originally owned by Hans Rasmussen, one of the early settlers of Mantua, and which was deeded to the U.S. Forest Service by his family in 1941 for $1.00. Representative Bishop, whose district encompasses all of Box Elder County, noted, "I think history shows that these areas were basically handed over to the feds in 1941, and now the time has come to turn them back over to the city for legitimate public purposes which will benefit everyone." Since the land was given to the federal government by what is known as a quitclaim deed, the legislation directs the land be conveyed to the city "without consideration," which means that the City of Mantua would not have to pay for the acquired land. The bill does require, though, that the city bear some of the costs associated with the land survey and actual conveyance which would be accrued by the Forest Service. In July of last year, the House Resources Committee held a legislative hearing on the Bishop legislation, at which Karen Nelson, an active member of the Mantua community, testified in support of the proposed land transfer. Ms. Nelson, who resides next to the current Mantua town hall, lamented the lack of city-owned land in her area, noting that "Mantua is rich in natural beauties but poor indeed in ownership of land." She argued that transferring these acres to the town so that they could be used for public purposes would benefit the public as well as the Forest Service. With passage by the full House, the Bishop legislation now heads to the U.S Senate for further consideration, though a schedule for when it may be taken up there is unclear at this point. ###
02.18.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop, today, voted against the final version of the so-called stimulus bill, which was loaded with $787 billion worth of spending on government programs and projects. At the same time, the northern Utah lawmaker criticized the closed and rushed process that produced the final version of the legislation. Congressman Bishop had previously backed an alternative focused on immediate tax relief for families and assistance for small businesses to create jobs. Following the vote, Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: "This bill is not focused on job creation, and is not what President Obama said he wanted. Democrat leaders in Congress made a bad bill worse by cutting back on tax relief to pay for more big government spending. The problem isn't just the amount of money spent, but that the money spent simply won't solve the problems. The process was also poor. Maybe when Speaker Pelosi promised 48 hours to review the bill, she actually meant 4 to 8 hours, since Democrats didn't release the bill until midnight—just hours before debate started this morning. There was a better option before us: fast-acting tax relief for working families and small businesses that would have created twice the jobs at half the cost, but Speaker Pelosi refused to give that bill a chance to be heard." ##
02.11.2009	Congressman Bishop released the following statement following reports that the Obama Administration has plans to force the Census Bureau to answer directly to the White House Chief of Staff and not the Secretary of Commerce: "The Constitution calls for a census every ten years, 'in such manner as they - meaning Congress - shall by law direct.' I don't see anywhere in the Constitution or existing law passed by Congress where the White House Chief of Staff can arbitrarily grab that power for himself. It would politicize the process much more than it needs to be, and it shouldn't happen. It takes something that is supposedly apolitical like the census, and gives it to a guy who is infamously political. Plus, if it were managed from the White House, it would seem impossible to implement needed reforms to the system, and the chances for abuse are certainly magnified."
01.28.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop, today, voted against a proposed stimulus bill loaded with $819 billion worth of spending on government programs and projects, and instead backed an alternative focused on immediate tax relief for American families and small businesses. Following the vote, Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: "This bill is not what President Obama said he wanted and it doesn't create enough jobs or provide economic recovery. The Democrat leaders in Congress missed the mark on this one by funding instead a bloated laundry list of liberal priorities, programs that don't create jobs, and phony tax provisions that aren't going to save taxpayers money. The problem isn't just the amount of money spent, but that the money spent simply won't solve the problem." "I supported an alternative that would provide immediate relief for American families and businesses by letting them keep more of their own money, and it would provide real job growth without wasteful Washington spending." ###
01.15.2009	"While this final decision was somewhat expected, it is great news for the base and yet another exciting step for the Ogden ALC. I think the good work and skill of the folks at Hill have really locked in Ogden's position as the country's top fighter depot. This development will have a positive impact on future employment in our area, but also on our national security and military preparedness down the road." "We're seeing the perfect combination come together, where we'll have a wing of F-35s at Hill and the depot maintenance operation for F-35s to back them and the rest of the fleet up." "Now one of the big challenges is making sure we adequately fund and build enough of these planes to meet our defense needs. It's time to really step things up in terms of timeline and production." "All of our modern weapons systems, like the F-22 and F-35 are made of composites, and so we're working on a solid partnership at Ogden ALC for composite training and manufacturing. This would help Hill retain its reputation as the military's ‘Center of Excellence' for composites, which will also help position Hill for the future."
01.15.2009	During an organizational meeting in Washington this week, members of the Congressional Western Caucus selected Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) to serve as the organization's new chairman, replacing fellow Utahn Chris Cannon as the group's head. The Caucus, made up of roughly 50 members of Congress from throughout the western United States, champions interests unique to the West, and is known around Capitol Hill as a defender of public lands access, private property rights, wise natural resource development, workable environmental regulations, and the enhancement of water and energy supplies. Congressman Bishop, who previously served as Communications and Outreach Chair for the Caucus, responded to the selection with the following statement: "I've thoroughly enjoyed my activity so far in the Caucus working with like-minded lawmakers to defend the interests of all Westerners. And I look forward to serving in a new capacity, as we try to defend our rights and western way of life. Chairman Cannon did a great job, and his voice on these issues will be missed. But we will continue to fight the good fight, and work to promote multiple use, strengthen local control, secure energy independence, and protect private property." The selection to the position of Chairman is effective immediately and will run through the entire two years of the upcoming 111th Congress. Bishop also currently holds seats on the Armed Services Committee, the Resources Committee and the Education & Labor Committee. ###
01.15.2009	Congressman Rob Bishop reacted today with disappointment to new rule changes passed this afternoon by House Democrats and Speaker Nancy Pelosi – changes which make the U.S. House of Representatives less open and transparent, and transfer more power and control to the Speaker. Congressman Bishop, who today started his fourth term in Congress, issued the following statement about the Pelosi-backed rules changes: "These changes reverse a right that all minority parties have had for 100 years. Speaker Pelosi is setting a history-changing precedent by stripping members of Congress of this procedural right, all to gain more control and consolidate her own power." "A senior member of Congress once remarked that if he let anyone else have control of the policy and he retained control of the procedure, he would win every time. Nobody seems interested in procedure, but it makes a difference. Poor procedure always produces poor policy. These procedural changes harm the institution." "Democrats claimed the changes would make Congress more efficient, but Congress was never meant to be efficient. Dictators are efficient. Our democratic practices in a republican framework are inefficient and consume time but always in an effort to ensure all views are heard and individual rights are not trampled." "It's sad the Speaker couldn't get through day one of the new session without turning this place into a partisan mess. She is trampling on history and the existing rights of the minority, and Congress will produce worse policy because of it. Rules and procedures matter, and they affect the quality of final legislative products." The Democrats' rules package changes existing House rules to limit dissent and debate, makes it harder to cut taxes, and repeals term-limits for incumbent committee chairmen. One part of the rules changes prohibits the inclusion of "promptly" instructions in a motion to recommit – or, in other words, the new change strips the ability of the Minority to force a vote on sending a bill back to committee. Such instructions are one of the few ways Republicans currently can express their views on legislation brought to the Floor. Bishop added: "The changes Speaker Pelosi is ramming through now will reverse our current reforms, and make Congress less transparent and less accountable to the people it serves. Plus it makes it harder to cut taxes and a lot easier to raise them. That is a terrible idea." ###
10.03.2008	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) issued the following statement today after voting against the final version of the bailout legislation: "I enjoyed teaching history, in large part, because of the wisdom that hindsight provides. That advantage wasn't present on this issue. There is a crisis, but no one knows for sure how severe it is or will become. We needed to act, but no one knows if the current plan will work." "We are in a tough financial time, and there are legitimate concerns it could get worse fast. But it's enough of a problem and concern that we should have taken a little more time and looked at legitimate alternatives – particularly more market-based approaches. We were told that the original proposal was the best we could do. But when people said no it got better. We were then told that the bill we had to vote on last Monday, which was an improvement, was the best we could do. But when the House said no, it got better. Finally, we were told that the bill before us today, which was indeed better, was the best we could do. The bill got better over time, but we'll never know how much better it could have become because of the locked down process in the House. If Speaker Pelosi had allowed an open process, we could have explored better options." "Writing bills in secret and allowing absolutely no amendments by anyone on the floor meant legitimate ideas aimed at protecting the taxpayers and limiting the taxpayers' potential liability were never allowed to be explored or voted. That was frustrating. This year we had more bills on the floor with no chance for amendments than during anytime in the history of Congress. That did not make for a better process, and I fear that did not make for a better product either." "I backed a conservative alternative that along with others deserved to at least be considered. But on all of these proposals, including the one we were forced to vote on today (with only an up or down vote), there was no committee work, no public input, no amendments allowed, and no chance to improve it on the floor. Had we been given the chance to discuss and vote on alternatives, we could have at least verified how much further we could have pushed taxpayer protections and a solution that would have been more free-market-based." "As I said before, House Republican Leadership helped make this bill a lot better than the original proposal, and conservative Republicans fought for the right principles in this debate. But the final legislation still was too large an amount to authorize all at once, represented too much government intervention, and put the taxpayers too much at risk." ###
09.29.2008	Members of Utah's Congressional delegation have announced that the U.S. Congress has passed a measure that will transfer federal lands currently held by the Army Corps of Engineers within Camp Williams to the State of Utah for use by the National Guard. The provision, which was included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Defense Authorization Act, will allow the Utah National Guard to increase its control of additional areas within Camp Williams in order to expand facilities and training opportunities. "The role and capabilities of the Utah National Guard continue to expand in positive ways, and we're just trying to make sure they have room for that solid growth," Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) said. The transfer was originally introduced by Mr. Bishop in the House as the Utah National Guard Readiness Act, but Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) spearheaded compromise language in the Senate which allowed the provision to gain approval in that body. The compromise language was then incorporated into the final version of the defense bill. "I am very pleased that my compromise language was accepted in the final legislation and applaud Congressman Bishop for his yeoman's work in passing this legislation in the House," Hatch said. "Senator Bennett also deserves thanks for his important support during the consideration of this legislation. It was truly a joint effort." The details of the measure call for 916 acres of federal land at Camp Williams to be transferred to the State of Utah for the use of the Utah National Guard, specifically to fulfill future military growth and expansion under the Guard's master plan. According to the offices of Utah's Congressional delegation, having the State of Utah own title to these important lands near the existing Camp Williams Headquarters buildings will assist the Guard in developing new missions and facilities, since the State will be able to underwrite the financing of the development of this land for military purposes. It is believed that control of these parcels will also help the Guard by simplifying the expansion process. The transfer is subject to a reverter that mandates that the lands must be used for military purposes. "The land in question here is already withdrawn by the feds for military use, so all we're doing is transferring it to the State, for the same use," Bishop added. "This will make expansion and any future upgrades by the Guard a lot easier and less costly." According to documents prepared by the National Guard, the land transfer will permit easier access to utilities and services necessary to support expanded development and military use. The reduced cost to bring these services into certain areas within Camp Williams represents a significant economic advantage when considering the cost of upgrading old and inadequate services already onsite. In testimony before the Natural Resources Committee on March 6 of this year, Colonel Scott Olson of the Utah National Guard warned that failure to transfer the lands specified in the bill could have "several significant negative impacts." He added that with the bill the Guard would gain greater efficiency in planning and be able to negate the costs associated with a piecemeal approach to expansion. Bishop, who sits on both the Natural Resources and Armed Services Committees, applauded the State of Utah and the National Guard for working constructively with his office on this legislation. "I'm proud of the training that takes place at Camp Williams and the military service the Guard provides around the world," he said. "They need this extra space so they can continue to grow and be a critical part of our national security." "Our National Guard does amazing work, and they deserve all the support we can provide," Hatch added. "This transfer ensures they will have the capacity to attract and execute new missions." A Subcommittee hearing for the original legislation and a subsequent full Committee mark-up in the House Resources Committee were held in the Spring of this year, with the full House then adopting versions of the transfer language twice, most recently in the defense bill last week. The Senate cleared the final version of the defense bill, including the Utah land transfer language, over the weekend. That bill now heads to the President for his signature, which is expected in the next few days. ###
09.29.2008	Congressman Rob Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved millions of dollars in funding authorizations for military spending in Utah as well as a land transfer for the Utah National Guard at Camp Williams, as part of two defense-related bills passed today. The transfer of federal lands at Camp Williams to the State of Utah was first proposed by Bishop as a stand-alone bill but was included in the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act passed by Congress today. Having the State of Utah own title to these lands near existing Camp Williams Headquarters buildings will further facilitate the Guard getting important new missions and facilities, and streamline and simplify the process for the Utah National Guard in reaching its expansion goals. The other piece of legislation passed today – a continuing resolution to keep the government funded –also included a list of priority defense projects in the Beehive State set to receive funding. "First and foremost, these bills are for our military, and giving our troops the support and infrastructure they need to keep doing their jobs so well," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes practically all of Utah's military installations, continued, "I'm proud of what our soldiers do, and I'm proud this legislation backs them up. I'm also proud to secure so much funding for defense projects in Utah. Our installations and personnel are really on the front lines and the cutting edge of our national defense, and money spent in Utah is money well spent. Finally, getting this land transfer done for Camp Williams will be critical down the road for expansion and future missions for our National Guard." Below are details on some of the projects from today's House action which Congressman Bishop requested and pushed, which will positively impact Utah's military installations and defense sector: • Hill AFB Automated Composite Technologies Manufacturing Center (with ATK) $5 million –This builds on funding received the last few years to help develop Ogden ALC as a "Center of Excellence" for Carbon Fiber aircraft parts repair and manufacturing, which is the future of maintaining all advanced aircraft and weapons systems. • Hill Air Force Base Military Construction: Three-Bay Fire Station, $5.67 Million. This project will correct a safety deficiency at Hill AFB for emergency response times by firefighting personnel and help further develop the East Side of the runway. • Small Low-Cost Reconnaissance Spacecraft Components, USU-SDL, $1.6 Million. This continues funding Mr. Bishop secured last year to help USU-SDL develop space components for the military that will be cheaper to produce and offer more flexibility over more traditional and more costly satellite programs. • Science, Engineering and Laboratory Data Integration (SELDI), $800,000. SELDI helps the Ogden ALC be more productive by eliminating duplicate spare parts and making technical data more accessible to depot personnel. • Tomahawk Missile Cost Reduction Initiative, $1.6 million – This helps Williams International in Ogden save taxpayers money by reducing the engine production costs for the missile system. • Dugway Lidar Radar Improvements, $2.4 million - This will modernize Dugway's capabilities to the state of the art detection system for certain chemical and biological agents in their important defensive testing work. • UH-60 Improved Communications (ARC 220) Radios, Utah National Guard, $1.6 million – This will directly help the Utah National Guard by putting the latest longer-range radios into the Blackhawks they operate. Other general highlights of the National Defense Authorization Act include: • A 3.9% pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2009. • Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including $1.7 billion for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. • $2.1 billion for an additional 6 C-17's to support intra-theater airlift requirements and meet the airlift needs for the increased end strength in the Army and Marine Corps. • $2.9 billion for 20 additional F-22A aircraft in 2009 and $523 million in advanced procurement funding for 20 additional aircraft in 2010. • Restores $309 million for missile defense that was cut in the House-version of the defense bill, including the restoration of $124 million for European missile defense interceptors and radars. • Additional increases of 7,000 Army and 5,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. • An additional $800 million for National Guard equipment. The final legislation also increases full-time manning for the Army National Guard to 32,060 and the Air National Guard to 14,360. • Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on increases to TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard. • Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on retail pharmacy cost share increases. • Enhances certain Department of Defense authorities to train and equip foreign forces, lend needed equipment to coalition partners, provide limited funds to the Department of State for security and stabilization efforts, and allow Defense Department officials to work more closely with their foreign counterparts. After final passage of both pieces of legislation, Congressman Bishop commented: "While they might not contain everything I'd like to see, the final defense-related bills we saw this week show the good results when both sides of the aisle work together on our most important responsibility – providing for the national defense. Utah will be better off because of this funding, but more importantly our country will be safer and more secure, and our troops will get more of what they need and deserve." ###
08.05.2008	Hill Air Force Base may be receiving $5.4 million soon for the construction of a new fire station there, thanks to a provision sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah). The funding is part of the annual Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which the U.S. House of Representatives approved early Friday morning. The new three-bay fire station, which would be located on the East side of the runway at Hill, will provide more adequate fire protection for operations on that side of the base, making future expansion and additional missions possible there. "Growth at the base is always exciting, but there are certain things you need in place, like sufficient fire protection, before you can expand some areas," Congressman Bishop said. "So we've been working to try and get funding for this new fire station, so that the east side can really start to be developed more." Congressman Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, also announced that the House spending bill includes funding for other military construction projects in the Beehive State – projects which were initially included in President Bush's preliminary budget. Those plans include the construction of an F-22 maintenance and composite repair facility and the development of a new hydrant fuel system, both at Hill AFB. The maintenance and repair facility is another step in making sure the base is ready to execute depot-level maintenance and repair in the future on the F-22. The modernization of the jet fuel distribution system, with strategically placed fuel bibs along the flight line, will ensure easier, safer and more efficient fuel distribution at Hill. Money is also included in the legislation for the Army National Guard to build a storage facility for all types of ammunition and munitions at Camp Williams. "Adequate infrastructure is an important part of supporting our troops, even though it sometimes gets overlooked," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes practically all of Utah's military installations, continued, "We've got to have the right facilities in place to support our men and women in uniform and to let them do their jobs, and this legislation helps accomplish that." The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration, but it is unclear at this point when that body may take up the legislation. ###
07.30.2008	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) today announced a new online survey that will allow school officials, parents, teachers, and community members to share their stories of how high energy prices are impacting Utah's schools. The Back to School Energy Survey, posted on the Republican portion of the House Education and Labor Committee website, will gather critical information about how schools are coping with rising fuel costs. It will also give Congress valuable information and an important new resource as it works to respond to America's growing energy crisis. "Energy costs continue to rise, Congress is doing nothing, and our schools are paying the price," said Representative Bishop. "We've seen gas prices go from an average of $2.33 per gallon in January 2007 to $3.93 per gallon today, while diesel prices – particularly important for school transportation purposes – have risen from $2.44 per gallon to $4.71 per gallon today. Those kinds of increases hit school budgets hard." House Republicans developed this web-based survey that will help determine the full impact of the nation's soaring gas prices on our schools. The survey, which can be found online at http://republicans.edlabor.house.gov/energysurvey.shtml, will collect information from school officials, teachers, families, and communities to determine the extent of the energy crisis in our schools – input that should help force Congress to take action to help develop more American energy and lower fuel costs. "I hope a lot of folks that care about education take a minute to fill out this survey," said Congressman Bishop, a 28-year high school teacher himself. The lawmaker, who sits on the House Education and Labor Committee, continued "The price at the pump is hurting our schools, but I'm afraid Congress isn't getting that message. House Leadership needs to hear from constituents directly about the serious impacts kids and schools are feeling, so that Congress can get serious about enacting real energy reform."
07.23.2008	House Republican leaders today introduced their comprehensive, "all-of-the-above" energy legislation, and in doing so relied heavily on provisions already contained in energy legislation authored by Congressman Rob Bishop, according to the Utah lawmaker's office. H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, was rolled out in a press conference on the West steps of the U.S. Capitol today, and aims to increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. Sources within House GOP Leadership had told Congressman Bishop's office earlier this week that many of the main provisions within H.R. 6384, Mr. Bishop's energy bill, would be incorporated into this new legislation, and that indeed turned out to be the case today. "It's flattering I guess when your work is picked up by others," Congressman Bishop said. "But I'm less worried about being flattered and more about actually getting something done that will increase American supplies and lower costs for consumers. So I'm grateful to Republican Leadership for taking so many of our provisions and working them into this new comprehensive energy bill." Major provisions in the new bill which mirror provisions in Congressman Bishop's bill include exploring the Outer Continental Shelf, drilling in the Arctic coastal plain, developing oil shale resources, increasing refinery capacity, and establishing an energy trust fund. Congressman Bishop's legislation got specific mention in four other areas: eliminating barriers to the expansion of emission-free nuclear power production, providing a monetary prize for developing the first economically feasible, super-fuel-efficient vehicle, promoting coal-to-liquids technology, and repealing what is known as "Section 526" which currently prohibits government purchasing of alternative energy. "I think it's a real compliment to Rob and his personal efforts that he had so many provisions all ready to go to be rolled into this new comprehensive bill," Bishop spokesman Scott Parker said. "They obviously didn't use our entire bill, which would have been ideal, but we feel good that they could draw upon Rob's legislation in so many places for this main Republican bill." According to the Congressman's office, he will continue to push his own legislation, which was introduced on behalf of the Congressional Western Caucus, and at the same time support the new Republican energy bill as well. Both bills focus on areas of conservation, production, and innovation, which Representative Bishop has long advocated. "There isn't going to be one single answer to our energy problems," Congressman Bishop said, "so we've got to make sure we're dealing with legislation like these two bills that keep so many options on the table. An ‘all-of-the-above' approach will help get America the energy independence it needs and get Americans the energy relief they deserve." More detailed information on the American Energy Act introduced today can be found at: http://www.gop.gov/energy/americanenergyact ###
06.27.2008	Joined by members of the Congressional Western Caucus, a bicameral group of western members and leaders on energy issues, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) today introduced the "Americans for American Energy Act," a comprehensive energy bill designed to help American consumers and increase domestic energy security through conservation, production, and innovation. The "Americans for American Energy Act", or H.R. 6384, proposes a 12-step program of financial and regulatory incentives to encourage the production of more American energy from virtually all resources and technologies. It also allocates revenues generated from increased domestic production to fund conservation and efficiency efforts. In addition, the bill would help establish a steady funding source for the research, development and deployment of next generation energy technologies. "The American people need some relief from pain at the pump, and they overwhelmingly support reducing our reliance on foreign energy," Congressman Bishop said. "We can accomplish both goals with a comprehensive approach that will encourage conservation, allow for increased production of all forms of American energy, and tap into American innovation to reduce costs. I really think that the Americans for American Energy Act is the most comprehensive bill introduced this Congress that lets us develop the resources we have right here in the States and maps out a plan to wean us off our reliance on foreign energy." According to sources within the Western Caucus, U.S. consumption of oil has doubled since the 1970's, while domestic oil production has fallen nearly 40 percent. The U.S. will send roughly $500 billion overseas this year to import energy. "There's no question that America has clearly become addicted to foreign energy," Congressman Bishop commented. "But there is no reason we can't break that addiction, and help out all Americans, by tapping the resources we have here." Referencing that addiction problem, members of the Western Caucus pointed out that it may be no coincidence that the Bishop energy legislation contains 12 sections, or a 12-step addiction recovery plan. The 12 steps to greater energy independence as outlined in H.R. 6384 are to: 1. Increase the Supply of Affordable, Domestically-Produced Natural Gas 2. Promote Responsible Development of American Oil Resources 3. Develop America's Largest Untapped Energy Resource: Oil Shale 4. Utilize America's 200-Year Coal Supply 5. Increase the Use of Clean and Affordable Nuclear Power 6. Invest in Domestic Renewable Resources 7. Promote Greater Energy Efficiency and Conservation 8. Increase America's Gasoline Refining Capacity 9. Adopt Common-Sense Regulatory Relief and Tax Reform 10. Improve America's Transmission and Energy Infrastructure Systems 11. Restore Our Domestic Energy Workforce 12. Tap American Ingenuity & Innovation to Develop New Energy Technologies The legislation, which was unveiled at a Capitol Hill ceremony today where members of Congress signed a Declaration of American Energy Independence, has already been co-sponsored by more than two dozen other lawmakers and runs some 215 pages long. "There's no single silver bullet to solve our energy problems," Congressman Bishop said. "But I think this bill which focuses on conservation, production, and innovation, can be the consensus, comprehensive answer America needs right now." ###
06.20.2008	The U.S. Air Force has formalized its decision designating the Ogden Air Logistics Center at Hill Air Force Base as a key site for future repair work on the F-35 aircraft, according to a notification received by the office of Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) today. The United States Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) informed Representative Bishop, whose district includes Hill AFB, that it has officially completed its Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) decisions for future maintenance of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program. As generally expected, the Ogden Air Logistics Center (ALC) will be the site of major repair work for the Air Force's next generation of fighter. "This formal Air Force decision, while not totally unexpected, is nevertheless very good news and another impressive step for the Ogden ALC," Congressman Bishop said. "This helps cement Ogden's role as the nation's premier fighter depot, and will have a big impact on future employment in northern Utah. The development is particularly important for future workloads as the F-16 aircraft is eventually phased-out and the new F-22 and F-35 weapons systems come on-line." The AFMC decision designated the Ogden ALC as a primary source of depot maintenance and repair on F-35 airframes, associated doors, panels, covers, and control surfaces. According to the decision announcement, engine repairs and overhaul for the F-35 will be conducted in Oklahoma City, where engine work is currently handled for other Air Force aircraft. In an interesting connection noted by many, Hill AFB was previously designated by the Air Force as the location for the first operational wing of F-35's once they are built. "The fact that we're going to have the 388th Fighter Wing with F-35s and have the depot maintenance operation for F-35s here at Hill too gives us some real opportunities," Congressman Bishop said. "Since the F-35 is also being built with the cooperation of many of our partners, it's pretty likely that Ogden will provide worldwide support and expertise in keeping the F-35s in the air for decades to come." But, according to Representative Bishop who is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, all of the news surrounding the F-35 isn't necessarily good. The biggest challenge right now, he says, is just getting the F-35 actually built in sufficient numbers to begin fielding the aircraft. "We've put off seriously building this airplane for way too long, and Congress has refused to fund production of enough to meet our needs," the northern Utah lawmaker noted. "As a nation, we fell behind the aircraft modernization curve in an alarming way by decisions that were made starting in the 1990s under the Clinton Administration. We could have had F-35s flying by now, if we had stuck to the right modernization road-map. It's time to really step things up in terms of timeline and production." Mr. Bishop, who has long pushed for increased defense spending overall, added: "With each passing month, our current fighters – which are flying combat missions around the world - are getting older and we have nothing yet available to replace them. I believe that Congress and the next Administration need to significantly invest in the F-35 program so that we can begin to accelerate fielding of this remarkable weapons system in more realistic production rates. If we do, it will allow the United States to retain its air superiority for many years to come. Either way, though, I'm glad Utah and Hill are going to play such a key part in that important effort." ###
06.19.2008	Avoiding a shortfall in military spending that could have impacted personnel in Utah, Congress is set to pass a supplemental spending bill today that will fund troops at home and military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to information released by the office of Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah). The final troop funding agreement – which was announced yesterday and will be voted on today as an amendment to HR 2642 – comes just days before the military, according to sources on Capitol Hill, would have had to face the potential of cutting back on operations and manpower absent additional appropriations. "It took too long to finally approve this defense spending," Congressman Bishop said, "but this legislation is the right thing to do for our troops at home and abroad, and will make sure they have the resources they need and deserve." The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes Hill Air Force Base and a majority of Utah's military installations, added "Congress plays way too many political games when it comes to funding our military, and the majority leadership back here was cutting this one way too close, but I'm glad this agreement finally came together. And it came together without arbitrary timelines for withdrawal and without any tax increases." Certain Congressional Democrats had pushed for tax increases to offset the additional defense spending, but in the face of stiff opposition, those potential tax hikes were dropped from the final bill. The legislation also includes new spending on education and other benefits for American veterans, and no Washington-driven mandates, such as withdrawal timelines, for military leaders in the war zones. "[This bill] gets our troops the funding they need for success, without hamstringing our commanders in the field with politically motivated war restrictions," House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) said. "It provides new resources to help our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get a better education, without raising taxes unnecessarily on the American people." Even though the primary purpose of the legislation is to further fund military operations, the bill also includes a handful of domestic spending measures. These include an extension of unemployment benefits, with a Republican-backed work requirement added, and a provision that would ensure SCHIP funds are targeted to help neediest children first. Mr. Bishop, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee, added, "This still isn't a great way to legislate, but this funding had to pass and it had to pass now. Otherwise we were unnecessarily putting in jeopardy the livelihoods and safety of those who work every day to defend our country and keep us safe." ###
06.16.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives has given approval to H.R. 5658, the National Defense Authorization Act, which grants billions in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DOD), as well as sets policies, programs and funding levels for the nation's military. Utah Congressman Rob Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has announced that the annual defense bill also includes tens of millions of dollars in funding authorizations for military spending in Utah. "This bill provides for our national defense and gives our troops the funds and support they need," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes practically all of Utah's military installations, continued, "We had some good wins this year too in steering some important funding towards Hill Air Force Base, and with the great work that's done there, it's funding that is well-deserved." Some of the Utah highlights which Mr. Bishop helped secure include: • $5.65 million in Air Force military construction funding for a new 3-Bay Fire Station for Hill AFB. This project would be located on the East Side of the runway and provide more adequate fire protection for industrial and future operations on that side of the base, making future expansion of additional missions there possible. • $2 million for the Ogden Air Logistics Center/Hill AFB and the Science, Engineering and Laboratory Data Integration (SELDI) program. This ongoing program, funded for many years by Congress, allows Hill to gain access to important private sector engineering and IT support that help reduce repair costs and duplications in depot maintenance operations. Improvements in productivity can assist in obtaining future work as reflected in more efficient overhead rates. • $5 million in Air Force research and development funding for the Utah State University Space Dynamics Laboratory in developing Small, Low-Cost Satellites. This multi-year effort will lead to the design and fabrication of satellite components for customizable satellites that can be used in battlefield operations at a fraction of the cost of traditional satellite systems. • $5 million for the Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Crypto Upgrade program. Work on this program would likely occur at the Ogden Air Logistics Center, and involve the upgrading of digital cryptography systems onto the Minuteman III ICBM to improve the nuclear security of our nation's ICBM fleet, as well as reduce maintenance support costs of existing crypto systems which are over 40 years old. • $2 million for Tooele Army Depot for an Unserviceable Ammunition Demilitarization program. As one of the Army's main ammunition and munitions storage and supply depots, Tooele is also one of many locations nationwide responsible for the storage and eventual destruction of obsolete conventional munitions. This funding will help Tooele develop newer, more advanced and environmentally friendly methods of munitions disposal. • $5.5 million in Air Force funding for Supersonic Cruise Missile Engine Test and Development. Funding would be used to continue a multi-year effort in conjunction with Air Force Laboratory to develop our nation's first supersonic cruise missile. Russia and India recently announced that they had fielded a supersonic cruise missile, and the U.S., the originator of cruise missile technology, risks falling behind the technological curve if this effort is not continued. Ogden's Williams International is the provider of the engines and technology for the program. • Army Rail Shop Study. Report Language was included requiring the Army to study and report to Congress on alternatives for relocating its Rail Shop operations currently located in leased space at Hill AFB, to other locations, including Tooele Army Depot. This study is the first-step for the Army to implement a plan for relocation of the shop, hopefully to other locations within the State of Utah. Moving the location would help the Air Force proceed on the vital Westside Development project at Hill. Besides the project funding backed primarily by Congressman Bishop, the National Defense Authorization Act also included funding for Utah-specific items called for in the President's original budget, such as $41 million for Military Construction projects at Hill AFB and $17.5 million for the Utah National Guard at Camp Williams. The bill also fully funds programs with important Utah ties such as the F-22 and F-35 programs. In total, H.R. 5658 authorizes $602 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security functions of the Department of Energy. The bill also includes funding for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation would raise the pay rates of members of the armed forces by 3.9% and would prohibit the Department of Defense from increasing premiums and fees associated with TRICARE, the military's health plan for active duty and retired personnel. "I'm afraid it's pretty rare these days that Congress figures out how to fulfill one of its basic Constitutional duties, and do it in a truly bi-partisan way, but in this case that is pretty much what happened," Congressman Bishop said. "This isn't a perfect bill, and there are some things like cuts to missile defense that need to be fixed, but our fighting men and women deserve the kind of consensus support this legislation received. They do amazing work in helping keep America strong and secure, and this bill will help them in that cause." ###
06.16.2008	Taking advantage of the opportunity to show off much of what northern Utah has to offer, Congressman Rob Bishop finished playing host this week to a delegation made up of members of the US Congress and the German Parliament. The group, which numbered almost 50 including business and other political leaders, was in Utah for four days participating in a legislative exchange and public policy forum. "It was exciting to have this kind of impressive group in our backyard," Congressman Bishop said. "These folks are legislative leaders from America and Germany and put together they represent millions of constituents. I was honored to host them in Utah and participate in what was a very constructive exchange of ideas." The event, officially named the Congress-Bundestag Seminar, consisted of a number of policy forums where elected officials and government and private sector experts offered opinions, insights, and discussed potential solutions to domestic and international problems. Some of the topics covered included progress in Afghanistan, foreign policy towards China, bio-fuels and energy policy, religion in politics, trade regulation, and the future of NATO. Congressman Bishop added, "I think each of us left the conference with a broader perspective on a lot of these issues. There was a conviction that we can continue to work together for decent solutions – whether it's combating terrorism or producing better and more efficient energy." In addition to the policy sessions, Congressman Bishop made sure to include on the agenda a number of opportunities for the group of lawmakers to experience northern Utah. The group started their first full day in the Beehive State with a visit to the Family History Library of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, followed by lunch with Governor Jon Huntsman at the Governor's Mansion in Salt Lake. Two days later, after attending a live broadcast of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir in Salt Lake City, they were greeted by President Dieter F. Uchtdorf of the LDS Church's First Presidency, who grew up in Germany and was formerly chief pilot of Lufthansa German Airlines. But Congressman Bishop was not satisfied to have the group spend the entire time in Salt Lake City. "We realized when we were putting this whole conference together, that Rob felt very strongly about taking the whole group out of Salt Lake to really experience different parts of northern Utah," Bishop spokesman Scott Parker said. "Even if it added a little time or made logistics trickier, you could tell Rob was proud to show off what we have in the Top of Utah." Two of the northern highlights for the group were a tour of Fresenius Medical Care in Ogden and a visit to the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Box Elder County. Fresenius Medical Care, whose parent company is based in Germany, is a leading manufacturer of dialysis products and equipment. Members of the U.S. Congress and the German Parliament used the conference room at the Fresenius facility in Ogden for two different policy discussions, and were led by staff there on guided informational tours of the manufacturing plant. The lawmakers then drove from Ogden up to Brigham City for an in-depth tour, partly on air boats, of the Bird Refuge. Congressman Bishop used the tour of the refuge to help demonstrate to the group the positive impact man can have on the environment. "It's not every day you get multiple members of the Congress, let alone the German Parliament, up to places like Ogden or Brigham City," Congressman Bishop noted. "We wanted to show off northern Utah, but also show how our state was positively impacting things like health care and the environment." Some of the members participating in the five-day event from the U.S. side included Representatives Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Mike Turner (R-OH), Eni Faleomavaega (D-American Samoa) and Buck McKeon (R-CA), along with members of the Utah Congressional Delegation. The German Delegation was led by Parliament Member Hans-Ulrich Klose, and they were joined by Dr. Klaus Scharioth, German Ambassador to the United States. This annual conference is put on by the Congressional Study Group on Germany, of which Congressman Bishop currently serves as the Chairman, and is sponsored by the US Association of Former Members of Congress (USAFMC). The USAFMC is a non-profit, non-partisan, educational, research and social organization. Though it is a separate institution, it has been chartered by the United States Congress. According to the Association's website, the Study Group on Germany is one of the largest and most active organizations linking Members of the U.S. Congress to legislators of another country, in this case the German Bundestag. ###
06.16.2008	A bill sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop and Senator Orrin Hatch which would increase water supplies for Northern Utah, has been passed by Congress this week. The Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act authorizes the Secretary of Interior to conduct a feasibility study on increasing the height and capacity of the Watkins Dam at Willard Bay. Increasing the height of the dam would increase Willard Bay's storage capacity and provide more water for the expanding Wasatch Front population. "We all know that water is essential to our future in the West," Congressman Bishop said, "so we've got to be looking at options to develop that resource. Expanding Willard Bay's capacity makes a lot of sense, and that's what this bill can do for us." Willard Bay is an important water storage facility in Utah and the First District. With its 215,000 acre feet capacity, the water in Willard Bay meets the culinary and recreational needs of hundreds of thousands of residents in the northern Utah. As the population of the State continues to increase, the need for additional water storage capacity grows. Because of the size of Willard Bay, raising the dam by just a few feet could dramatically increase its capacity. The exact amount of additional storage will be determined by the feasibility study, but it could be an increase of as much as 50,000 or 70,000 acre feet. The legislation, which was passed by both the House and Senate as part of a package of resource-related bills, now heads to the President's desk. ###
06.16.2008	Congressman Rob Bishop has announced that the Ogden Hinckley Airport will soon be receiving a $2.1 million grant from the federal Department of Transportation. The grant, which comes in addition to moneys received last year for the same project, will provide final funding to finish construction of the new parallel taxiway to existing runway 3/21. "Just last year we were announcing some funding for this same airport project, and now the final phase can be completed," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes all of Weber County, added, "The completion of Phase 2 of the taxiway is good news for the County, for the airport, and for airport safety in general." Completing the new taxiway will increase safety at the airport by eliminating the need to back-taxi on the runway, a procedure requiring an aircraft to make a turn of 180 degrees at the end of a runway, utilizing it as a taxiway when no other option is available. The overall grant amount of $2,111,240 represents a mix of entitlement and discretionary funds administered by the Airport Improvement Program and will be distributed by the Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration. This amount is in addition to $2,560,687 awarded last year through this same process. ###
06.16.2008	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered and passed a measure that seeks to transfer federal lands currently held by the Bureau of Land Management within Camp Williams to the State of Utah for use by the National Guard. The legislation, introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) and referred to as the Utah National Guard Readiness Act, would allow the Utah National Guard to better control additional areas within Camp Williams in order to expand facilities and training. "The missions and role of the Utah National Guard continue to grow, and we can help them by making sure they have and control the land needed for that growth," Congressman Bishop said. HR 3651, which is co-sponsored by Utah's two other Congressmen, would transfer fee ownership of approximately 431 acres of federal land at Camp Williams to the State of Utah and the Utah National Guard, as identified in the Guard's master plan. The legislation will help consolidate checkerboard land ownership patterns in the area leading to more efficient management of the affected lands. The transfer is subject to a reverter that states that the lands must be used for National Guard or defense purposes. "The land in question here is already withdrawn by the feds for military use, so all we're doing is transferring it to the State, for the same use," Bishop added. "This will make expansion and any future upgrades by the Guard a lot easier and less costly." According to documents prepared by the National Guard, the land transfer will open up easier access to utilities and services necessary to support expanded development and military use. The reduced cost to bring these services into certain areas within Camp Williams represents a significant economic advantage when considering the cost of upgrading old and inadequate services already onsite. In testimony before the Natural Resources Committee on March 6, Colonel Scott Olson of the Utah National Guard warned that failure to transfer the lands referenced in the bill could have "several significant negative impacts." He added that with the bill the Guard would gain greater efficiency in planning and be able to negate the costs associated with a piecemeal approach to expansion. Representative Bishop, who sits on both the Natural Resources and Armed Services Committees, applauded the State of Utah and the National Guard for working constructively with his office on this legislation. "I'm proud of the training that takes place at Camp Williams and the military service the Guard provides around the world," he said. "And so I'm glad we can clarify who will own and control these areas within Camp Williams, so that the Guard can continue to grow and do what they do so well in protecting us and our country." A subcommittee hearing for the legislation and a subsequent full committee mark-up in the House Resources Committee were held in March of this year. The full House of Representatives then passed the bill out favorably Monday afternoon on a unanimous voice vote. The bill now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
06.16.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives considered and voted on the proposed Democratic budget for Fiscal Year 2009. Republican Congressman Rob Bishop opposed the budget and the tax increases it included, and he released the following statement following the vote: "Washington has a spending problem, and this Democratic budget only makes that problem much, much worse. To cover this excessive spending spree, this budget will impose the largest tax hike in American history - roughly $683 billion over 5 years - and there is no way I can support that. This budget is too big, too reckless, and will hurt too many taxpayers. I've looked at the numbers, and the negative financial impact this could have on average Utah families is alarming." According to figures released by members of the House Budget Committee, the average taxpayer in Utah will have to pay $2,651 more in taxes under this Democratic budget. This budget includes $683 billion in tax increases, mainly to finance hundreds of billions of dollars in new spending on federal programs. Some examples of how the Democrats' tax hikes would affect workers, families, and small businesses include: • Tax Increase of $500 per Child. Approximately 31 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $859 in 2011 – because the Democratic budget would cut the $1,000-per-child tax credit in half. • Family of Four Earning $60,000. This family would face a 70-percent tax hike, with their income tax bill rising from $2,733 to $4,634 in 2011 – an increase of $1,900. • Raising the 10-Percent Tax Rate Bracket to 15 Percent. More than 6 million individuals and families who previously owed no taxes would become subject to the individual income tax in 2011 if Democrats succeed in raising the 10-percent bracket to 15 percent, and reducing or eliminating other low-income tax benefits. • Reimposing the Marriage Penalty. Roughly 23 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $466 in 2011, because they are married. • Elderly Couple with $40,000 in Income. This couple's tax bill would rise by 156 percent in 2011 – from $583 to $1,489. ###
06.16.2008	The House Committee on Natural Resources has cleared a bill sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop which would enable a land exchange between Bountiful City and the U.S. Forest Service. The legislation, H.R. 3473, allows the Forest Service to increase the total federal acreage of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest by acquiring more than 1,600 acres currently owned by Bountiful but within the boundaries of the forest. In exchange, Bountiful is set to receive certain sections of land which are currently under Forest Service control but are adjacent to the city. "My goal in drafting this bill was to help both sides get lands they needed and wanted," Congressman Bishop said, "and to create a long term solution for managing these areas. I believe this legislation accomplishes both the letter and spirit of that goal." The bill, which has been in the works for three years, contains basically two main provisions. First, it directs an equal value exchange between Bountiful City and the U.S. Forest Service. Bountiful City owns 1,680 acres of land which are within the National Forest System. Following a required appraisal, these lands will be exchanged for part of a 220 acre parcel of U.S. Forest Service Land near the Bountiful City limits. This land is the home of the Bountiful Lions Club gun range and the Davis Aqueduct. Second, this bill allows for a process to move forward which will enable the Forest Service to deal with any of the land not consumed by this land exchange. "It will be great to help the Forest Service consolidate their lands, and really fill in some gaps that exist right now in the national forest," Congressman Bishop added. "And the new land for Bountiful will allow them to protect some of those assets up there, like the gun range and the aqueduct, and better control their own destiny. It really is a win-win situation, and I look forward to passage by the full House." The Bishop legislation, which has enjoyed broad support in Congress and was backed by the Bush Administration, now heads to the floor of the House of Representatives for consideration, though the timing of that potential vote has yet to be determined. ###
06.16.2008	Today in Washington, President Bush sent to the Congress his proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2009. While it is historic in its size, and there could be much to comment on, Republican Congressman Rob Bishop issued the following statement touching so far on only two portions of the proposed budget – portions which would have a direct impact in the Beehive State. Those statements are below. Defense Spending and Air Force Funding "I support the proposed increase in funding for our troops and our national defense. And the 7% or so increase I've seen proposed for the Air Force is particularly important to me, and to northern Utah." "So much of our success in battle and our security here at home comes from having cutting edge technologies protecting us in the air. But I think in some ways we've taken our military superiority in the skies for granted, and it's time we sent more resources this direction. Our fleet has never been as old as it is right now, but thankfully the next generation of planes and weapons systems we need is coming on line and it looks like this budget would fully fund them – which is a good thing. This increased Air Force funding would come at the right time, to the right place, and for the right people who are doing so much to keep America strong and free. And the increase in pay for members of the military is more than deserved and something we absolutely have to get done." Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program: "When there is so much of our land locked up by the feds and off the tax rolls, our counties in Utah struggle to fund basic services for our citizens. That's not a fair position in which to keep them, and so these county payments are a small effort to right this huge wrong. But the Administration's initial proposal is way too low." "Western members will continue to work, as we have in the past, to improve this amount and adequately fund this program. If we in the West can't get more control over our own lands and destiny, we at least need to be compensated more fully." "Looking at PILT down the road, it's very clear that we need to start thinking outside the box for a long-term solution, which would include allowing states to create more opportunities for themselves with the lands within their own borders." ###
01.28.2008	Upon hearing the news of the passing of LDS Church President Gordon B. Hinckley, Congressman Rob Bishop issued the following statement Sunday evening: "It seems each leader brings his own personal dimension to the Church which is needed at that particular time, and I believe President Hinckley's service was certainly an example of that. His influence will be felt for a long time to come. His spirituality, optimism and encouragement will certainly be missed by a world that is so in need of those types of qualities."
12.19.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has announced that the final Congressional spending bill of the year contains almost $50 million in funding for military construction projects in Utah. The projects, many of which were included in the President's original budget and all of which were backed by Congressman Bishop, represent significant investment in military infrastructure, predominantly at Hill Air Force Base in Weber and Davis Counties and the Dugway Proving Ground in Tooele County. The funding comes as part of the Omnibus spending bill that is before Congress this week. Under the legislation, $9.2 million will head to Hill AFB to build a consolidated Munitions Flight Facility for the 388th Fighter Wing. This project, which was specifically requested by Representative Bishop as well as Senator Hatch and Senator Bennett, will increase efficiency by replacing deficient buildings and spaces scattered along the flightline into one modern, consolidated facility. This will result in a safer environment for personnel working with live munitions, as well as reduce the risks of exposure to electrical and environmental hazards. "This consolidated facility for the 388th is going to really enhance the wing's operations," Congressman Bishop said, "and it'll give them the top-of-the-line outfit and support they deserve to keep doing their job as well as anybody in the entire Air Force." The legislation also includes $8.4 million for a new state-of-the-art 21,000 square foot facility for repairing and salvaging components for all types of aircraft, as well as $8.4 million for a Hydraulic Flight Control Facility. Both of these projects will lead to cost savings for the Department of Defense which will likely cover the initial expenditures in roughly a two year timeframe. The Air Force Reserve at Hill will also be receiving some help, in the form of $3.2 million for a Wing Support Facility. This facility will help consolidate operations and assist the troops in mobilizing for military training or operations. Not to be left out, Dugway Proving Ground is also set to receive a much needed upgrade because of this legislation. Congressman Bishop successfully requested $5 million for new on-base family housing, consisting of approximately two dozen new family units at the Base's "English Village" housing area. The northern Utah lawmaker commented, "This project represents the first major re-investment into Dugway infrastructure and quality of life in nearly two decades – and it's going to add to the quality of life there in a big way." Finally, the Utah National Guard will also be receiving some much-needed construction funding as part of this omnibus spending bill. $12.1 million has been targeted for construction of a Readiness Center in North Salt Lake. It will provide new space for the 85th Civil Support Team, Engineering and Military Intelligence units, and storage of major military equipment. "I've said it before, but Utah really does lead the way in so many areas when it comes to our national defense," Congressman Bishop added, "and so this military construction funding headed our way is not just good news for the state but also for the entire country. Our fighting men and women deserve the best facilities and support we can provide." ###
12.19.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop has announced that the US House has blocked efforts to get rid of an existing statute which protects the Utah Test and Training Range. The current provision, commonly referred to as the Hansen Moratorium, protects the land around the range from development, including the potential storage of high level nuclear waste nearby on the Goshute Reservation.Under a recently-passed Senate version of the annual Defense Authorization Bill, the statute was scheduled to sunset, or in other words be rescinded, within six years. But Congressman Bishop, whose district includes the training range, fought to have that sunset provision removed in the final version of the legislation passed last night by the full House of Representatives."The range needs to be protected," Congressman Bishop said, "and it needs to be protected long term. While preserving the Hansen moratorium protection for six more years was good, it wasn't good enough, so I'm glad we were successful in defeating that proposed sunset."Bishop was aided in his work to preserve the range protections by Utah's two other Congressmen, Chris Cannon and Jim Matheson, who have come together in the past to defend Utah's military interests. Mr. Bishop added, "I appreciate Representative Cannon and Representative Matheson both helping out in this effort, at just the right times and with just the right approach."The House and Senate had recently passed differing versions of the Defense Authorization Bill, which grants billions in budget authority for the Department of Defense, as well as sets policies, programs and funding levels for the nation's military. But it was only this week that the final version reconciling the differences came up for a final vote.Congressman Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, previously announced that the bill also includes tens of millions of dollars in funding authorizations for military-related projects in Utah, many at Hill Air Force Base. ###
10.24.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an amendment sponsored by Congressman Rob Bishop that will ensure there will be no federal infringement of Second Amendment rights on certain public lands.The provision, which came in the form of the Republican Motion to Recommit on H.R. 1483, a bill to expand and create certain National Heritage Areas, stipulates that all designated lands within these areas would be exclusively governed by state and local laws regarding hunting, fishing, and the possession or use of a weapon, trap, or net."What we're basically saying is that on these public lands, state and local firearm and hunting laws come first and will be enforced," Congressman Bishop said. "This amendment makes an important clarification that local and state ordinances will have primacy, and that the rights which so many have enjoyed on these lands for generations will not be threatened by federal action." The northern Utah lawmaker, who sits on the House Resources Committee, added, "This was a win for states' rights and for individual rights."The Bishop language was added to the underlying legislation, the Celebrating America's Heritage Act, by a vote of 344-71. H.R. 1483, as amended, now heads to the U.S. Senate for further action.###
10.24.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) has introduced legislation to help Mantua City obtain more land within city limits, by conveying to the city land currently owned by the federal government. The conveyed land could be used to develop a new city cemetery, construct a new town hall and fire station, and even serve as the home of a future elementary school."Mantua City has some challenges and needs, and they need just a little more space to meet some of those," Congressman Bishop said. "The parcels of land we're talking about are pretty small, but they would make a big difference for the town."The Bishop bill, the Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act of 2007, would transfer to Mantua three parcels of existing Forest Service land, for a total of 31 acres. "These lands have sat vacant for decades, and no one can see a legitimate reason why they should be in federal control," the Northern Utah lawmaker noted, "so we should help Mantua out by letting the city make good use of these areas."The parcels of land identified by the legislation are located on the south end of town below 100 South and west of Main Street and Willard Peak Road. They are bounded on three sides by privately held land, roads and other development. The land was originally owned by Box Elder County and was deeded to the U.S. Forest Service in 1941 for $1.00.Representative Bishop, whose district encompasses all of Box Elder County, continued, "This land was basically given to the feds by the county in 1941, and now all we're saying is local government needs the land back for justifiable governmental purposes."Since the land was given to the federal government by what is known as a quitclaim deed, the legislation directs the land be conveyed back "without consideration," which means that the City of Mantua would not have to pay for the acquired land. The bill does require, though, that the city bear some of the costs associated with the land survey and actual conveyance which would be accrued by the Forest Service.The Bishop legislation, H.R. 3849, was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives this week, where the Congressman began immediately to push for legislative hearings on the issue. ###
10.18.2007	Well, now that the games are over, we need to reauthorize the SCHIP program with a bill that's properly funded and targets help to poor kids first. We could learn a lot along those lines by watching how the State of Utah runs this program. Hopefully Washington will learn the same lessons. The House completely wasted the last two weeks, playing politics while we all waited for an outcome everyone knew was inevitable and wouldn't lead to anything good. Hopefully now we can move on and reach a legitimate compromise.
09.26.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop (UT01) today issued the following statement on H.R. 967, the latest Democratic bill to re-authorize and extensively expand the SCHIP program:"I'm still waiting for a major issue to come along where the Democratic leadership doesn't take a nice idea and really mess it up. This program needs to be re-authorized, but it needs to be done correctly and in a way that gets help to those who need it most. This latest Democrat proposal spends billions that aren't there, it potentially crowds out private insurers, and it expands this program way too far beyond its intended target. This bill basically lays the groundwork for more government control of health care. Its funding mechanism is a complete budget gimmick – calling for a massive cut in the program in just a few years. And it even weakens current standards that keep illegal aliens from abusing the system. This bill is poor policy, but fortunately there is a better option out there. I've co-sponsored a bill that would simply extend the current SCHIP program for 18 more months and actually fund it at a slightly higher rate than today, giving Congress more time to work out a more logical and more bi-partisan solution for this program. We need time to step back from this closed-door proposal, and come up with a re-authorized SCHIP program that is financially sound and is targeted to help insure the kids who really need it."###
06.27.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives has approved, by voice vote, an eminent domain provision filed by Congressman Rob Bishop which would protect private property rights near public lands. The amendment, made to the Interior Appropriations bill currently under consideration by the House, prohibits the federal land agencies from using funds contained in the annual spending bill to condemn land."In light of the Kelo decision and the abuse of eminent domain, Congress must set the example on the importance of property rights," Congressman Bishop said. "While there are legitimate uses for eminent domain, the Department of the Interior too often uses the threat of condemnation to persuade landowners into becoming ‘willing sellers.' This amendment removes that threat and protects our constituents."During discussion of the amendment, Mr. Bishop noted that the Kelo v. The City of New London case raised public awareness about the rampant abuses of eminent domain. The Utah lawmaker, whose home state is dominated by federal land holdings, added that the mere threat by federal agencies to use eminent domain usually results in property owners handing over their property for less than it is worth. For the benefit of some of his colleagues, Representative Bishop had earlier cited examples of citizens living within or near national parks, forests, and public lands constantly battling an army of land planners, bureaucrats, and skilled lawyers determined to take their property.Congressman Bishop also submitted an amendment to shift roughly $32 million in the bill to beef up border security on federal lands, but that amendment failed. This Bishop amendment was based on the clear and repeated damage to public lands inflicted by illegal immigration along the southern U.S. border. The reported damage threatens endangered species, protected resources, and visitor access to public lands, and in some cases has caused catastrophic fires.The final amendment sponsored by Representative Bishop would have prohibited funds in the bill from being disbursed to 501(c)(3) organizations that are party to lawsuits against the agency from which they are seeking funds. Mr. Bishop pointed out that there are many cases where government agencies are inadvertently funding litigation against themselves, which quickly becomes a self-perpetuating problem and funding mechanism that hurts the American taxpayer. This amendment was not adopted. ###
06.27.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved, by voice vote, an amendment submitted by Reps. Chris Cannon and championed by Congressman Rob Bishop to redirect $20 million to increase funding for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program in 2007. Through PILT, the Interior Department makes payments to counties to make up for property taxes counties can not collect on federal lands located within their boundaries."We have to lessen the local burden of federal land ownership, and this amendment does just that," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, who serves as the top Republican on the Parks and Public Lands Subcommittee, added, "When a majority of their lands are locked away, our counties struggle to produce enough revenue just to survive and provide essential services. PILT is simply a small effort to right this huge wrong. We were successful last year in joining with our Western colleagues and increasing PILT funding and I'm glad we could do it again. It's still not enough, but we are moving in the right direction."Because local governments are unable to tax the property values or products derived from federal lands, PILT payments support vital community services such as education, environmental compliance, law enforcement, health care, search and rescue operations, and other important community services.Mr. Cannon sponsored the successful amendment today which was also backed by Representatives Udall, Salazar, Matheson and Musgrave. ###
05.24.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced that he has secured tens of millions of dollars in funding authorizations for military spending in Utah as part of HR 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act, which was passed today by the US House of Representatives.The legislation, which authorizes $508 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DOD), sets policies, programs and funding levels for the nation's military and also includes a list of priority projects in the Beehive State set to receive funding."This bill is for our troops, to give them the support and infrastructure they need to do their job of defending America," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes practically all of Utah's military installations, continued, "I'm proud of our soldiers, and they deserve the best equipment, the highest level of support, and the most financial resources we can put together. I'm also proud to secure so much funding for defense projects in Utah. These programs demonstrate Utah is on the front lines and the cutting edge when it comes to our national defense and security. Our installations and personnel are second to none, and the money authorized for our state will be good, not just for our economy, but for our future security and preparedness."Below are details on some of the projects from the bill which Congressman Bishop requested and pushed, which will positively impact Utah's military installations and defense sector: $5 million in Army Military Construction dollars for Phase One of Family Housing Replacement project at Dugway Proving Grounds. This is the first-phase of a $25 million project. Phase One will fund 32 housing units, and represents the start of a significant re-investment into the quality of life and infrastructure for Dugway. (pg. 505, line 764 of report). $10 million for Supersonic Cruise Missile engine qualification and testing. (pg. 195, line 41, of report). $ 2 Million for Science, Engineering, and Laboratory Data (SELDI) program. Will directly help Ogden ALC with data collection and information technology which will help reduce repair costs and duplications in the depot system. (pg. 125 of report). Tooele Army Depot; $3.4 million for the Resource Recovery and Recycle program. Will allow for construction of a recycling facility at Tooele to recycle conventional munitions and energetics; converting them to commercially-viable fertilizer products. Also will provide additional workload for Tooele employees. (pg. 151, line 41 of report). Commercial Technologies for Maintenance Activities (CTMA): This is an ongoing program in DoD which allows the maintenance depots (like Ogden ALC) to tap into these funds to purchase state-of-the art equipment, industrial processes, and training, for integration into their operations. This money has been a catalyst in the past for bringing Ogden ALC up to speed in cutting-edge areas. Not targeted specifically to any particular depot, but Ogden will certainly benefit. Total authorized was $16 million. (pg. 295 of report). C-17 Globemaster Aircraft: Committee authorized $2.4 billion in funding for an additional 10 aircraft in FY'08. (pg. 110 of report). Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI) $14 million was secured for this on-going government-industry partnership aimed at lowering cost for specialty metals (like beryllium) in defense systems. (pg. 215 of report). Public-Private Partnership Report – Congressman Bishop's amendment was accepted which will require the DoD to compile a report on how to eliminate disparate criteria among different military bases with potential private sector partners at government depots. The goal is that the report will spur changes to standardize criteria and thereby facilitate such public-private partnering in the future. (Section 357 of H.R. 1585, see report at pg. 313). Working Capital Fund Changes - Mr. Bishop's amendment was accepted which will revise DoD financial management regulations to allow depots to borrow higher amounts from the depot working capital fund, for "product improvements" when undertaking depot maintenance, allowing for incorporation of the latest technology; improving performance and lowering costs. (Section 322, see report at pg. 306). Surviving Spouses and Dependents of 100% Disabled Veterans: The chairman's mark included language from Congressman Bishop which requires the DoD to ensure access to the defense commissary and exchange system, to the surviving spouses and dependents of a 100% disabled veteran, even if that disabled rating was issued by the VA posthumously. (Section 651 of H.R. 1585, see page 343 of report). Continuation of Orders for Utah National Guard Linguists: The chairman's mark included language aimed at addressing the problem at the Utah National Guard with its linguist/intelligence personnel, who are running up against a 3-year time limit for being on active-duty order. Concern is that the limit will cause these personnel to separate from the guard, and that we'll lose their specialized language experience. Section 416 requires the DoD to study the issue and to report back to Congress. (See pg. 320 of report).Other items in the overall bill which will benefit Utah installations and personnel: HILL AFB PROJECTS -$8.4 million for Aircraft Power Systems Repair Facility -$8.4 million for Hydraulic Flight Control Facility -$3.2 million for Reserve Wing support facility UTAH ARMY NATIONAL GUARD -$12.1 million for new armory ("readiness reserve center") in North Salt Lake OTHER F-22 and F-35 programs were fully funded per the President's budget. Additional funding for Senior Scout (Utah Air National Guard) equipment. Provisions leveling the playing field for benefit of government depot workers in public-private "A-76" competitions. Sensible revisions to the proposed National Personnel System (NSPS) at the DoD, which help ensure appeal rights to government workers. Funds pay raises and bonus pay for active duty and reserve forces. Items not taken care of: The Democrats cut ballistic missile defense programs by $800 million, even amid ongoing threats from North Korea and Iran. Aircraft replacement is too low. Defense procurement budgets must be more robust to allow for accelerated production of F-22 and F-35, and new tanker, in order to replace aging aircraft.###
05.22.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop has announced that the Ogden Hinckley Airport will soon be receiving a $2.5 million grant from the federal Department of Transportation. The grant will provide funding to construct a new parallel taxiway to existing runway 3/21. "This funding represents the next step in making Ogden Hinckley an even better, more efficient airport facility," Congressman Bishop said. The northern Utah lawmaker, whose district includes all of Weber County, continued, "I'm proud of the steady stream of improvements at the airport, and am confident this new taxiway will be money well spent and will improve the overall safety there." Building the new taxiway will increase safety at the airport by eliminating the need to back-taxi on the runway, a procedure requiring an aircraft to make a turn of 180 degrees at the end of a runway, utilizing it as a taxiway when no other option is available. The overall grant amount of $2,560,687 represents a mix of entitlement and discretionary funds and will be distributed by the Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration. ###
05.22.2007	A bill sponsored by GOP Congressman Rob Bishop, which would increase water supplies for Northern Utah, passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. HR 839, the Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act, authorizes the Secretary of Interior to conduct a feasibility study on increasing the height and capacity of the Watkins Dam. Raising the height of the dam would increase Willard Bay's storage capacity and provide more water for the expanding Wasatch Front population. Willard Bay is an important water storage facility in Utah and the First District. With its 215,000 acre feet capacity, the water in Willard Bay meets the culinary and recreational needs of hundreds of thousands of residents in the Top of Utah. "The more time passes, the more water we need in Utah," Congressman Bishop said. "Increasing our storage capacity makes sense, and it will bring benefits right now and for decades to come. Water is essential to our future in the West, and this bill ensures we'll have more of that precious resource down the road." As the population of Northern Utah grows, the need for additional water storage capacity is acute. Because of the size of Willard Bay, raising the dam by just a few feet could dramatically increase its capacity. The exact amount of additional storage will be determined by the feasibility study, but it could be an increase of as much as 50,000 or 70,000 acre feet. An earlier version of the bill, HR 3626 from the previous Congress, cleared the House last year, but did not come up for a final vote in the Senate. The proposal was reintroduced in both chambers in February of this year, with Senator Hatch as the lead sponsor of the Senate version. That bill, S 512, has been referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. ###
05.22.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives has passed HR 838, legislation introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop which transfers more than 100 acres of federal land to Park City to be used for open space and public recreation. The parcels of land, commonly known as White Acre and Gambel Oak, are currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The land transfer would add significantly to city-owned open space within Park City. "This bill does three good things," Congressman Bishop said. "It helps settle long-term concerns over the future of these lands, it preserves some important open space, and it gives control and access for these lands to those closest to it, the leaders and citizens of the city." In 1975, the BLM completed a comprehensive study of BLM lands in and around Park City. As part of the study, several parcels of land were identified as suitable for disposal or transfer to other entities. Nearly 30 years have passed since the completion of the study. Meanwhile, development in and around Park City has increased the value of the cited lands and the value of and need for open space. Consistent with these goals and with the help of Park City leaders, two parcels of land were identified for conveyance. Bishop, who originally announced the legislative concept during a town council meeting in Park City, expressed gratitude for the hard work of city leaders and other parties involved. Bishop commented, "I am amazed that something as simple and straightforward as this has taken so much time and effort, but a lot of people have helped along the way. The teamwork from leaders of Park City and others interested in this outcome has been critical. They deserve to have this land transfer go through." The Gambel Oak parcel, with 88.5 acres, and the White Acre parcel, containing 20 acres, are both located within the Park City limits and are surrounded by development. Preserving them as open space preserves the unique view shed and leaves the land open for wildlife habitat and recreation. Language in the bill states that all land must be maintained as undeveloped open space and be available only for public recreation purposes. Additionally, Park City may construct necessary recreational facilities on the land, such as signs, needed utilities, and trails. The bill also directs the Secretary of Interior to offer for sale, through a competitive bidding process, two other specified parcels of BLM property in Park City. The proceeds derived from this sale will go towards environmental restoration projects on lands within the BLM Salt Lake City Field Office. An earlier version of the bill, HR 3462 from the previous Congress, cleared the House last year, but did not come up for a final vote in the Senate. The proposal was reintroduced in both chambers in February of this year, with Senator Hatch as the lead sponsor of the Senate version. That bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. ###
03.23.2007	Today, First District Congressman Rob Bishop learned he would receive three prime Committee assignments as part of the new 108th Congress that started this week. The first term Congressman, whose district spans Utah's northern third from Juab County in the west around to Summit County in the east and then to the Idaho border, will sit on the House Armed Services Committee, the House Resources Committee and the House Science Committee. "I am excited with these assignments which represent a good cross section of Utah's priorities. Whether protecting the future of our military bases, promoting balanced management of our natural resources, or expanding opportunities for Utah's high-technology economy, these Committees will be where the action is," said Congressman Bishop. "There were a lot of us who worked hard to win these assignments for Utah and I intend to work even harder on these Committees." The House Armed Services Committee has jurisdiction over all military spending, as well as policies impacting military and Department of Defense civilian personnel, and military basing decisions. The Committee controls an annual budget over $380 billion. The House Resources Committee has jurisdiction over all federal public lands, including national parks, national forests, federally designated wilderness, BLM lands, and federal Indian reservations. The Committee also oversees water policy, mining law and environmental regulations such as the Endangered Species Act. The House Science Committee has jurisdiction over a wide range of federal agencies and science and technology programs, including NASA and the National Academy of Sciences. Bishop concluded, "There is a lot to do and even more to learn; but I look forward to rolling up my sleeves and getting to work on each of these important Committees. These assignments are a great sign that the interests of Utah's First District will be defended in Washington."
03.23.2007	First District Congressman Rob Bishop released today the following statement regarding the Space Shuttle disaster: "Today is a sad day for all Americans, as we join in mourning with the families of those brave astronauts who have been lost. Our thoughts and prayers are with all involved at this time, including the thousands of Utahns whose important skills directly benefit the Shuttle program. Today's tragedy is a reminder of the courage and commitment of our NASA flight crews and support teams - we should always be proud of their heroism and patriotism. I am confident that we who are left behind will learn from this loss and that America's space programs will fix any problems and move forward. Space exploration and experimentation are critically valuable to our nation. I know of no better way to honor those seven who sacrificed their lives today than to recommit ourselves to defend and enhance America's important strategies in space."
03.23.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop released the following statement this evening upon the conclusion of President Bush's remarks to the Nation: "Now is the time when all Americans should unite. The debate is concluding and the diplomatic avenues have been exhausted. The Bush administration has bent over backwards to allow the Iraqi regime ample time to comply with the intended requirements. The ball always was and still is in Saddam's court. Even now he could avert war by complying with the 48-hour deadline; and I hope he will. I support President Bush and will continue to support our military in this action. "I am committed to America's military and recognize the heavy role Utah plays in regards to Reservist and National Guard forces. We should be very grateful and proud of their service. I am confident that Congress will do all we can to support those who are fighting for freedom around the world."
03.23.2007	During an organizational meeting here Wednesday, the Western Caucus unanimously approved the selection of Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT01) to serve as Caucus Secretary. The election by the Executive Committee places the Utah Republican among the leadership of this member organization, joining his fellow GOP colleague from Utah, Representative Chris Cannon, who chairs the caucus. The Caucus champions interests unique to the West, and is known as a defender of public lands access, private property rights, wise natural resource development, workable environmental regulations, and the enhancement of water and energy supplies."I've had the pleasure to work with Rob for years on Western issues in Utah. I am excited for this new opportunity to work together," Chairman Cannon said.Congressman Bishop responded to the appointment by saying, "I appreciate this chance to serve my fellow House members from our region and to help defend the interests of all Westerners. The West needs a strong voice out here to protect us from constant threats to our rights and way of life. The Western Caucus is positioned to be that voice and I'm happy to join their ranks."Bishop added, "I'm particularly grateful to Chairman Cannon for this chance to serve; and I share his enthusiasm for these issues. When I was Speaker of the State House, we organized the Western States Coalition to protect the distinct interests of the West. I'm grateful to Chris for the opportunity to re-join that fight, now at the federal level."The selection to the position of secretary is for the duration of the 108th Congress, essentially a two-year term ending in early 2004. Bishop was previously named by House Leadership to the Armed Services Committee, Science Committee and Resources Committee for the 108th Congress. He will continue to serve on those committees.
03.23.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop, today, expressed his dismay over Western Watersheds Project's suit against the BLM to cancel grazing permits on 1.5 million acres of federal land in Utah. "I am disappointed that the Western Watersheds Project, a self-appointed group from outside Utah, has decided to engage the BLM and ranchers in my district in yet another costly and frivolous lawsuit," said Congressman Bishop. The freshman lawmaker also challenged comments by John Carter, a member of the WWP. Bishop stated, "Perhaps John Carter cares more about litigation in the courts rather than risk having his rhetoric ring hollow in the public legislative process. I find it extremely disingenuous that these same self-proclaimed environmental groups sit in their boardrooms outside of Utah determining how to destroy Western values, while the good people of Utah, who are reliant upon access to federal land to provide for their families, find their livelihoods slowly being destroyed. True conservationists try to improve and protect the land. These radical groups only propose locking up the land and throwing away the key." As a new member of the House Committee on Resources and the Subcommittee on National Parks, Public Lands, and Recreation, the Congressman has already established as a priority defending Utah's farmers and ranchers from both the federal government and over-zealous and misguided environmental groups. The Utah Republican, who also serves as Secretary of the Western Caucus in the U.S House, stated, "I will work to stop the abuse of our court system and the agencies which are charged with protecting our public lands. Local people who are closest to the land and make a living off of it are the ones who best know how to manage and protect it. It's just common sense."
03.23.2007	Making good on a campaign pledge to lower the federal tax burden for Utah families, Republican Congressman Rob Bishop voted today in support of H.R. 2 - the Jobs and Growth Reconciliation Tax Act of 2003. The bill, which is the product of President Bush's efforts to get Congress to pass an economic growth package this year, contains $550 billion in tax cuts and rate reductions over the next eleven years. "When I was campaigning for this office, I promised to go back to Washington and cut taxes," stated Congressman Bishop. "I am happy to fulfill that commitment today. I firmly believe that the best way to stimulate our economy and create jobs is to let hard-working Americans keep more of their money - after all, the money belongs to them, not to Washington." Commenting on the acceleration of Bush's 2001 tax cuts, Representative Bishop added "I'm particularly proud of the immediate benefits so many Utah families will receive under this plan. Increasing the child credit and increasing the standard deduction for married couples filing jointly are the right things to do and I'm glad those changes will take effect this year." The bill, which passed the House today by a vote of 222-203, does not include every provision requested by President Bush but is viewed as a victory for Bush's overall economic plan. Congressman Bishop commented, "I'm glad to stand with President Bush today and support his economic growth agenda. Although the tax cuts passed by the House are not as large as I would have liked, I think both Congress and now our economy are headed in the right direction."
03.23.2007	Following weeks of work, the full House Armed Services Committee, on which Congressman Rob Bishop sits, passed out favorably late last night H.R. 1588, the FY04 National Defense Authorization Act. The latest version of the bill, which is the annual authorizing legislation for the Department of Defense, includes many provisions important to Utah and Utah's military installations. Representative Bishop stated, "This has been a tough process but I'm glad we have been able to accomplish what we have so far for Utah and particularly for Hill Air Force Base. This is a first step in a continuing effort to ensure Utah's viability in any base realignment decisions that will be made in the future. My top two priorities - which go hand in hand - have always been protecting our national defense and defending our local military installations. It feels good to move forward some initiatives for our fighting men and women who have done so much for us." Below are details of items that have been secured so far as the bill received committee approval: For Hill Air Force Base: $13 million to replace munitions storage igloos $1.8 million for a small diameter bomb igloo $1 million for a munitions maintenance facility $531,000 for planning and design of an AEF Deployment Center.For Dugway Proving Grounds: $8.1 million for improvements to existing family housingMr. Bishop, with colleagues on the Readiness Subcommittee and in the House Depot Caucus, also helped to successfully prevent language from being added to the bill that would have modified federal code to allow for the shifting of more government depot maintenance work to the private sector. Bishop stated, "As we enter another round of BRAC, defeating proposals like this that would threaten the viability of depots and jobs at Hill is extremely important." Chairman Duncan Hunter, of the House Armed Services Committee, had the following to say regarding the efforts of the freshman from Utah: "I am grateful to Representative Bishop for his hard work in advancing this important legislation. As we went through this process, Rob's commitment to our national security and national defense, as well as to the military installations in Utah, became very clear. Our military personnel are fighting hard for us, and I can tell Congressman Bishop is doing all he can to fight for them." Though clearing a large hurdle with Armed Services Committee approval, H.R. 1588 must still be taken up by the full House of Representatives and then addressed in a possible conference committee with the Senate before final passage.
03.23.2007	As part of National Missing Children Day earlier this week, Congressman Rob Bishop was pleased to present Box Elder County Detective Larry A. Johnston with the National Missing Children Award. The award, which is reserved for those who have demonstrated excellence in solving crimes against children, was given to Detective Johnston during a ceremony in the U.S. House of Representatives Cannon Building on May 21. Detective Johnston was instrumental in solving the much-publicized Mark Steven Jensen case. Jensen was charged with the rape of two young girls and the murder and rape of another. Immediately after the crimes were committed, Johnston had a sketch composite created of the suspect and pleaded for public help with the case. He also had a DNA sample taken from the crime seen which later linked Jensen to all three victims. "It was a great opportunity to present Detective Johnston with this award," said Congressman Bishop. "He has demonstrated true heroism in solving these crimes. I feel safe knowing that Detective Johnston, and others like him, are working hard to protect my family as well all the other children throughout the Northern Utah area." The Eighth Annual National Missing and Exploited Children's Awards ceremony follows the highly publicized signing by President Bush of the National Amber Alert Bill last month. John Walsh, child advocate, and many other members of Congress were also in attendance for the Awards Ceremony.
03.23.2007	Joining with 280 of his House colleagues today, Republican Congressman Rob Bishop voted in favor of HR 760, the Partial Birth Abortion Ban of 2003. This legislation, which is identical to a partial birth abortion prohibition bill passed last year in the House, bans the partial-birth abortion procedure in which an intact living fetus is partially delivered, then killed and the delivery completed. "Although I find abortion in any form immoral and inhumane, partial birth abortion is particularly heinous to me and to a majority of Americans," stated Congressman Bishop. "The procedure, which involves stabbing a viable baby's skull and suctioning out its brains, is almost too graphic to even describe. I find this practice abhorrent and believe that the majority of evidence before Congress demonstrates that a partial birth abortion is never necessary to preserve the health of a woman." Though passed by Congress multiple times, the ban on this method of abortion was vetoed by President Clinton on two separate occasions. Representative Bishop added, "It's nice to have a conservative President in the White House who supports banning this atrocious procedure. I also believe the Congress has been adequately careful in addressing concerns raised by the Supreme Court recently. I'm happy to know President Bush will soon have on his desk a solid bill that does the morally right thing and will stand the test of the courts. Today the House took a stand for decency and humanity in passing this legislation and banning these late-term abortions."
03.23.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop announced that the Secretary of Interior Gale Norton will be releasing today payments to all ten counties in the First District as part of the federal government's Payments-In-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program for Fiscal Year 2003. The PILT Program was designed as an attempt to partially compensate counties that contain large portions of federal land that are not subject to local taxes, and thus generate no tax revenue. "Trying to mitigate the financial impact to these counties which have so much land under federal control is the right thing to do," said Representative Bishop. "These counties deserve the money, and, quite honestly, deserve the land. Though compensating local government is good, Utah will always have a difficult time adequately funding citizen services and needs until Utah controls the decision of how to use Utah lands." Commenting on the almost two-thirds of all land in the State of Utah that is owned and controlled by the federal government, Mr. Bishop added, "I appreciate Secretary Norton's efforts to release these critical funds and to do it early, but we should not lose sight of the fact that the Governor of our state still manages less of Utah than this one federal department. This just doesn't seem right." Tooele County, home to huge tracts of federal land, will receive the highest payment of any county in the state this year, with a total of $1,739,102 from PILT funds. Box Elder County is second on the list of highest payment recipients, and will collect $1,625,703 under this program. The remainder of the payments to counties in the First District is as follows: $335,179 to Cache County; $42,070 to Davis County; $19,420 to Morgan County; $173,539 to Rich County; $616,852 to Summit County; and $83,140 to Weber County. Salt Lake County and Juab County, which are split between congressional districts in Utah, will receive $118,053 and $614,917 respectively. The PILT payments, which are administered by the Bureau of Land Management, may be used by the counties for any governmental purpose. Many rural counties rely on these funds to help pay for vital services such as building and maintaining quality schools, good roads, and adequate water supplies.
03.23.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop, joining his Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives today, voted to permanently repeal the estate tax, commonly referred to as the death tax. The tax cut package passed by Congress in 2001 repealed the estate tax, but the repeal was set to expire at the end of 2010. H.R. 8, which passed the House 264-163 today, permanently eliminates the tax altogether. Representative Bishop issued the following statement shortly after this significant vote: "This Republican Congress has been very active this year in passing meaningful tax relief for all Americans. Today's vote to permanently repeal the death tax is yet another step in the right direction to lessen the heavy tax burden on Utah families, small businesses, farms and ranches. There is no question that the estate tax was, at the root, double taxation on money and assets that had already been taxed. When families work hard for decades to build a business or maintain a ranch, we should not tax them as they try to pass these dreams on to the next generation. This tax was anti-business, anti-family, and in direct conflict to the American dream. By permanently eliminating this tax, we have not only lowered taxes for Utah families, we have brought predictability and stability to what was an uncertain process for families to try and plan for their futures. Americans are taxed from the cradle to the grave. Earlier, we increased the child tax credit to remove some of the burden at the cradle. And now we've eliminated the estate tax to reduce the financial penalty at death."
03.23.2007	Joining with almost 400 of his House colleagues, Congressman Rob Bishop voted Tuesday evening in favor of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2004, providing America's military with the increased funding they need to keep our nation secure. The freshman Republican from Utah successfully worked to have included in the final version a specific provision benefiting Hill Air Force Base. Under the current bill passed last night, $250,000 will be allocated for an advanced aircraft detection program at Hill. The bill, H.R. 2658, which appropriates levels for military expenditures, contains an overall increase of over $4 billion more in discretionary spending than last year. It is considered a vital step towards continued funding of America's war on terrorism and efforts for security throughout the world. Congressman Bishop stated: "The recent actions abroad have proven once again that America still has the best, most-committed military in the world. I am proud to help pass appropriations that will get our military leaders and our fighting men and women the increased resources they deserve and need to keep America strong and free. And any money we can point in Hill's direction is good not only for the state, but for our national security as well."
03.23.2007	With Congress reconvening this week after its August recess, Republican Representative Rob Bishop announced today funding for several projects in Utah's First Congressional District. The money, set aside in provisions of the House VA-HUD and Interior Appropriations bills completed earlier this year, is slated for use in fiscal year 2004 and will be used to fund a variety of projects in Northern Utah. The projects and their funding amounts are: • $800,000 for completion of the Chalk Creek (Blonquist) tract acquisition. These funds will be used to acquire a 1,265 acre tract of forested land adjacent to the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Park City. The acquisition, administered under the Forest Legacy Program by the Trust for Public Land, will assist in the protection of critical watershed areas, as well as unique wildlife and extensive aspen and conifer forests.• $400,000 for improvements to the Spiro and Judge Water Tunnels in Summit County. These improvements will enhance water treatment facilities that provide much of the drinking water for Park City.• $225,000 to Tremonton City for the development of an historic wagon museum commonly referred to as "Buggy Town." The museum project, which has been in the works for several years, will get a jump-start from these federal planning and design funds. Eli Anderson, the local resident spearheading the wagon facility, hopes that the eventual museum will lay claim to the largest collection of antique and historic wagons in North America. "It's nice to see some money headed to parts of the state that sometimes seem to get overlooked," commented Congressman Bishop. "These funds for projects in Summit and Box Elder Counties will go a long way in improving and increasing the infrastructure, environment, and atmosphere of these great communities."
03.23.2007	Continuing a fast-paced schedule since returning to DC, First District Congressman Rob Bishop joined his colleagues this evening in the U.S House in passing H.R. 2989, the Transportation, Treasury, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act of 2004. The measure, which passed on a vote of 381-39, contains several sections pushed by the freshman from Utah that will directly benefit northern Utah's transportation systems. The projects and funding amounts are as follows: • $1.5 million for an Instrument Landing System (ILS) at the Logan Airport in Cache County. The lack of an ILS at Logan Airport has been a significant barrier to increased charter flights and student pilot training in adverse weather conditions. It has also hampered the city's efforts to attract commercial air service. Increased charter flights and private aircraft business, as well as the probability of commercial air service and improved student pilot training, are all one step closer to reality with the funding of the ILS.• $1.0 million for an Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) upgrade for mass transit in Cache County. The software and hardware applications that will come from this funding allow mass transit vehicles to relay advanced communications between the vehicle and computers at stations or hubs, thus providing a smarter, more up-to-date transit system for local commuters. In addition to these projects targeted by Representative Bishop and specific to the First District, the appropriations bill contained millions of more dollars for proposals in Utah, including funding for ITS systems in Davis and Utah counties and additional dollars for UTA for use in transit upgrades, intermodal terminals, and statewide bus and bus facilities improvements. The legislation also contains vital funding for the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) to maintain and improve state roadways, bridges and the Federal Interstate system in Utah. "I'm glad we have had some success in securing these funds on the House side for important transportation priorities back in the District," commented Congressman Bishop after the vote. "I'm particularly excited for the funding for an ILS system at the Logan Airport and am grateful to Senator Bennett for his efforts in this regard in the Senate. Cache County needs to be able to handle increased and more active air traffic, and an ILS is the next critical stage in this development. These improvements to the airport will only serve to strengthen the economy of Cache County and the surrounding regions. The other monies to make our mass transit smarter and more efficient are dollars well spent on technology that benefits everyone statewide who rides and drives." ###
03.23.2007	Completing a process started at the beginning of this year, Freshman Congressman Rob Bishop guided to final passage yesterday his first piece of legislation in the U.S. Congress. The bill, labeled S.278 and sponsored and passed previously in the Senate by Senator Bennett, adjusts the boundaries of the Mount Naomi Wilderness Area in Cache County. Introduced by Bishop on the House side as H.R. 511 back in February, the proposal excludes approximately 31 acres in the wilderness area that contain utility lines and other developments and adds approximately 31 acres at the southern boundary to compensate for this adjustment. The close proximity of portions of the Mount Naomi Wilderness Area to the Logan City limits created some difficulty for the Forest Service to manage these lands for wilderness uses, while presenting potential problems for the city. The adjustment will exclude utility and water corridors that existed prior to the wilderness designation, and will accommodate a small portion of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail that has been proposed within this 31 acre area adjacent to Logan City. This portion of the trail would connect with a number of other trails in the Bonneville Shoreline Trail system, and would provide outstanding recreational opportunities to thousands of people each year. Serving as the sponsor and floor manager for the suspension bill on the House floor, Congressman Bishop commented Tuesday afternoon, "It feels good to have guided a bill all the way through final passage, particularly one which will solve legitimate problems in the northern end of my district. This bill provides a common-sense solution both to the utility corridor's maintenance problem and the Forest Service's management problem. I think it is a win-win situation for all those concerned with managing and protecting the land and our resources. I'm grateful to Senator Bennett for getting the job done on this issue in the Senate, and look forward to working with him on many other issues that will benefit our state." The Mount Naomi Wilderness Area, located to the northeast of Logan, Utah, was created by the Utah Wilderness Act of 1984. Encompassing approximately 44,000 acres in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest, the Mount Naomi Wilderness Area is one of the largest wilderness areas in the state of Utah and provides many recreational opportunities for the residents of Cache County and the more than 20,000 students at the neighboring Utah State University. In order to prevent a net loss of wilderness due to this boundary adjustment, the Forest Service, in consultation with Logan City and Cache County, identified a separate 31 acre parcel with wilderness characteristics located adjacent to the southern boundary of the wilderness area. This parcel will be added to the wilderness area by this legislation, thus resulting in no net loss of wilderness. ###
03.23.2007	As part of an ongoing effort to protect and enhance Utah's military installations, Congressman Rob Bishop yesterday moved a bill through a Resource Subcommittee hearing aimed at curtailing encroachments to the Utah Test and Training Range in the State's west desert. H.R. 2909, a scaled back version of a bill drafted by former Congressman Hansen in a previous session of Congress, seeks, through two separate strategies, to protect the critical military activities that take place on the thousands of square miles that make up the range. First, the legislation by the Freshman Republican would create a sizeable new wilderness area designation within and around the borders of the test and training range. The designation, which would protect certain pristine lands in their natural state, would also allow for various operations required by military trainers and testers. Second, the proposed act would forbid the Bureau of Land Management from issuing permits on certain parcels of land at the edges of the range, particularly in areas which could potentially be used by Private Fuel Storage, LLC to build a rail spur enabling a storage facility for high level nuclear waste. Congressman Bishop made the following remarks regarding the bill and hearing: "The Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR) is an irreplaceable national defense asset and I strongly believe that we must take proactive steps now to guard against encroachments which would effectively gut the range of its effectiveness." "The encroachments most likely to negatively impact the UTTR consist of environmental restrictions due to the large amount of proposed wilderness or existing wilderness study areas which underlie the UTTR's airspace, as well as the ill-advised proposal to import high-level nuclear waste for above ground storage on the Goshute Reservation directly underneath the flight path of aircraft entering the southern area of the range." "I am pleased to have introduced H.R. 2909, the ‘Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act,' along with Congressmen Cannon and Matheson in a bi-partisan manner. From the beginning, we have recognized the importance of taking these actions to help preserve the UTTR and the viability of the active-duty and reserve fighting wings stationed at Hill Air Force Base. But beyond preserving Utah jobs and missions at Hill, preserving the UTTR is absolutely the right thing to do from a national security standpoint. The Air Force has testified that there are only certain test and training opportunities on the UTTR which cannot be accomplished as effectively as anywhere else." "From the beginning, I have sought to include all potential stake holders into the formation of H.R. 2909. I have tried to include local government and state officials, private land owners, environmental groups, recreation groups, the Goshute tribe, and the affected federal agencies. This bill would take a small step forward in helping move the Utah wilderness debate forward by designating a significant portion of the Cedar Mountains as wilderness while, at the same time, ensuring that the military can continue to overfly these and other wilderness study areas within the UTTR's airspace as they have prior to the 1964 Wilderness Act." Noting that the legislation and maps connected to it are a work in progress, Mr. Bishop added that the bill will continue to be revised as it is prepared for its next legislative step, an official mark-up before the Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation, and Public Lands. ###
03.23.2007	Representative Rob Bishop (R-UT01) voted today in favor of legislation that increases the payment given to families of fallen soldiers, while at the same time making certain the whole cash amount will be tax exempt. The Fallen Patriots Tax Relief Act of 2003 boosts from $6,000 to $12,000 the financial death gratuity payment to the families of those who have lost or lose loved ones in military service to the country. The bill also corrects a previous technical oversight that prevented the payments from being fully tax-exempt. "The families of fallen soldiers deserve all the support and financial help we can give," said Congressman Bishop. The Utah Freshman, who also sits on the House Armed Services Committee, continued, "We regret the loss of any American life, but fully realize that their sacrifice was so that the lives of millions of innocent Americans can be preserved in freedom. Today's vote by Congress is a sign of our deep appreciation and thanks, and hopefully sends the message to these families that we are constantly grateful for their ultimate commitment." Historically, the "death gratuity" has been a tax-exempt gift given to the surviving family members of fallen soldiers. The original payment ceiling has been increased over the years, but due to an oversight in the tax code, the whole payment was not tax exempt. The bill passed by the House today updates the code to exempt the entire compensation amount from federal income tax. It is also retroactive to September 11, 2001 in order to provide for the families of those military personnel who lost their lives at the onset of the war on terrorism and during the military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. "During a time of crisis when a family has lost a loved one in military service, that family should not be bothered or burdened with additional tax responsibilities," added Representative Bishop. "This legislation clears away this inequity and grants additional financial assistance that is so needed for these families. I am proud of the service of our fighting men and women, and am proud of the action of Congress today in reassuring our soldiers that we will be there to assist their families when and if they make the ultimate sacrifice." ###
03.23.2007	Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT01), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced today that House and Senate negotiators have agreed to fund a $5.9 million construction project for Hill Air Force Base (AFB) in fiscal year 2004. The funding is contained as part of the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 2559, the Military Construction Appropriations Act of 2004. The money is allocated to build an AEF deployment center, a 17,000 square foot facility designed to make the storage and deployment of supplies and personnel as efficient as possible. It will store, among other things, the ‘mobility bags' sent with each service member which includes personnel and uniform gear, weapons storage, and Air Transportable Clinic (ATC) storage. It will make the time between the order to deploy and actual deployment much shorter than at present thereby enhancing military readiness. "Getting funding for this project is an important win for Hill Air Force Base," commented Congressman Bishop. "This facility will greatly increase the efficiency of shipping personnel and equipment from Hill to anywhere in the world. I am pleased that we were able to get the House and Senate conference to agree to make this a priority and move-up funding for this critical project. A large portion of the credit goes to Senators Hatch and Bennett for their efforts in securing these funds." The House had previously provided only $531,000 in planning and design funds for the project while the Senate version of the bill had included the full funding of $5.9 million. Today's conference agreement indicated the House's agreement to accept the Senate position on complete funding of the project. Bishop added, "At the present time, Hill supports over 7,500 personnel and 2.7 million pounds of cargo for deployment of 32 units on base. As we saw during Desert Storm, many hours were spent supporting actual wartime deployments from Hill. With all that is currently going on in Iraq and other parts of the world, the demands for deployment support will only increase. This military construction project will consolidate mobility operations and storage from 4 separate buildings currently and place them in an adequately-sized and efficient facility closer to the flight line. It will also improve the working environments and morale of personnel at Hill charged with these missions." One of the 4 buildings (Building 830) is actually slated for demolition because it is unsafe and deteriorated to the point of being dangerous. This new facility will make up for the loss of warehouse space that will be lost once that building is demolished. The final Conference Report, which the President is expected to sign, also includes funding for 3 additional military construction projects for Hill: • $1 million for a Munitions Maintenance Facility• $1.8 million for Small Diameter Bomb Storage Igloos• $13 million to replace outdated Munitions Storage Igloos ###
03.23.2007	In regard to the recent debate over additional waste in Utah, Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: "Public safety has always been the primary concern of my office and the entire Utah delegation. In the debate over potential waste coming to Utah, there are some groups paid to paint the most positive picture, and other groups paid to always paint the worst possible picture. Fortunately, there are impartial organizations paid to make decisions based on sound science with public safety as their number one concern. Federal organizations include the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the Department of Energy (DOE). For the state, it is the Department of Environmental Quality created by Governor Bangerter while I was in legislative leadership. All licensing and regulatory requirements made by these entities are always done by experts in the field who clearly understand these issues and are charged with ensuring public safety. Even though state and federal agencies have the expertise to make final decisions, I fully support any effort to give the state the final say regarding what will or won't be stored and regulated in Utah. The provision dealing with Ohio waste was proposed and supported by the DOE and the Bush administration. Because this is a national issue, originating from the DOE, the provision will most likely become law. To bring finality to the issue, to ensure Utah controls its waste destiny, to make decisions based on sound science, and to eliminate the emotionalism of the issue, my office is proposing the following plan of action: • We have asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to re-open and extend the public comment period on amending Envirocare's license and on the Fernald waste issue as it applies to the State of Utah. All interested parties would then be allowed to submit comments and questions for review. • We have asked the NRC to place no artificial barriers in granting the State of Utah "Agreement State" status. Utah has already applied to become an "Agreement State" under NRC guidelines, which would allow the state to have primacy over waste issues and make final determinations on what waste will and won't come to Utah. The approval of the "Agreement State" status is expected in the next few months. • We have requested and received agreement from Envirocare that the company will not bid on accepting the Fernald waste until Utah gains its primacy as an "Agreement State." The company will also delay any action until the state legislative task force, which is looking at B and C waste issues, completes its work and issues a report at the end of next year. "This arrangement basically does two things: it allows for more time for public comment and expert opinion to be gathered, and it empowers the State of Utah to control its own destiny when it comes to radioactive waste. I and my staff have reviewed with impartial experts in Utah and Washington all of the material given me. They were fully aware of all the information and understood the complexity of the issue. It is not as simple as some entities would have it appear. I still feel that the DOE proposal has merit and is safer for Utahns. When the state of Utah gets its agreement state status, and if the state thinks it's a good idea, this waste will be transported in the safest manner possible, and will be stored and regulated according to strict state guidelines that ensure the safety of all Utahns. But this is a decision that, with additional time, will best be left up to the state. The provision in the Energy Bill can move forward. It does not and never did mandate that this waste had to come to Envirocare. In fact, it empowers the plan I'm announcing today. Utah will soon gain primacy over this issue, and can then make the final decision about rejecting or accepting these mill tailings." The current debate in Utah began after the U.S. Department of Energy proposed a provision in the Energy Bill that would allow for radioactive tailings from the Fernald clean-up site to be transported and stored commercially. Noting this change would substantially improve the safety and cost of moving and disposing the waste, Congressman Bishop signed a letter in July of this year supporting the DOE proposal. Envirocare, a Tooele waste disposal and storage company with a solid health and safety record, stood to win a potential contract to handle these tailings. ###
03.23.2007	Utah First District Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT01), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, has gone on the offensive to fight a recently-disclosed proposal to close down the commissary in Dugway, Utah. The GOP Freshman questioned Dr. David Chu, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, during the latest hearing of the committee. The questions centered around a newly surfaced Department of Defense memo which targets Dugway Proving Grounds' commissary, among a host of others, for closure in Fiscal Year 2005. The memo was first referenced in a story which appeared this month in a publication called the Army Times. The memo, signed by Dr. Chu's Principal Deputy, Mr. Charles Abell, reverses the recommendation of the Defense Commissary Agency's Board of Directors by ordering the services to come up with closure plans for 19 small commissaries worldwide, including Dugway, Utah. "Since the time the story came out," said Congressman Bishop, "my staff and I have been heavily involved in contacting top Pentagon officials to try to confirm the story and to voice strong opposition. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I had the opportunity to personally question Dr. Chu when he appeared before our committee, and I got him to commit to take another look at Dugway's situation." As part of an on-going annual review process, all of the defense commissaries worldwide are examined to see if they are meeting performance guidelines and are profitable. If not profitable, then the Defense Commissary Agency (DCA) Board of Directors can recommend that a particular commissary be closed, or in the alternative, should remain open in spite of not showing a profit if any number of other exceptions are met. The criteria for those exceptions are outlined in a policy memo dated June 8, 2001 issued by Mr. Abel. They include such things as the need to support "remote and isolated" military bases, or to provide shopping opportunities for bases where no other commissary or commercial shopping is closer than 30 minutes away. Dugway clearly meets both of those mitigating circumstances. Representative Bishop continued, "It is my understanding that the DCA Board recommended to the Department of Defense that Dugway's commissary be kept open in spite of its unprofitability, mainly due to its remote and isolated condition. However, there is a decision memorandum dated August 29, 2003 in which Mr. Abel seems to contradict his earlier policy memo by requesting that plans be submitted to close multiple commissaries, including the one at the Dugway Proving Ground. He incorrectly states that these decisions are based on the ‘number of active duty personnel assigned and the proximity of a larger commissary.' This proposal was clearly not based on a sound understanding of Dugway and its needs." "At the present time, I have requested that Dr. Chu and his staff review their flawed analysis of Dugway's circumstances and have pointed out to them that: (1) Contrary to their assertion in the August memorandum, there is no other commissary located close to Dugway; and (2) There are 180 military personnel assigned to Dugway at the present time, which exceeds the previously stated 100 minimum threshold." "The bottom line is that I believe that this particular decision was made in gross error on flawed data, does not pass the common-sense test, and should be reversed as quickly as possible. I strongly oppose any attempts to close the commissary at Dugway and stand ready to do what I can with all of the tools at my disposal to make sure that the families working and living at Dugway can continue to have their most basic daily subsistence and quality of life needs met as they work to perform vital missions for our national defense." ###
03.23.2007	In response to the passage of the conference committee report on H.R. 1904, the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT01) issued the following statement: "Eight years ago I was a state legislator in Utah serving on the Federalism Task Force of the Council of State Governments. The Task Force studied and worked on many issues dealing with states rights and local control, with a heavy emphasis on natural resource and public land management. In our Fall 1995 newsletter, we highlighted five issues on which the Western States Coalition had recently adopted resolutions. They were as follows: the Endangered Species Act, Roads on Publicly Managed Lands, the Arctic Oil Reserve, Timber Reform, and Fire Risk in the Western States. Ironically enough, eight years later, I'm still working on those same issues. I'm proud of the U.S. Congress today for enacting historic legislation that deals with two of those critical priorities: forest management reform and fire prevention. The Healthy Forests Restoration Act, one of President Bush's legislative priorities, is the right thing to do in restoring sound and active management to our forests nationwide. This measure will go a long way in stemming the tide of forest fires that have ravaged the West. Local experts and professionals will now be empowered with the tools and flexibility they need to wisely manage our forests. This is good policy for protecting the environment and safeguarding our valued resources." ###
03.23.2007	Utah's First District Congressman, Rob Bishop, joined the Utah delegation to vote for an anti-"spam" bill (Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003) in this session of Congress. In view of his opposition to the hypocrisy, cost and over-burdensome government regulation mandated by the passage of anti-telemarketing legislation, Congressman Bishop decided to vote for the anti-"spam" legislation because of the following differences in the two means of communication and the bills involved: 1. A disproportionate amount of electronic "spam" messages are highly sexually suggestive. Testimony in Congress related that 20-30% of all "spam" messages contain sexually explicit content. There are no appropriate filter methods to gage the maturity of the recipient of such communication. Telemarketers may be annoying, but the Congressman has never received a single telemarketing call with a sexually oriented solicitation. 2. The bill passed by Congress does not automatically create new rules and a so called "do-not-email" list. The bill simply authorizes the FCC to create rules within the next six months to filter "spam". Congress will then have no less than three months to review and accept or reject the rules. The FCC is not even mandated to adopt rules. The FCC is given the latitude to decide if proposed rules are necessary, enforceable and economically practical. The FCC could then report that implementation of any rules is deemed unworkable. 3. Thousands of "spam" messages can be created by a single individual at a computer. There is no "spam" industry that creates a large number of entry-level jobs for students or those in need of employment. 4. There is no viable private sector solution to filter unwanted "spam" messages going to children of families who find sexually suggestive "spam" unwelcome. Congressman Bishop commented, "This legislation was not a panacea. I philosophically object to the practice of Congress creating an idea and then turning said idea over to a bureaucratic body to create rules of implementation. Congress should bear the responsibility of creating the details of a program before enacting a law. To do otherwise is to abrogate legislative responsibility to the executive branch. But since the legislation enacted does not mandate action by the FCC and gives Congress time to review any rules promulgated, and since a viable private sector alternative is lacking, I voted to allow this process to go forward. ‘Spam' is a problem that needs fixing and we're now headed in that direction." ###
03.23.2007	Utah Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT01), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued today the following statement regarding the capture of Saddam Hussein in Iraq: "This is an historic day for the Iraqi people, for our U.S. Armed Forces, and for the War on Terror. I commend our soldiers, intelligence agents, and our Commander in Chief on the capture of this evil dictator. At the same time, we should thank not just those that are currently serving, but the families of those who have died in this conflict whose sacrifice made today possible. Though the violence is not over, this is a huge step in bringing final peace and stability to Iraq and in fighting terrorism worldwide. Never again will Saddam Hussein torture his own people or threaten American security. And any would-be terrorist like him will now think twice, knowing the United States of America has a strong President committed to freedom around the globe and that the U.S. has the finest fighting forces in the world." ###
03.23.2007	Representative Rob Bishop (R-UT01), a former High School teacher of nearly 30 years, returns today to Box Elder High School in Brigham City, Utah to spend his Congressional Recess doing what he enjoys most – teaching American government to a classroom full of students. The U.S. House of Representatives adjourned for the year on December 8th, allowing the freshman Republican to return to his district in time to teach three advanced placement government classes for roughly a month. Before coming to Congress, Mr. Bishop taught high school for 28 years, five at Ben Lomond High School in Ogden and 23 at Box Elder High in Brigham City. He and his wife Jeralynn continue to call Brigham City home and still have two children at home who attend public schools there. "I joked last year that if I could handle a classroom of teenagers for 30 years, I could probably handle Congress. Now that I've served for one year in Washington, I'm really looking forward to getting back to the classroom. This month off from Congress is great timing for me to teach a few classes and share with these government students some of the insights and info I've picked up in Congress. I've always been convinced that education is a local issue, and leaving Washington to spend time in my old school is a good reminder to me of that. Parents, teachers, and local administrators should set our education priorities, and I'm grateful they're flexible and accommodating enough to let me return to my old stomping grounds for a month and do what I love to do – teach." Mr. Bishop will teach three A.P. government classes starting today, with each session lasting about an hour. The classes will begin every day at approximately 8:00 a.m., noon, and 1:00 p.m. With Congress expected to go back into session on January 20th, Representative Bishop will spend time in the classroom through the second week in January. ###
03.23.2007	With Congress set to reconvene on January 20th, Freshman Congressman Rob Bishop announced today a series of twelve town hall meetings he'll be hosting in the coming days. The gatherings, which will occur in nine of the ten counties contained in the First District, begin this Saturday, January 10 and run through the following Saturday, January 17 (see the full schedule below). The open forum meetings, to which all the public are invited, provide the Republican lawmaker with an opportunity to update his constituents on his activities in Congress and a chance for voters to express to him their thoughts and concerns. "We've been hosting these town hall meetings since our first Congressional break last spring," commented Representative Bishop. "I enjoy traveling our District. It's good for me to visit with folks face to face and get their input and comments firsthand." The Congressman made the first announcement of each meeting in an end-of-year newsletter sent to voters in Northern Utah. The mailer, which went to over 100,000 households in the district, highlighted some of the accomplishments of the Republican Congress and successes for the First District in particular. Each mailer also informed constituents about when Congressman Bishop would be in their area for one of the town hall meetings. This last mail piece was the latest in a series of mailers sent out throughout the year by the Congressman's office. "As a Congressional office, we're given a lump sum amount to run our office for the year," explained Bishop spokesman Scott Parker. "This money has to cover everything from salaries, utilities and rent to travel, office supplies, and hardware. Postage and mail costs also come out of this set budget. Fortunately, through the third quarter of the year, we were the 14th most fiscally conservative office of all 435 Members of Congress when it came to spending our office budget. So we had some extra resources at the end of the year, and thought a good way to use some of them would be to update constituents on Rob's activities and invite them to meet with him personally." Even after factoring in all the yearly costs of running his Congressional office, Mr. Bishop will be returning a large chunk of his annual budget. "We wanted to run a pretty tight ship and save all the money we could," added Congressman Bishop. "Even with plans in place this month to open our third Congressional office in the District, we've been able to budget wisely and will be returning about 10 percent of our office budget back to the U.S. Treasury." Parker added, "Rob has done a great job of saving taxpayers dollars, both with his votes for tax cuts and his tight office budget. Imagine if every office and agency of the federal government gave back ten percent of their budgets this year!" Each meeting is slated to last one hour. Below is the schedule by County:BOX ELDERFriday, January 16, 6:00 p.m.Tremonton City Hall102 S Tremont St, Tremonton CACHETuesday, January 13, 6:30 p.m.North Logan City Library475 East 2500 North, North Logan Tuesday, January 13, 8:00 p.m.Hyrum Civic Center83 West Main Street, Hyrum DAVISWednesday, January 14, 6:00 p.m.Kaysville Recreation Building (Old Fire Station)85 North 100 East, Kaysville Thursday January 15, 6:00 p.m.Bountiful City Hall790 South 100 East, Bountiful JUABSaturday, January 17, 12:00 NoonEureka City Hall15 North Church Street, Eureka MORGANSaturday, January 10, 9:30 a.m.Morgan County Courthouse48 W Young St, Morgan SALT LAKESaturday, January 10, 3:00 p.m.Sorenson Multicultural Center (in the Boxing Gym)855 West California Avenue (1300 South), Salt Lake City SUMMITSaturday, January 10, 12:00 NoonKamas City Hall170 North Main Street, Kamas TOOELESaturday, January 17, 3:00 p.m.Grantsville City Hall429 East Main Street, Grantsville WEBERWednesday January 14, 8:00 p.m.South Ogden City Office Building560 39th Street, South Ogden Thursday January 15, 8:00 p.m.North Ogden Municipal Building505 East 2600 North, North Ogden ###
03.23.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop responded tonight to the State of the Union address by President George W. Bush. Some of his comments are below. For additional statements or to schedule an interview, please call the numbers listed above. "The President gave us three great reminders that stood out for me tonight. First, that we have made progress in many areas, but that we have a work to do that is still unfinished. Second, that the government's greatest responsibility is to protect the American people. And third, that the moral fabric of America matters; and those institutions which build that fabric, such as families and religious congregations, must remain strong if we are to remain strong as a nation. I'm grateful we have a president who is committed to a constructive domestic agenda, is a champion of a strong national defense, and recognizes the vital role of homes, schools and religion to the future of our nation and the world. "The President reminded us that oftentimes doing what is right means doing what is hard, but ‘America has always been willing to do what it takes for what is right.' I commend his courage for doing what is right and in the best interest of our country, even in the face of harsh criticism. "Every liberal pseudo-intellectual has a field day criticizing this President. But he has again demonstrated tonight that he has a clear grasp on the needs and feelings of the typical middle-class American worker and family. In some respects, I can hardly wait for the ‘Monday Morning Quarterbacks' to spin this heartfelt and positive expression of the American will into something negative. Their comments and critiques will be forgotten, but the vision and courage of President Bush will long be remembered." ###
03.23.2007	First District Congressman Rob Bishop was appointed today as a member of a new initiative of the House of Representatives called the "Saving America's Cities" working group. The group, formed by House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, aims to develop specific policies and objectives that address the growing challenges facing cities and that encourage private sector investment in America's urban areas. Congressman Bishop, whose district stretches from downtown Salt Lake City all the way to the Utah-Idaho border in the north, was both surprised and pleased with the assignment. "I've always been proud to represent a geographically diverse and eclectic district, which includes great urban, suburban and rural areas," the Freshman lawmaker commented. "A position on this working group will give me a chance to examine issues that are critical to a good portion of my constituents. Besides, whether it's pushing for tax incentives to encourage development and hiring, working for affordable housing, or trying to ease the federal regulatory burden, many of the goals of this Congressional task force matter to every section of Utah." Representative Bishop, who resides in Brigham City, continued, "While the First District may not always be considered to be home to significant urban regions, three of the five ‘Metropolitan Statistical Areas' in Utah fall either entirely or partially in our district boundaries." The term "Metropolitan Statistical Area" (MSA), which comes from the Office of Management and Budget and is based on recent census data, is assigned to large cities that have considerable populations and to their surrounding areas that are significantly tied to that city culturally and economically. With the addition last year of Logan to the list of Utah cities qualifying as MSAs, Utah now boasts five such areas. Salt Lake City, half of which lies in the First Congressional District, and Ogden City, entirely located in Bishop's district, are also classified as metropolitan areas. Provo-Orem and St. George round out the list. "I appreciate House Leadership and Congressman Turner, a former mayor and current chair of this working group, for asking me to serve," the Utah Republican added. "They are committed like I am to helping America's cities, large and small, face their current challenges and prepare for increased economic growth and prosperity. I look forward to working with them towards this goal." ###
03.23.2007	First District Congressman Rob Bishop announced today that a federal grant in the amount of $43,920 will soon be awarded to the Smithfield Fire Department. The funding comes as part of the Department of Homeland Security's 2003 Assistance to Firefighter's program. This grant will assist the Smithfield Fire Department with training, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and wellness and fitness. "I am pleased to see that our first-responders are getting some of the assistance they need to continue to effectively protect our communities," the freshman lawmaker commented. "I cannot underestimate the importance of this program to our local fire departments in helping them to be prepared for any threat or emergency. They deserve all the thanks and assistance they can get." The Assistance to Firefighter's program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their abilities to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in their communities. For the fiscal year 2003, over $750 million was distributed in support of local departments by providing them with the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. ###
03.23.2007	In a distinct demonstration of unity and coordination, all five members of Utah's Congressional delegation announced today a joint press conference to be held tomorrow to discuss the pending round of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The details are below: Date and Time: Friday, February 20, 2004 from 2:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. MSTLocation: Old Supreme Court Chamber, Utah State Capitol BuildingTopic: Utah's military installations and the Base Realignment and Closure processParticipants: Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Congressman Rob Bishop, Congressman Jim Matheson, Congressman Chris Cannon The delegation will use this opportunity to address current congressional activities relating to Utah's military establishment and to outline a course of action for the State heading into the 2005 round of BRAC. The BRAC process is used by the U.S. Department of Defense to review and recommend military bases for closure or realignment, in an effort to reduce excess capacity, save resources and match facilities to force. Defense Secretary Rumsfeld has stated that the Department plans to use this fifth round of BRAC to close up to 100 additional military installations, or approximately 20%-25% of current base structure. ###
03.23.2007	Utah First District Congressman Rob Bishop praised a Department of Defense (DOD) decision today to place a highly-specialized Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Team in Utah to be fielded out of the Utah National Guard. Funding for 12 specialized teams was provided for in association with the Fiscal Year 2004 Defense Appropriations bill which passed the Congress last fall. Several states were in competition to be selected for one of the 12 teams, each of which is comprised of 22 team members complete with specialized skills, training and equipment to assist local first-responders in the event of WMD attacks. Utah was selected as one of the 12 additional team locations in a DOD announcement today. Congressman Bishop commented, "I am pleased that Utah has been given one of these highly-sought after specialized teams which will be available to help our local law enforcement agencies respond in the future to any terrorist attacks or threats in the Intermountain Region." "I know that the Utah National Guard will undertake this new mission with the highest level of competence and honor." "Aside from the additional military jobs and resources the WMD team will provide to the state, it will also provide critical emergency response capability for local governments in an ever-changing and complex threat environment. It makes a tremendous amount of sense for the Department of Defense to locate a WMD team in Utah because of our geographic location in the Intermountain Region as well as the presence of chemical munitions and biological agents stored on Army installations in Utah." For additional information please contact: Department of Defense: (703) 697-5131 (media)(703) 428-0711 (public / industry) ###
03.23.2007	Utah First District Congressman Rob Bishop announced today important transportation projects for Northern Utah that he helped secure as part of House passage of H.R. 3550, the Transportation Equity Act. The bill, referred to by its sponsors as TEA-LU and which passed this afternoon on a vote of 357-65, reauthorizes for the next 6 years $275 billion in overall funding by the federal government for America's transportation projects and plans nationwide, including federal highway, public transportation, highway safety, and motor carrier safety programs. The bill will translate into hundreds of millions of dollars for Utah's transportation infrastructure. In addition to working on statewide transportation priorities with the entire Utah Congressional Delegation, Representative Bishop was successful in obtaining a funding authorization for two high priority and locally significant projects in TEA-LU. Aside from providing millions of dollars which will come to the State through formula funds, this major authorization bill also allocates a portion of federal monies to smaller, regionally and locally noteworthy projects, including a couple in Utah's First Congressional District. Congressman Bishop requested and obtained authorization for the following two projects: • $3,000,000 for improvements to the Bear River Access Road in Box Elder County. The Bear River Access Road runs east from the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge to I-15 and is known as Forest Street in Brigham City. This vital road cuts across public and private lands, providing access to the Refuge. Earlier this session, Congressman Bishop was successful in obtaining the final amount of funding required to allow for construction of a Visitor Center at the Refuge. The authorized funds that will come as part of today's transportation vote will allow the Federal Highway Administration, in conjunction with Box Elder County and Brigham City, to make improvements to this road and help create an attractive gateway to the new visitor center. • $5,000,000 for improvements to State Route 158 at the Pine View Dam in Weber County. The Bureau of Reclamation recently completed seismic enhancements to the Pine View Dam, but made no significant improvements to the state highway which runs across the dam. The narrow roadway with its hair-pin turns has become increasingly unsafe for residents and visitors to the area surrounding Huntsville, Utah. Weber County leaders approached Congressman Bishop last year and asked if he'd make a request for funding to improve the road across the Pine View Dam. Bishop contacted UDOT and determined that the most preferable solution would be to construct a bridge and divert traffic off the dam. This view is also held by the Bureau of Reclamation, the Weber Basin Water Conservancy District, and Weber County. Constructing a bridge is the most expensive yet preferable option for the concerned parties. Were it not for the inclusion of this authorization in TEA-LU, a solution to this urgent road need could well be years away. Congressman Bishop's efforts get the ball rolling much more quickly and ensure this project a spot on the high priority transportation projects list in the state. Following today's vote, Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: "Improvement of Forest Street has long been a priority of county and city officials and so I'm pleased with the progress thus far to fund this significant project. Improved access to the Refuge will lead to increased visitors to this culturally and historically rich area. I'm also glad we could secure funding authorization for the Pine View road. UDOT can move forward in solving this public safety problem by constructing the most safe and cost-effective solution. "In addition to these two local projects, this transportation bill will help hundreds of millions of dollars flow into the First District and every part of the state to improve all aspects of our transportation system. It was important to pass this legislation now to keep Utah moving. I had actually hoped we could have authorized more money than the $275 billion we did today for America's roads and highways, and for improving Utah's infrastructure. Fortunately, though, this bill allows for a review in a couple of years to see if the budget then will allow us to make additional investments in transportation. I fully support more spending on transportation. Road construction and transportation improvements always mean more jobs and are the backbone of our economy. Having decent highways is about more than just moving people from point A to point B. Roughly 90 percent of what we consume everyday moves on trucks on our roads. Without a doubt, transportation is a core responsibility of the federal government. I look forward to the future and finding ways to get even more money to build new roads and repair the ones we have. Congress must help keep America rolling." ###
03.23.2007	With the U.S. House of Representatives out of session for two weeks, First District Congressman Rob Bishop announced today a series of town hall meetings to be held this week. The freshman Republican will spend three days this week meeting and talking with voters in Cache, Davis, and Rich Counties. The details of the gatherings, to which all the public are invited, are below: • Tuesday, April 13, 6:30-7:30 pmLogan High School Little Theater, 162 W 100 S, Logan • Tuesday, April 13, 8:00-9:00 pmSmithfield Fire Station, 325 W 100 N, Smithfield • Thursday, April 15, 7:30-9:00 pmDavis Applied Technology College, 550 E 300 S, Kaysville • Saturday, April 17, 3:00-4:00 pmRich County Courthouse, 20 S Main, Randolph The open forum meetings, which the former high school teacher has hosted since first being elected, provide the Republican lawmaker with an opportunity to keep voters informed on his activities in Washington and give constituents a chance to share their thoughts and concerns. Bishop spends most of his time at these meetings listening as opposed to talking. "We've tried to use every possible Congressional break to hold town hall meetings in every corner of the district," commented Representative Bishop. "These public gatherings are a great way for me to hear from constituents and stay in touch with their views and concerns. I look forward to visiting Cache, Davis and Rich counties this week." ###
03.23.2007	Washington, DC--- Utah First District Congressman Rob Bishop, a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced today that he was able to secure funding and score major victories for Utah defense interests as part of H.R. 4200, the Defense Authorization Act of 2005. The full Armed Services Committee met yesterday to formally report out the measure. The legislation, which sets policies, programs and funding levels for the nation's military, was approved late last night by a vote of 60-0 and is expected to be considered on the House floor next week. Military Construction – Congressman Bishop requested and received authorization for $4.9 million for an Operations and Maintenance Facility for the 729th Air Control Squadron, replacing an existing facility that is outdated and outgrown. In addition, Bishop was able to help protect funding in the President's request for other Hill AFB projects including: $13 million for a Munitions Storage Facility$13.1 million for a Fitness Center$1.81 million for Small Diameter Bomb Storage Igloos$1 million for a Munitions Maintenance Facility The bill also contained authorization for a $7.9 million addition to the existing Browning Army Reserve Center in Ogden. The Freshman Republican, whose district encompasses Hill Air Force Base and most military installations in Utah, commented, "This was a very tough year to get extra funds for important construction projects because of all of the competing demands during wartime. I feel good about these particular military construction projects that will help make Hill AFB more modernized and improve the quality of life for military families stationed there." Minuteman III Replacement Program – As a Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on Armed Services, Congressman Bishop was successful in fending off a proposed $80 million cut in the President's budget for Minuteman III Propulsion Replacement Program. "Some members were trolling for areas to cut to fund other projects. Since strategic missile programs are not in vogue right now with some people, Minuteman modernization became a target. I am pleased that I was able to stop that cut at both the subcommittee and committee levels," stated Bishop. Many jobs at Hill AFB and with Utah defense contractors such as ATK Thiokol rely upon this program funding. "In addition to saving Utah jobs, continuing to modernize our land-based strategic missile fleet is crucial to national security as we maintain this strong and viable deterrent on into the future. Missiles wear-out and become unreliable over time, but we're not going to build any new strategic missiles any time soon. So there is no alternative to this modernization program right now," stated Bishop. Ballistic Missile Defense – Representative Bishop successfully argued to defeat an amendment brought by Congresswoman Sanchez (D-CA) to cut $75 million from the Kinetic Energy Interceptor Program (KEI). The Congressman said, "This cut would have directly impacted workloads at ATK Thiokol and Clearfield. Again, not only would hundreds of Utah jobs have been negatively impacted, but U.S. defense posture would have been harmed. We must proceed with a robust missile defense program. I feel very good about this win." RAMOS - The Russian American Observational Satellite Program (RAMOS) is a joint U.S.- Russian cooperative program in the area of missile defense that has been in development for approximately a decade. The Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) at Utah State University has been the lead for the U.S. in developing this program. Unfortunately, the Missile Defense Agency through which RAMOS has been funded terminated the program in the FY'05 budget due to budget and technology transfer concerns, potentially cutting numerous high-tech jobs at SDL. Congressman Bishop was successful on the Strategic Forces Subcommittee in restoring $5 million for restructuring of the RAMOS effort. "The RAMOS termination was a surprise to Congress," stated Bishop. "I am pleased that we salvaged some funding for this program with Northern Utah ties. This money allows SDL additional time to hopefully restructure the Russian cooperative effort with the Missile Defense Agency and keep important high-tech jobs in Logan." Supporting the Troops and Government Employees - The bill contained $25 billion in extra funding to provide additional modernized equipment for troops in Iraq. It also contained language equalizing many of the special pay provisions between currently mobilized Guard and Reserve members and the active duty forces. Bishop stated, "These were common sense provisions which go directly to supporting our troops." Bishop also supported a compromise provision by Congressman Joel Hefley to strengthen the rights of defense civilian workers in competition with the private sector for new workloads. "This provision will help current government workers compete for contracts on a level playing field," Bishop added. Base Closure (BRAC) – Congressman Bishop joined with colleagues on the Readiness Subcommittee to include language delaying the 2005 round of defense base closure and realignments for two years. Congressman Bishop commented: "This provision may not hold up through the entire legislative process, and it doesn't necessarily add a strategic advantage to Utah's military installations, but it hopefully sends a message to the Pentagon and the Administration that Congress is paying close attention to this process to make sure they follow the law and don't go overboard with the cuts. There are some members, including me, who wouldn't mind permanently stopping BRAC altogether, and this could be a step in that direction." Government Maintenance Depots and BRAC - The House Depot Caucus, of which Bishop is a key member, included language requiring that the Department of Defense adhere strictly to industrial policy statutes (commonly referred to as the 50-50 rule) guaranteeing a minimum government maintenance depot system in any future BRAC recommendation whenever it occurs (whether in 2005 or 2007). Such a provision would greatly improve the chances of the Ogden Air Logistics Center and Hill AFB weathering a future BRAC, as opposed to possibly having workloads currently done there be outsourced to private contractors through BRAC decisions. Bishop concluded, "Jim Hansen got this 50-50 language done originally; we're just trying to protect some of his good work that benefits Northern Utah." ###
03.23.2007	Aiming to protect one of Utah's valuable military assets, First District Congressman Rob Bishop today successfully guided H.R. 2909 through the House Resources Committee. Years in the making, the legislation creates wilderness designations in Utah's west desert and seeks to block encroachments on the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR), including the controversial proposal by the Goshute tribe to store high level nuclear waste dangerously close to the range. The Bishop bill, co-sponsored by fellow Utah Representatives Cannon and Matheson, passed the Committee unanimously this morning and now heads to the House floor for further consideration. "This is a great legislative victory, and not just because it was a lot of work for a freshman member," Congressman Bishop said. "I truly believe protecting the testing range and stopping the high level nuclear waste from being near the range is in the best interest of the state and our national security. Jim Hansen understood this aspect and I'm grateful that he first made this effort and laid the ground work for this bill's success today. We would not have come this far this session without Jim's years of work on this idea in previous sessions. Defending our national security and Utah's military installations is critical." The bill, named the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act, has three main components aimed at curtailing encroachments. First, it helps guarantee the ability of the military to use and overfly the lands that make up the range, ensuring continued military readiness and national security. Second, it blocks potential attempts to build a rail spur on federal lands near the range and the Goshute reservation, thus inhibiting the nuclear waste storage facility from being built. Were the nuclear storage facility to be built, it would render nearly a third of the test and training range unusable due to the potential for accidents involving military craft. And third, to resolve potential encroachment conflicts with wilderness study areas (WSAs), the bill designates multiple parcels of land as wilderness in the area of the range. While protecting certain lands as wilderness in their pristine state, the legislation also releases a separate section of a WSA, which does not qualify for wilderness designation, and returns it to multiple use. Portions of Mr. Bishop's statement from today's committee meeting are included below: "This is a bipartisan bill that has been in the making for several years. It enjoys the support of the entire Utah delegation. It has been endorsed by the Utah Governor's Office; and is the result of a collaborative effort between the military, federal, state and county officials working in concert with a coalition of environmental groups and private property owners. HR 2909 represents the very best efforts and willing compromises of the concerned parties. "The purpose and need for HR 2909 is to protect our national security through protection of the Utah Test and Training Range. The UTTR faces a number of encroachment issues which will undermine the utility and viability of the Range. The UTTR has been described by the United States Air Force as an, "irreplaceable part of the nation's defense infrastructure," [letter dated 18 Sept. 2000 by Thomas McCall, Deputy Asst. Sec of the Air Force]. "The UTTR consists of airspace over vast tracts of public lands in the West Desert of Utah, and parts of Eastern Nevada. It has the largest continuous area of restricted airspace from ground-level to 58,000 feet in the United States; and is the only place within the United States where terrain-following cruise missiles can be tested. It also contains vast areas of military-owned land where live fire bombings and munitions testing takes place, as well as one of the few ranges with a large "footprint" of airspace allowing for testing of new long-range stand-off weapons. "However, hundreds of thousands of acres of "Wilderness Study Areas" (WSAs) and proposed WSAs underlie the UTTR airspace and ring the on-the-ground range. These WSAs are (some of) the biggest potential encroachment(s) to the UTTR. My bill represents years of negotiations with environmental groups and other concerned entities to establish...protections for the range while minimizing the impacts on military readiness and mitigating environmental concerns over management and access to these sensitive lands. "Additionally, HR 2909 takes an important step toward resolving the longstanding wilderness debate in Utah, by designating the Cedar Mountain Wilderness Study Area as Wilderness. This is the first Wilderness designation of BLM lands ever in the state of Utah and the first designation of Wilderness in 20 years." ###
03.23.2007	Republican Congressman Rob Bishop responded tonight to the State of the Union address by President George W. Bush. Some of his comments are below: "There were many issues touched on tonight. But there are principles that remain the same for this President: freedom, faith, and family. He has reminded us that, on issue after issue, we will do what Americans have always done: build a better, safer, and stronger world for our children and grandchildren. "There always seems to be one constant element with President Bush, and it was evident again tonight. Going beyond the text and words of the speech, you can sense the commitment President Bush has to the future of our country and our kids. More than his style and more than the general subject matters, his vision, I think, is the trait that allowed a majority of the country to trust him with another term. President Bush has the ability to not focus just on the narrow issues happening today, but to focus on how to make America even better for our children. Whether it's improving Social Security or helping to spread democracy around the world, the motivation is the same: to make America a safer, stronger, and better place than when we inherited it. "Besides outlining a broad vision, President Bush touched on an impressive litany of domestic issues that will move America forward. He laid out an aggressive agenda that included among other things strengthening social security, trimming the budget, limiting frivolous lawsuits, increasing health care, reforming immigration, and developing a national energy policy. I look forward to working with him to turn these ideas into realities that will benefit all Americans. "Finally, the President reminded us of a consistent foreign policy that is working. We have witnessed historic days in Afghanistan and Iraq, and his dedication to spreading freedom and democracy around the globe is producing results. America has the best military in the world and our fighting men and women deserve more thanks and credit than this nation and the world can give." ###
03.23.2007	With Congress reconvening for the start of the New Year, Speaker Dennis Hastert has announced that Republican Congressman Rob Bishop (UT01) has been appointed to serve on the powerful House Rules Committee for the 109th Congress. The appointment, made solely at the discretion of the Speaker, is one of only four additions to the Rules Committee this session. The Rules Committee, one of the four exclusive committees in the House, plays a major role in the overall legislative process through the crafting of rules, scheduling of bills, and regulating of debate. The thirteen-member committee, considered by many as an extension of leadership, is often called the "legislative gatekeeper" as it coordinates the flow of legislation and congressional business. "I'm honored with the Speaker's confidence in me to serve in this position," Congressman Bishop said. "The Rules Committee basically has to touch in some degree every piece of legislation coming to the House floor. So I look forward to working more closely with leadership and in being in a better, more influential position to represent Utah interests." After first being sworn in as a Member of Congress in 2003, Representative Bishop was fortunate as a freshman to receive the three committee assignments he initially requested: Armed Services, Resources, and Science. Due to the additional clout Rules committee positions carry, Members who serve on Rules do not serve on any other House committees. Fortunately for the sophomore lawmaker from Utah, he is allowed to go "on leave" from one committee, and not fully resign, so that he can maintain and build his seniority position. Mr. Bishop has chosen to continue to hold his seniority on the important House Armed Services Committee. Bishop added, "As a former member and Chairman of the Rules Committee in the Utah House, I know the Rules committee plays an important role in keeping the business of the House running smoothly. And more importantly, I'm excited to join Chairman Dreier in ensuring a legislative process that keeps our country strong and protects American families." Bishop spokesman Scott Parker provided the following perspective: "Rob went from sitting on three committees with fairly specific agendas and focus to sitting on one committee that sees every bill that comes before the Congress. Rob's influence here on Capitol Hill just expanded and his chances to affect legislation have increased dramatically. I know he's anxious to put that influence to work for our District." ###
03.23.2007	With the U.S. House of Representatives out for the President's Day Recess, First District Congressman Rob Bishop announced today a series of six town hall meetings to be held the last week in February. Representative Bishop, who was recently appointed to the powerful House Rules Committee, will spend three days meeting and talking with voters in Cache, Davis, and Weber Counties. The details of the gatherings, to which all the public are invited, are below: •Tuesday, February 22 6:00 pm - 7:00 pmHyde Park City Hall113 East Center Street, Hyde Park 8:00 pm - 9:00 pmHyrum Civic Center83 West Main Street, Hyrum •Wednesday, February 23 6:00 pm - 7:00 pmDavis County Courthouse28 East South State Street, Farmington 8:00 pm - 9:00 pmSyracuse City Hall1787 South 2000 West, Syracuse •Thursday, February 24 6:00 pm - 7:00 pmWashington Terrace City Hall5249 South Southpointe Drive, Washington Terrace 8:00 pm - 9:00 pmHarrisville City Hall363 W. Independence Blvd, Harrisville The open-forum, general issue meetings, which the former high school teacher has hosted since first being elected, provide the GOP lawmaker with an opportunity to keep voters informed on his activities in Washington and give constituents a chance to share their thoughts and concerns. ###
03.23.2007	Maintaining his goal to defend a national military asset, First District Congressman Rob Bishop today joined with a broad coalition in announcing the reintroduction of a House bill that seeks to protect the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR), create tens of thousands of acres of wilderness, and block the potential storage of high level nuclear waste at the proposed PFS site on the Goshute Reservation. Years in the making, the legislation creates wilderness designations in Utah's west desert and seeks to block encroachments on the UTTR, including the controversial proposal by the Goshute tribe to store high level nuclear waste dangerously close to the range. The Bishop bill, which was co-sponsored last year by fellow Utah Representatives Cannon and Matheson, passed the House Resources Committee during the last session of Congress and eventually received approval from the full House of Representatives. The announcement to reintroduce the bill was made by Bishop during a press conference held today at the Utah State Capitol. Showing broad based support for the effort, the Republican lawmaker was joined by Governor Jon Huntsman, Congressman Chris Cannon, Congressman Jim Matheson, Lt. Governor Gary Herbert, and representatives of the Utah Defense Alliance and the Utah Wilderness Coalition, including the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance. "This bill is a good example of what can be accomplished when groups and individuals work together," Congressman Bishop said. "I'm very proud of the input and advice we've received as this legislation has evolved. We would not be where we are today without the efforts of all who attended or were represented at today's event." The bill, named the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act, has three main components aimed at curtailing encroachments. First, it helps guarantee the ability of the military to use and overfly the lands that make up the range, ensuring continued military readiness and national security. Second, it blocks potential attempts to build a rail spur on federal lands near the range and the Goshute reservation, thus inhibiting the nuclear waste storage facility from being built. Were the nuclear waste site to be constructed, it would render nearly a third of the test and training range unusable due to the potential for accidents involving military craft. And third, to resolve potential encroachment conflicts with wilderness study areas (WSAs), the bill designates roughly 100,000 acres of land as wilderness in the area of the range. While protecting certain lands as wilderness in their pristine state, the legislation also releases a separate section of a WSA, which does not qualify for wilderness designation, and returns it to multiple use. "Protecting Utah's military installations and Utah's citizens is our goal," Congressman Bishop commented. "This measure can be a win-win-win situation where we create wilderness the right way, help our military readiness, and block high level nuclear waste. Though it won't be an easy task getting it all the way through both chambers this session, I'm committed to doing everything I can with this coalition to move this legislation forward. It is in the best interest of our State and it should be enacted." ###
03.23.2007	The Utah Congressional delegation announced today the inclusion of a provision in the Defense Authorization Conference Report which will protect the Utah Test and Training Range, create wilderness in Utah's west desert, and significantly impede the transportation of high level nuclear waste to Skull Valley. Years in the making, the language came from a bill introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop and co-sponsored by fellow Utah Representatives Chris Cannon and Jim Matheson. It was shepherded through the Senate by Utah Senators Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett. Below is a statement from Representative Bishop: "This bill is a good example of what can be accomplished when groups and individuals work together. We have made major progress on defending the range with over-flight protection. We have created wilderness the right way. We have moved forward in the effort to prevent nuclear spent fuel rods from reaching the Goshute Reservation. We have put another nail in the coffin of PFS, but PFS is not dead. So we must work until it is." "I'm grateful to former Congressman Hansen who first came up with this concept. Credit must be given to Senator Bennett, Senator Reid and Governor Huntsman for creating the opening for this deal and to Senator Hatch and Senator Ensign for closing this deal. Our entire delegation has worked tirelessly together, with heavy involvement from Congressman Matheson and Congressman Cannon. We also appreciate the way the entire Nevada delegation and House Leadership has worked with us, and the support we received in this effort from various environmental groups, including the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance." Congressman Cannon added, "This is a significant step for our state. Our entire delegation has been working on this, but there is still a lot of work yet to be done. We're not going to stop until we kill this thing once and for all." The measure, originally named the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act, consists of three main components. First, it helps guarantee the ability of the military to use the airspace over the range, ensuring continued military readiness and national security. Second, it blocks potential attempts to build a rail spur on federal lands near the range and the Goshute reservation, thus hampering the nuclear waste storage facility from being built. Other routes still exist. And third, the plan designates roughly 100,000 acres of land as wilderness in the Cedar Mountain area of the range. The language will now be included in the final version of the annual Defense Authorization bill, and should be voted on soon by both Houses of Congress where it is expected to pass easily. The President has indicated he will then sign it into law. ###
03.23.2007	President Bush late today signed into law H.R. 1815, the National Defense Authorization Act, which included a provision by Utah Congressman Rob Bishop aimed at blocking the PFS proposal to store nuclear waste on the Goshute Reservation. Years in the making, the Bishop language will protect the Utah Test and Training Range, create wilderness in Utah's west desert, and significantly impede the transportation of high level nuclear waste to Skull Valley. Below are reactions on today's Presidential action and the defense bill becoming law: Representative Rob Bishop: "This idea has been worked on for years, going back to Jim Hansen's efforts, so it feels good to finally see it become law. This proposal always had three important elements. It protects the test and training range, which is key to national security and military preparedness. It creates wilderness the right way. And it substantially hinders the transportation of high level nuclear waste to the Goshute Reservation. I'm proud of our delegation and Governor who worked together at every level to finally get this done. The key support we had from Congressional Leadership and outside groups also cannot be overlooked. This was a good team effort and good policy, and I appreciate the President signing it into law." Bishop spokesman Scott Parker: "I really think this represents the single largest legislative victory against efforts to bring nuclear waste to Utah's west desert. PFS isn't completely dead, but this is the biggest nail in the coffin to date. Rob has worked tirelessly on this effort since his first day in office, but this isn't just a major win for him, it's a victory for our entire state and our military." ###
03.23.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives passed today, by a margin of 216-214, the final version of the Deficit Reduction Act, which will reduce government spending and cut the deficit. By slowing the growth of federal outlays and reforming portions of the government's annual mandatory spending, the overall bill will save taxpayers nearly $40 billion over the next five years - about $300 per taxpayer. Congressman Bishop issued the following statement following the vote on the House floor: "I host a lot of town hall meetings. Reducing spending and cutting the deficit are themes I hear constantly from constituents, and I agree with them. It's high time we slowed down out of control federal spending. This deficit reduction act is the right thing to do, and demonstrates discipline and responsibility with the taxpayers' money." "Let's not forget, we aren't cutting spending with this bill – we are simply reducing the rate of growth. We're still going to spend overall more next year than this year, but this is a step in the right direction of getting our fiscal house in order." ###
03.23.2007	With Congress still organizing as it starts a new session, Republican Congressman Rob Bishop (UT01) announced today that he has been appointed to positions on the Armed Services Committee, Resources Committee, and Education & Workforce Committee. These three committees, all of which handle issues directly tied to and impacting Utah, topped the list of Congressman Bishop's requests for assignments in the 110th Congress. "This is good news for me, and hopefully good news for our district" Congressman Bishop said. "With the majority of Utah's military structure and personnel in the First District, being on the Armed Services Committee is critical. There are good things to be done for Hill Air Force Base, for our other installations, and for those who fight to keep us safe and free, and the Armed Services Committee is where I need to be right now to do that." The spot on Armed Services represents a return to that panel for the 3rd term lawmaker. Representative Bishop held a seat on that committee during his first term, but went on leave from the committee for his second to serve on the exclusive House Rules Committee. He returns now with his seniority intact. The powerful House Armed Services Committee, the largest authorizing committee in Congress, is responsible for funding and oversight of the Department of Defense and the United States Armed Forces. The committee has jurisdiction over the nation's entire multi-billion dollar defense budget, including spending and issues affecting America's military installations, personnel, procurement, military research, development and readiness. As part of the announcement today, Mr. Bishop also indicated he has earned positions on the House Resources Committee and the House Education and Labor Committee. In response to these posts, the representative from northern Utah commented, "These committees affect Utah, for better or worse, and so I want to make sure those impacts are positive. With all the public lands in Utah, the Resources panel plays a key role in the future of our state. And as a former teacher and resident of a state that cares deeply about educating its kids, I hope the Education Committee will be a helpful spot to be as well." Congressman Bishop will jump back into committee work immediately, with the most time-sensitive and significant work coming first in the Armed Services Committee. That group will meet today to hear testimony from Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on the way forward in Iraq. ###
03.23.2007	As Congress enters its second full week of the new session, Congressman Rob Bishop announced that he has been appointed as the ranking member on the National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee of the House Natural Resources Committee. Though only in his third term, the appointment makes Representative Bishop the top Republican member of this congressional panel. Congressman Don Young of Alaska, who serves as the ranking Republican member on the full Resources Committee, made the selection. The Parks and Public Lands subcommittee maintains a sizeable jurisdiction, including issues such as the management and use of public lands and forests, the maintenance of the country's national parks and trails systems, the administration of wilderness and national heritage areas, and the preservation of grazing, access and water rights on federal lands. The panel also has jurisdiction over various agencies of the Department of Interior and the Department of Agriculture, including the Bureau of Land Management which controls vast land holdings in Utah. "With the feds controlling practically two-thirds of our land in Utah, I'm happy with this assignment to the public lands subcommittee, particularly in terms of what can be done for the state and its citizens," Congressman Bishop said. "There are always public land issues going on in Utah, where so much is affected, for better or worse, by federal land policies. Being the ranking Republican on the subcommittee that deals directly with these problems will be helpful. With Congressman Cannon still chairing the Western Caucus, hopefully we're in the right spots to defend Western interests and values, as well as promote general land policies which just make sense and will help America." ###
03.23.2007	Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R – Utah) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R – Utah) announced that they have introduced legislation to transfer more than 100 acres of federal land to Park City to be used for open space and public recreation. The parcels of land, commonly known as White Acre and Gambel Oak, are currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The land transfer would add significantly to city-owned open space within Park City. The earlier version of the bill, H.R. 3462 from the previous Congress, cleared the House last year, but did not come up for a final vote in the Senate. The bill has now been reintroduced in both chambers. "From the start, we've had three goals with this bill," Bishop said. "First, we need to settle long-term concerns over the future of these lands. Second, this bill seeks to preserve some important open space. And third, control and access for these lands need to be in the hands of those closest to it, the leaders and citizens of the city." "One of the reasons Park City is such a haven is its careful management of development and open space," Hatch said. "This bill gives Parkites the local control they want to plan their own community for the future. We don't want to lose skiers or other tourists to Vail or Aspen because we didn't do enough for Park City." In 1975, the BLM completed a comprehensive study of BLM lands in and around Park City. As part of the study, several parcels of land were identified as suitable for disposal or transfer to other entities. Nearly 30 years have passed since the completion of the study. Meanwhile, development in and around Park City has increased the value of the cited lands and the value of and need for open space. Consistent with these goals and with the help of Park City leaders, two parcels of land were identified for conveyance. Bishop, who originally announced the legislative concept during a town council meeting in Park City, expressed gratitude for the hard work of city leaders and other parties involved. Bishop commented, "This has been a team effort from day one, and it has taken a lot of hard work and negotiation already. The contributions of Park City leaders and others interested in this outcome have been critical. They deserve to have this land transfer enacted." The Gambel Oak parcel, with 88.5 acres, and the White Acre parcel, containing 20 acres, are both located within the Park City limits and are surrounded by development. Preserving them as open space preserves the unique view shed and leaves the land open for wildlife habitat and recreation. Language in the bill states that all land must be maintained as undeveloped open space and be available only for public recreation purposes. Additionally, Park City may construct necessary recreational facilities on the land, such as signs, needed utilities, and trails. The bill also directs the Secretary of Interior to offer for sale, through a competitive bidding process, two other specified parcels of BLM property in Park City. The proceeds derived from this sale will go towards environmental restoration projects on lands within the BLM Salt Lake City Field Office. ###
